ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59099	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the 15th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 83 peoples. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 93 MPs are present in the hall. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wants to request an explanation or a notice. Alexander Seselj, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59100	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, three years ago, we had our first announcement from the vice prime minister of the Republic of Serbia and Foreign Minister Dacic, that Serbia would grant members of the Russian-Serbian humanitarian centre in Nis diplomatic status for, of course, a symbolic gesture for their participation in the rescue of Serbian citizens from the mass fires and floods we had in Serbia over the past years. We saw that it suddenly became a parexelic political issue and that the announcement of the minister stopped. I ask the question to Mrs Ani Brnabic – when will the Government of the Republic of Serbia grant diplomatic status to members of the Russian-Serbian humanitarian centre, such as members of the government, i.e. Ministers in Government have announced several times already? I would remind you that the ruling majority and the SNS are very often praised in public that relations between the Republic of Serbia and the Russian Federation are on the historical level, as the president of the Republic met 15 times with Russian Federation President Vladimir Putin, and then we see that there is some problem in granting diplomatic statutes to members of the Russian-Serbian humanitarian centre. Mrs. Brnabic should explain to the public what the problem is, what is so problematic about all this, and I will remind you that the Russian Federation is the most important, sincerest friend of Serbia, a country that defends the interests of the Republic of Serbia in the UN Security Council, which is fighting the reception of so-called. The Republic of Kosovo to the UN. They were always our allies in all our fields. Many contracts have been signed between Serbia and Russia, primarily concerning railway infrastructure. The largest contribution to the budget of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. has the most successful, perhaps, privatisation in the last 20 years, privatisation of the oil industry of Serbia, owned by Russian owners, i.e. ‘Gasprom Njeft’. What is most important of the world and why we have a moral obligation to do such a single gesture is that three years ago, the Russian Federation prevented the UN from making a resolution through the Security Council on a proposal from the United Kingdom that declared Serbia and Serbs genocide. Many more inventions about mass rapes of children around BiH, so I really think the public must be informed about this issue. I will also remind you that the SRS has collected more than 30,000 signatures on the territory of the province of Vojvodina for the establishment of such a centre on the territory of Vojvodina, and that the progressive majority in the province's Assembly has never put the proposal on the agenda. I will also remind you that NATO members of the NATO mission in Serbia, except that they have an office of the Ministry of Defence, have diplomatic status, a smooth passage through the Republic of Serbia, have been freed of any taxis, taxes, tolls and all other things, and these are the members of the organisation have beastly bombed Serbia for 78 days. I also have one question for Mrs Gojkovic, the president of the National Assembly, has she been informed since we saw her inform herself from the media, has she been informed that Snow White Chongrad's journalist "Today" has announced that Serbia has committed genocide in Srebrenica and that "The Women in Black" are elite in Serbia?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59101	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Bojan Bagica.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59102	Thank you. Dear Presidents, I will ask several questions to the Republic Government, the Ministry of Justice, the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office, the Ministry of Finance, the Tax Administration, the Ministry of Culture and Information, the Agency for Business Registers, as well as REM. Number one, is N1, Nova S and Sport Club broadcasting domestic or foreign broadcasters? Where exactly are these TV programs being broadcast from? Did the competent authorities include REM and did they carry out a verification of the alleged headquarters of those broadcasters as well as the places from which those programmes are broadcast in Luxembourg? Did the competent authorities including REM carry out a check on allegations that these programmes are being broadcast from studies in Belgrade and that REM monitors these channels, or operators re-emissioning these programmes? Do N1 broadcasters Nova S and Sport Club have the necessary permits to broadcast television according to positive legal requirements in Serbia? Do the N1, Nova S and Sports Club respect all legal regulations and pay the prescribed fees? If they're paying, I'd ask you to answer me what fees and who they pay and, of course, what amount, and if they don't pay, I'd ask for answers on what basis they don't pay? Next question, are the N1, Nova S and Sport Club broadcasters listed in the APR-run media register? Are TV broadcasters N1, Nova S and Sport Club Tax Bonds in Serbia and do they meet all their obligations as a whole? Do these above-mentioned broadcasters pay SOKOJ and OFFS compensation in what amount and if they do not pay on what basis they are exempt from payment fees? What have the competent public authorities, including the Competition Protection Commission, done on advertising broadcasts in these calls for foreign TV channels, since the Law on Electronic Media prohibits changing the original content of the programme re-emissioned in Serbia, and these calls cross-border channels continue to broadcast multiple EPP blocks throughout the day, and why has none of the competent state authorities ordered cable operators to shut down all cross-border channels that violate the law and did not initiate legal proceedings against the responsible persons? In what way did REM find that N1, Nova S and Sport Club are not domestic channels, i.e. they are cross-border, and that there are no domestic ads on these channels that, apart from them, all citizens of the Republic of Serbia see? Have the authorities taken steps, if not, when they will do so, to determine whether they are on cross-border channels whose seats are abroad, N1, Nova S and Sport Club, possibly interrupting the original signal that goes from the master abroad and inserting commercials in Serbian? If this happens, who does and when will take appropriate steps and take action against responsible persons? I will remind the competent authorities that the Law on Electronic Media regulates the area of re-emission by means of the re-emission provisions and at the same time the broadcasting of software content without change, termination, insertion of any other content, contribution, section, advertising, advertising and reporting. Article 46 of the same law guarantees freedom of reception of media services from other countries guaranteed by confirmed international contracts to the Republic of Serbia, and Article 100 provides for the supervision of broadcasters to be carried out by REM. It is also prescribed that the operator is required to distribute media services, radio and TV broadcasting at the same time and completely unchanged, as prescribed by the regulator to monitor and ensure compliance with the obligations of operators prescribed by the provisions of this member in co-operation with RATL. According to the Advertising Act, Article 74 paragraph 2 provides that the supervision of the application of the law on advertising is to be carried out by an electronic media regulatory body known as REM, and the Convention on Cross-border Television precisely regulates the area of re-emission of cross-border channels. How the possible violation of these rules, as well as of the rules governing the issue of tax and other obligations, can be an operation of a series of commercial offences and essential features of a series of criminal acts being prosecuted by official duty, I expect that unless all the knowledge which has the competent authorities in determining the facts and assessments of whether or not there are elements for the initiation of criminal and criminal proceedings, to do so as soon as possible, as well as to treat these issues as breaking and criminal charges against the responsible persons against these three broadcasters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59103	Thank you. The word is Alexander Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59104	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen, the parliamentary group of the Modern Serbian Party will have two questions addressed to ministers in the government of the Republic of Serbia. The first question is referred to the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications. The New Market City Assembly made a decision restricting the sale of alcoholic beverages between 20 hours and probably six or seven in the morning. Although we have had similar attempts throughout Serbia, one of the most famous was in Belgrade, and that decision has, fortunately, been abolished, many times the Constitutional Court has shown that the decision creates one big problem, for the simple reason not only forbidding minors and some other groups that could cause objective problems with alcohol consumption in the night hours, but also for all citizens to buy alcoholic beverages and also for traffickers to lose. Analysis of the employers' associations at Belgrade level showed how harmful the decision on night prohibition was for the development of trade, and on the other hand was unusually useful for the development of catering facilities that had more traffic at night than they would have had if there were no breach of the principle of freedom of trade. Therefore, my question is not whether the Ministry of Trade will intervene for five days to postpone the decision, but the question is why is Article 43. The law on trade retains the right to trade facilities, although it is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, to set a certain period during the day when certain goods that can have an important impact on public order and peace cannot be sold. Taxes in the law include alcoholic beverages and beer, pyrotechnics and the like. The measure itself cannot in any way lead to the reduction of the problems caused by alcohol consumption, who wants to do this can buy it nine hours ago, can drink at home, can get alcohol in any other way. However, it opens up two major problems. The first problem that arises is that the state sets itself up as a mother and father to adulthood and determines the lifestyle it will have and, in some ways, deny their freedom to buy goods and services that are not prohibited from traffic, nor require any special permits. In the current legal system of the Republic of Serbia, any trader can sell alcoholic beverages. Another thing, once that possibility is opened, it is possible that someone will think wisely tomorrow, for example, of banning the sale of oil derivatives because people can drive cars quickly at night or ban anything that makes local self-government useful. We have had experience from some much better market democracies that have shown how wrong any form of prohibition and leads to misbehaves, do not achieve the effects that are sought, except, of course, the effect of increasing the traffic of commercial objects. The second question is to refer to the minister of traffic. Namely, it's been called and in progress, now an unexpected winner has already appeared in the tender for subsidized aircraft lines from Nis, unexpectedly, it would never have been hit, in the tender the only conditions have been met by "Er Serbia". What arises as a problem in the whole story, a line of public importance, as stated in the call and said in the conditions under which "Er Serbia" won the tender for 10 lines from the city of Nis, is that this decision by the Government of the Republic of Serbia is based on a European directive that says there are lines of public importance, but that must be lines connecting the centre of a country with remote regions of the country, such as the remote islands, regions that cannot be reached by car and the like. Of all the subsidized lines, in this way in European traffic, aircraft, almost 95% are national lines, are not lines for Bologna, for Malme, for Salzburg and similar places, but could be the only line of Belgrade – Nis, which we can currently have, or perhaps Kralje – Nis, the others currently have no opportunity to have, and cannot possibly be lines to abroad. Also, Nis is not in any way a remote and undeveloped area of the Republic of Serbia so she can fall under the regime. Therefore, my question – is this how by promoting lines of public importance we continue to subsidise "Er Serbia", even though it is not allowed under EU rules? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59105	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59106	Thank you. I have two questions. First it goes to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and second it goes to the Ministry of the Interior. This first concerns issues that I regret to repeat, I mean, I do not repeat the question, but is the structure of the issue the same or similar - is it also what the Foreign Ministry is intending to do about the systematic statements of the first or leaders of the Republic of Croatia on the decision of the Constitutional Court of Croatia on the rights of the Serbian national minority in Vukovar, the reactions of the official, not some adventurer, not some marginal opposition party, not some journalist or columnist, but the first people of the neighbouring state, beginning with the mayor of Vukovar, Mr. Penava, then President of Kolinda Grabar Kitarović and Prime Minister of Plenkovic? So, both Penava, and Mrs Kitarović and Plenkovic, in different ways alone, actually say the same thing. Mrs. Kitarovic directly opposes the Constitutional Court's decision to return the Cyrillic to Vukovar, Mr. Plenkovic is pleased because the decision is still not binding in that ultimate way, while the mayor of Vukovar, Penava, is now giving some interpretation of the events of the 1990s with a problematic conclusion for any legal state, especially the EU member of the EU that should not be exaggerated from minority rights, in order to make international relations worse, meeting the Constitutional Court's decision. So, I think that our Foreign Ministry is bound to, without some big campaign, the big words of certain ministers, as it has been so far, which mean nothing, and only pours oil on fire, but to officially ask questions about the reactions to those decisions of the leaders of the Republic of Croatia, in such a way as any serious country would do when it comes to members of their people anywhere in the world. I think that's how Serbia should react, therefore, without pouring oil on fire, but resolutely and diplomaticly responsible. My second question goes to the MUP and BIA address and concerns texts in several versions that have recently appeared in Serbian media on a plan "Omca", "Omca for Serbia", an alleged secret plan of NATO's leading states, which says a special war is being waged against Serbia, that the West has launched, quotes, "Omca Operation", in which a plan for Serbia's collapse has been elaborated. It is clearly said that "Omca" really exists, that it has recently been launched, that "Omchu" has begun to strain governments and intelligence services of NATO's leading states, relying on governments and intelligence services in our environment, that foreign intelligence services will not give up, that even assassinations and political killings can be expected, while as handsome candidates mentioning some leaders of opposition parties and critics of the government, that the Serbian government is then allegedly being charged with it and, finally, that the Western forces, primarily the United States and Great Britain, will continue to support Serbia with the methods of special war. I don't ask and I don't call for the responsibility of newspapers or journalists, I, as a MP, just expect the MUP to provide information on whether such a plan... Is there any indication that there is a "Omca" and why we are melting so hard in front of our supposed foreign friends, why the whole session with Mr. McCron if there is any indication that such a plan exists? Is it just public harassment, which should also be said out loud and loud, or is the danger real, and then we should mobilize in the resolution of that danger all together? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59107	Thank you. The word is by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59108	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will ask two questions, the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Agriculture, and this is about the following. In recent years, we have been faced with a very serious problem that not only affects the environment, but represents an illegal use of natural resources. It is an illegal separation of sand and gravel from water streams across Serbia, which unfortunately is tolerated in some cases by competent authorities, leaving it suspected that it is linked to corruption. This gravel is used as building material, and a large number of illegal pebbles are rich in this way without paying compensation. In 2018, we know that the Law on compensation for the use of public goods and these charges include the compensation for water, i.e. the compensation for the exploitation and separation of sand and gravel from the watercourses. Uncontrollable separation of sand and gravel results in major disturbances in water streams, environmental disturbances and living worlds, and there are many examples that due to uncontrollable extraction of sand and gravel, floods and collapses of agricultural land along rivers. A drastic example of this is the disrupted environment in the Drina River area, where the uncontrollable exploitation of sand and gravel makes the most fertile land disappear overnight. We know about the farmer's case that Drina took about three acres of farmland without anyone making up for that damage. There are examples like this in other parts of Serbia, especially in the waters of Great Morava and South Morava. In this regard, I would like to ask the Minister of Finance whether since the adoption of the Law on compensation for the use of public goods, there has been an increase in the control and payment of compensation for the exploitation of gravel and sand from water streams and the control of gravel and the legality of their work? I would ask the Minister of Agriculture the questions of the water industry if there is a record of agricultural areas at risk of legal and illegal exploitation of gravel from water streams and whether measures are being taken to prevent illegal exploitation and what activities are being taken to compensate farmers for the damage they suffer from illegal exploitation of sand and gravel? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59109	Thank you. The word is made by MP Marko Parezenović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59110	Thank you, esteemed chairman. I ask the question of the Ministry of Culture and Information, the Ministry of Justice, REM, UNS and NUNS, and my question concerns the so far unremembered attempt to choke the freedom of the media and freedom of expression by Dragan Gilas, who, after a dozen lawsuits filed against his colleagues and against the media, came up with an idea completely amazing, which is that he is asking the court to ban his political opponents from mentioning his name in a negative context. So no one has ever thought of asking the court to prohibit the mention of his name and to return to the point of view. As someone who has been sued by Dragan Gilas himself, I can vividly explain to you what a trial with Dragan Gilas looks like. He appears in court and says he is against difficult words in politics and that politicians should be respected, that they should not insult one another, that they should be called thieves if they are not convicted. So if you didn't know him, you'd think he was a wonderful man. Then he has to mention the kids, how his kids are crying, how they can't get out on the street, how hard it is for him to shut up in one room and cry for days. Simply, tear to let go of how sad a story it is, and then, when the trial is over, then Drlagan Gilas hugs his palos, Jeremic, Obradovic, Veseinovic, Sergei Trifunovic, all those people who have repeatedly insulted all people in Serbia who do not think like those who call Serbian president a criminal, a thief, his family, his mother, father, son, brother. So what's common to all these people is that their political leader, Dragan Gilas, is the ideologist of such a media campaign, a man who uses other people for the dirtiest jobs, and then presents himself before the court as some innocent, kind man who wouldn't crush an ant. Can you just think for a moment of the opposite situation, that the president of Serbia is for every insult and lie he has suffered, that he has sued someone from the opposition and asked the court not to mention his name and that no one should mention his name in a negative context. You can only imagine what hysteria would be like? Well, we'd be the biggest dictators, the greatest fascists. We'd be hanged here in the Terrace if only someone thought it was the way he was suffocating media freedom. When Dragan Gilas does that, when Dragan Gilas threatens to take away their national frequencies, then no one has any problem with it. About how Dragan Djilas understands the media and how he observes democracy, Verica Barac, then chairman of the Anti-Corruption Council, spoke back in 2011. I will quote only one part of her report, to see how Dragan Gilas understands the media and democracy in Serbia. "Somehow in Serbia the most powerful in the media sphere are also the closest to the state summit. Two very close men to the president of Serbia, Shaper and Gilas, have established complete control of the media space through their media companies." She added that Belgrade's mayor and vice president, DS Dragan Gilas, has two media firms through which money channels and advertising purchases and other media influences are going. When we tried to talk about it, it ended with ignoring and what does it matter? It has nothing to do with us, Verica Barac said, adding that with such controlled and captured media there is no talk of an effective fight against corruption, as the media only reports what the government wants to hear. So you can best see from these reports what media freedoms were like in Serbia 2010/2011. the year Dragan Gilas ran the media in Serbia. So I'm asking all the institutions I mentioned at the beginning, what exactly are you going to do to protect freedom of expression and freedom of the media in Serbia? What will you do specifically to get in the way of pressures and blackmails suffered by different media and individuals by Dragan Gilas, who has become so rich and ossion that he has lost all contact with reality and apparently believes he is allowed to do anything. What I can say on my behalf and on behalf of my colleagues, there is no lawsuit, no pressure that will prevent us from talking about it, all the Sundays of Dragan Gilas and that will prevent us from talking about how he has become one of the richest people in this country over the back of Serbia. When you hear Dragan Gilas say he's very honest, that nothing against him has ever been proven, well, it sort of works like this, for all the dirty jobs he's been doing he's always used some other people for those jobs. Well, then, for example. in the machinations during the reconstruction of the Bulevar King Alexander was not arrested Dragan Gilas, he was not wearing a leg and not being tried today, but being tried by Alexander Bjelic, the then city manager, who was doing dirty work for Dragan Gilas, and we all know that no one who was then an official in the City of Belgrade could do anything without the knowledge and approval of Dragan Gilas. That's how he turned out to be honest, and he put misery on his neck to other people.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59111	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. Thank you. We're continuing our work. We move on to a common, principled single search on the drafts of the law referred to in points 2 and 3 of the agenda. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that today the sittings are attended by the Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure, Prof. Dr. Zorana Mihajlović, Aleksandra Damnjanović, State Secretary at the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure, Jovanka Atanacković and Djordje Milic, Assistant Minister of Construction, Transport, Infrastructure. I am asking MPs' groups if they have not already done so to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(2) and Article 170(1), Rules of Procedure, I am opening a joint, principled and uniform search on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on specific conditions for the implementation of the housing project for members of the Security Forces and the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on the establishment of common control at the border crossing for international road transport Presevo, the Republic of Serbia-Tabanovce, the Republic of Northern Macedonia. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? Yeah. Professor Zorana Mihajlović has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59112	Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, Vice-Presidents, dear MPs and MPs, you have before you a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on special conditions for the implementation of the housing project for members of the Security Forces. We have started an important and large project, but on the territory of the Republic of Serbia in four cities, it can be said, work is almost done. In two cities, the public call process is under way. Our plan is to build 8,022 apartments in the first phase for security forces. But we came to the conclusion by doing this project and implementing this project in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that it is really necessary to expand, therefore, the persons who have the right to also be part of this project. These are primarily fighters, members of a fallen fighter's household, wartime disabled and, of course, peacetime military people with disabilities. This is the basic reason why you are actually facing a proposal to amend this law, with one more note, given that many would like to buy these apartments, since these are not any social housing, this is not a gift for the apartments, since many would like to buy, above all, apartments in the territory of the City of Belgrade, we also felt that one of the changes must be a priority for those who are registered to live in Belgrade's territory first. Only when all this is over can those others who are not registered on Belgrade territory be able to also build their own apartments. What I want, too, to inform you because this is an important opportunity and this is an important project for the Republic of Serbia, is important not only because we are going to build apartments and thus repay all those who defend and work for our country, but it is equally important for the economy of our country, for the growth of GDP, to create opportunities for small and medium-sized enterprises to participate in the construction of these apartments, which is also seen by who is applying for public calls and who also gets in tenders to build apartments. I want to inform you that in Vranje 186 apartments, in Nis 190, in Kralje currently 200, in Kragujevac 2016, in Novi Sad it will be 548, Sremska Mitrovica 190. So we're already starting with 1.530 apartments. We expect to start building a total of 8.022 apartments this and next year. The value with full infrastructure is 325m euros. The state provided local self-government with money to fix the infrastructure, or external infrastructure. So these buildings are located in good places, with arranged infrastructure, with kindergartens, schools, whatever it takes to exist as content if one building is built, one or two buildings, if they need to meet, first of all, the standard of living citizens. Prices in euro per metre square, together with, plus of course VAT, for Vranje is 400 euros, Nis 450, Kraljevjevac 400, Kragujevac 430, Novi Sad 500, Sremska Mitrovica 430 and Belgrade 500. In any case, I believe that today we will be able to talk and why we have extended these conditions, and I also think it is very important that everything that we have in dynamics predicted when we talk about the realization of such an important project, we do indeed. I had a chance to visit the construction site in Vranj a few days ago. So 50% of the dynamics of the works are complete. The second draft law is ahead of you on confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on the establishment of joint controls at the border crossing for international road traffic Presevo-Tabanovci. No matter how much we invest in infrastructure and build roads and railways we reconstruct and connect with the region, what exists as a problem and which feels every year, it's not just a matter of summer periods, it's so-called. "non-physical barriers", i.e. long waiting at the borders, which especially for freight traffic, appear on average sometimes between 10 and 15 hours. Right now in Horgos, Batrovci as well as down at Dimitrovgrad, there's really a lot of traffic, and that's one of the reasons why you started talking to governments like this, how to do somehow one border control, of course customs, borders and all that's necessary. One of these agreements on the initiative of our president, Alexander Vukic, is precisely this agreement that has been confirmed in parliament, and this is now the bill to confirm such an agreement. We think that this will also make it easier for international road transport, i.e. making it easier to cross the border. Also, I would like to inform you this time that we are in favour of expanding capacity both in Horgos, both down and in Dimitrovgrad. We've expanded our capacity in the Batrovs, and we expect that in the next period, we'll cross all borders, we'll establish one control, one place where we'll have control of both sides, whether you're going in or out of a country. I believe that these are important amendments to one law, or ratification, or confirmation of an agreement between the two governments. I believe, too, that we will have a successful and good debate. We are ready to see through the amendments to the previous law, can we further improve things? I believe, too, that we will, of course, adopt these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59113	Thank you. The word is Alexander Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59114	Dear Minister, with associates, ladies and gentlemen, these two laws don't make any epochal changes, but they deserve to be said a few things that, at least we in the SMS group think are important. To start with this law that has a little less meat, which is to be discussed, it is an integrated border crossing, which is actually a shame that we as a country, and our neighbours, have not gone to the process before, because the losses that occur both in goods transport and in passenger transport, due to too long waiting at the borders, are largely endangering Serbia's competitiveness, but also our neighbours. In a way, investments that you, for example, invest in a highway or in a highway, will in some way not have so quickly paid off, for the simple reason that sometimes you choose mileage, sometimes you choose the available time. On the other hand, every integrated transition is a good thing, both because of the operation of traffic, and because of the reduction of the possibility that, let's put it on condition, there is a different treatment of certain things at the border crossings, which consist, for example, of avoidance of customs duties, payment of VAT and similar things. With integrated control, it goes much, much harder. On that side, we should continue to introduce integrated transitions with all our neighbouring countries, because it's a good way to do something about raising our competitiveness. Of course, love takes two sides. We need a lot of love, though, because we have a lot of neighbors, but we need something to start. As for the second law, which concerns building apartments for members of the security forces of the Republic of Serbia, these changes should in some way be the essence of the law, I will now say why. Even yesterday in the debate, when we were discussing another matter, when I didn't answer, because I didn't have to say something very new in the end and without having to repeat myself after a relatively correct discussion, with a lot of arguments, any thing you can look at at at first sight and look at systemically and think about what you each see when you're passing a law, and what are the consequences in some period that's a little longer. And that's how I'm looking at this addition to the law that we discussed, it's been over a year, a little stronger than a year, if I'm not mistaken, it was spring last year. On the one hand, it is indisputable that when you observe to arrange the state, you can have a different attitude. If you love freedom, if you believe in entrepreneurship, if you believe in spontaneous human interactions, you will seek to see as much as possible how to locate the private sector. If you believe more in the state, collectives, you'll want to move more things to the state. It's one ideological difference and everyone will say it's right when they're properly looking at the world around them. However, regardless of whether you're in the centre, it means that you're more about the market deciding, or how important you are to one society, or whether you're more about state and state intervention, you love the collective, everyone will agree that the indisputable function of the state is the protection of private property, both from the attack on the inside and from the possible attack on the outside. The primary function of each country is to protect freedom and legal order in it, and there is no serious ideology that will not say that the state should not primarily deal with it. Almost anything else can and doesn't have to be the task of the state, but the protection of freedom must be. It really matters how we have a defense system, how our safety is safeguarded, from all possible risks that may arise. The risks change as years pass, they are not the same as 30 years ago, they will be different by 20, but the point remains that the success of a society is seen by success in protecting private property and its inviolability, which defends itself by law, but also by law, defends itself by dissuasive measures. So that's the basic question -- how do we motivate people to get into that sector? In this case, it's going to be a little repetitive, the law basically had one, how can I say, motivational package and package says that whoever is employed in the security sector, or now these changes were in the security sector, which is important to note, will have about a monthly supplement of 80 to 100 euros over 20 years of career, for the simple reason that the apartment could buy under subsidized conditions, not under prevailing conditions. There's the only question that exists, and you can't have a decadent answer to it, who claims to have it can make a mistake, because every time you look at that one nice balance, you'll have arguments for both sides, of course, whoever proposes the law will defend its own, those who have another vision will defend their arguments. Is it better for the defence system of the Republic of Serbia that those employed in its services have increased salaries just as much as Serbia has given up its incomes that it could have and buy apartments wherever it wants on the market? Is it better for the defense system to have people, to stimulate everything equally or only those who have no settled housing issue? As archaic as that term may be, I have to admit, because today everyone can decide whether or not life has actually done a lot by falling interest rates, falling extremely, from three or four years ago is much lower and making it easier to get to real estate? Is that a better way to go or is this the one that's been offered better in law? The bottom line is that our country has defined itself for the second time and we can talk about efficiency in the realization of that path. It's nothing controversial, it's a different view of the same problem. But what will be left for me as one big question is who exactly are we attracting to the system? What do we do with people who don't care, who are important to the security system? Because as time goes by, there will be more and more people in the security system with high qualifications, great knowledge, because the challenges will be different. Serbia is unlikely to be attacked by defending the infantry, but will need a lot of expertise. Is that enough to attract people, especially in Belgrade? Is this the right way and is it a maximum good thing, that we always have a system that is ready to defend our freedom and defend our human rights and defend our country? I've got a lot of skepticism here, but if this is how motivation is done, it doesn't have to be ugly and it can help solve some things. What's good about these changes is, if we've already targeted people who are creditworthy, who have secure jobs and who are quite popular clients of commercial institutions, if we want to take credit, this time in fact is the thing that makes deep sense, which is to target people who are serving our country, defending our freedoms, our human rights, Serbia's sovereignty, private property and doing their job that is responsible and risky, came into a position that they can't fully use their potentials from birth. They've actually offered one solid sacrifice, and such people need our country to make amends in this way, much more than it matters to people who are creditworthy. So these changes are better to me than the text of the law itself, because our society is many times in its history, starting with the story of "All this people will gold", when we were golding out one war in 1885, through a disastrous relationship with military people after the Great War, by forgetting the disabled wars of the 1990s and our inability to accept what we've done to some politicians, whether we've been victorious or lost, made our citizens and one great feeling that this society doesn't appreciate these people enough, in fact sent a very wrong message, which is that this country is not worth sacrificing, not least, which is a bad message and such messages should never be sent in the future. On that side, this law is good. If you look at how some other regulated countries repay themselves to people who have given their health, their working abilities, or their lives through the reimbursement of their families, we've had a dangerous stunt, partly because of poverty, partly because we didn't want to see things. On that side of this change have one deeper meaning and it is good that these groups are recognized in our society. On that side, I will repeat again, these changes are, personally, to me, like someone who is in the center and who loves freedom a lot more and who believes in commercial conditions, as much as you love this country, and when you love the country, you have to love the country, and you love it more by criticizing it, when you think it should be even better, they are better to me personally than the text of the law that we originally adopted. That's it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59115	Thank you, sir, Stevanovic. Dr Zorana Mihajlović, Deputy Prime Minister, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59116	I want to thank you, especially for the comment on the amendment and addition of the Law on building apartments for security forces. I agree with you a lot, but I would just like to remind the public that five, six, ten years ago, it was not possible to think at all about the state providing money for the most basic things in the area of the military and the police, because the simple budget was completely empty, because there was no money, because we were fighting in other areas and in infrastructure, exactly what it was, was how to provide even money for pensions and wages at all. Much has been done by the government of the Republic of Serbia so that we can sit today and talk about one single project, only one project, which is 8,022 apartments worth over 340m euros. Therefore, we are not talking about infrastructure and the value of infrastructure investments measured today at 14 billion euros. So sometimes we couldn't do it. We consolidated the budget, we arranged the finances, we started to change, and today we can do things like this, and today we can do everything that some of us haven't done before, and they should have done, just for security forces. What is also important is how we think and talk about this project being expanded, not only by security forces, but also by other users, whether it's doctors, teachers, teachers, but when we see how this project is going, that is, it's already going, but what it looks like to be realized, and we'll see it next year, when the first apartments in Vranj get their residents. On the other hand, another important thing about the issue of integrated border crossings. I would like to remind you that Serbia, which is towards the European Union and also towards the Western Balkan countries, is the first to raise the issue of abolishing, removing these so-called so-called countries. Not physical barriers. Because they cost the state the same as the physical barriers. So, one is building roads where we really do have a need, like a country that is located and is the shortest route between east and west, which has a lot of its neighbours. So our interest is to connect with the region, but equally important for our competitiveness and for our economy is to remove not physical barriers. We're already doing it with Montenegro. One integrated border crossing will be built. We're going to do it with Northern Macedonia now. The bridge we were working on, Ljubovija – Bratunac, where we expect the agreement from Bosnia and Herzegovina, will also have one integrated transition. So, there's going to be a crossing point. In many ways, we will help to connect exactly that which, when looked at in the structure of the impact on competitiveness, affects as much as any road, highway or rail, which is built. So we won't give it up, because it's a matter of real economic development of our country, and I believe it's equally important for our neighbours. It is not easy with the countries of the European Union, because we are not members of the European Union and then these procedures are on the side of countries that are members of the European Union and our procedures are much harder and that negotiations are going to be much harder for us, both with Hungary and Romania and with Bulgaria, to provide a place where border control itself will be carried out. I believe we're not far from making certain agreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59117	Thank you, Mrs. Mihajlovic. The word is given by MP Branimir Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59118	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected Deputy Prime Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, the proposal in amendments to the Law on special conditions for the implementation of the housing project for security forces has three objectives and these changes have been directed, above all, to extend the circle of people who can compete for these apartments, secondly, to define building land for buildings being built and, thirdly, to specify priorities for the purchase of apartments, first of all, I mean Belgrade. In May of last year, we passed a law that meant the right to apply for these apartments have employees in security services. With these changes, we will also allow fighters, families of fallen fighters, wartime military disableds and military disabled in peacetime conditions, also to have the right to compete and to buy this type of apartment. The amendments to the law are precise and precisely who meets these conditions, i.e. exactly who belongs to which category, and I think that this way we will correct one injustice and enter a social dimension into the realisation of this project. Of course, I am looking at this idea of building apartments in a broader context, not only will the members of the security forces and hope and fighters, members of their households and military disabled people thus provide a roof over their heads, but this is also of great importance to strengthen the overall system of national security. According to estimates, about 20,000 employees at the interior ministry, the police and the BIA and the justice ministry, as well as 14,000 members of the Serbian Army have not been provided, or no housing issue has been resolved. Now this number is being added by fighters, families of fallen fighters and wartime peoples. We do not know exactly how many will compete, but it is important that this problem has been approached in a serious way. The very fact that we have already passed a special law enables us to make this idea easier and easier to overcome any obstacles that we face in the field. In this context, I support the amendments and additions to the laws that define that land for regular use, building land, under the building and land is one meter wide, or if there are no technical conditions to form such a plot, then it is a plot beneath the building and a maximum of five meters wide around the building. In this way, we allow problems on the ground to be dealt with specifically in walking and to remove interference in those situations, as already stated, when land is to be determined for regular use, and there are no technical conditions for forming such a parcel. In addition, by passing a special law, we have made it possible to solve all issues systemically. Whether these apartments are built in Sremska Mitrovica, Novi Sad, Kragujevac or Vranj, we have prescribed equal conditions and procedures by which they are being built and I think that at the very beginning of the realization of this project, because the accelerated procedures for issuing building permits have been speeded up, that the public procurement process has been accelerated, as well as the expropriation of land where it was necessary, or where it will be necessary to carry out. Of course, the positive effects are already seen. In a few months in Nis, 68 security forces will be able to move into apartments. Also, 186 apartments in four buildings in Vranj are expected to be inhabitable by the end of the year. It is important that rough works are completed at that location and, regardless of what autumn comes, it will not interfere with further construction because they refer to fine works in the interior of buildings. For now, the pace of construction is somewhat slower in the King and Kragujevac, but it started there. In Kragujevac, there is a basis for two lamelas and is expected to be completed in this city in October of next year. In April and in my city of King, the construction of apartments for members of security began, and I hope it will be apartments for fighters, families of fallen fighters and military people with disabilities. This is how we show care for them as a society. Also, I must point out that there is a large number of members of the Serbian Army living in the Kingdom. In the King is also the headquarters of a police administration covering the cities of Kralje, Raška and Vranjska Banje. In the King is also the headquarters of a security-informative agency, as well as the headquarters of the county prison and for all of them the realization of this project is very important. It is predicted that 946 housing units will be built in the Kingdom in the coming period, and in this first phase, where 200 housing units will be built, six and a half million euros will be invested. The city has provided an excellent location on the area of five and a half hectares in the suburban settlement of Ribnica and it is good that here in this part of the city traffic infrastructure is not loaded, the choice of location is excellent, because the location itself will in future gain the attractiveness that it can expand this residential zone and will thus be relieved of the city center, which is another advantage of the realization of this project. In this case, the government had an understanding for local self-government, although it was initially predicted that local self-government was required to provide infrastructure to the very location, where apartments are built, and that the government would provide money for work within the location. Let's just say, in the King's local budget, about 200 million dinars were charged, as the Republic of Serbia's budget allocated so much money to build a traffic infrastructure to the location, rain sewerage, a water network and other missing connections. So far, experience from Nis and Vranja has also shown that local self-government has been responsible in their work, that they have done their part of the work and I hope that in other cities where construction is somewhat slower to have similar experience. The law lays down the conditions and priorities relating to interested people who compete for the purchase of apartments. The amendments to the law now specify the conditions, which are priorities for Belgrade's territory. Obviously, this location, i.e. the location of Belgrade's territory, is the most attractive because of the launch of housing prices on the real estate market, and is prescribed by these amendments and by the law that those who have residence on Belgrade's territory will have priority on the day of entry into force of the law. I will also remind you that the criteria previously prescribed by law are fair. First of all, I think that priority should be given to employees in the security services, who have not solved the housing issue, and then only those who have solved the housing issue, but who feel that living conditions are not of the proper quality. Also, I have to specify the restrictions that have been prescribed by law before, which is that a member of the security service that sold the property or one of its household members will not have the right to apply for these apartments. And once again, the apartment cannot be alienated for the next 10 years and a security officer will have to spend 10 years in that body if they want to compete for this type of apartment. In addition to resolving the issue of security employees' housing, I think this project will have a positive impact on the overall economy, given that the law is already prescribed to be recommended and that domestic companies should be contractors. It's going to be one momentum, one incentive for the construction industry. Experience has shown that domestic companies offered the best offer in the Kingdom and Kragujevac and went to tender. There will be increased employment. Our construction material producers will also benefit. I remind you that the law provides that when a specification of the construction material is made 80% of that material, the equipment, the installation must be made by domestic producers. Indirect benefits will be given to local self-government when these buildings are completed, as facilities are built on their territories and they will later collect income tax, i.e. property tax. The owners of future apartments have a number of financial benefits and I assume that a large part of them will buy apartments by taking bank loans and that will be a good option for them. Instead of paying rent to rent an apartment in this way almost for the same amount, they will be able to buy their own apartments in a certain period and this is also favourable for the development of the banking sector itself, as credit activity will be increased. In addition to these amendments and additions to the law today, we are also discussing the draft law on the validation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on the establishment of joint controls at the border crossing for international road traffic between Presevo-Tabanovci and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia. The idea is to reduce the waiting time at border crossings by uniting border controls at the entrance to the neighbouring country, or at the exit from one country. Now it's a common practice, as we know from experience, to first carry out the controls on leaving one country, then another to enter another country. The adoption of this agreement will allow for one single control to be carried out, while leaving Serbia and entering Macedonia, the transition would be in northern Macedonia at the Tabanovac crossing, and vice versa on the way out of Macedonia and entering Serbia on the territory of the Republic of Serbia at the Presevo border crossing. This solution is particularly important during summer vacations where there are crowds at the border crossings and I expect that we will be able to approach the realization of this idea as soon as possible and that all necessary work is completed. This will double the waiting time at the border between the Republic of Serbia and northern Macedonia. And this agreement has shown that a rational agreement makes it easier to achieve mutual benefit. He is a good example of good co-operation and therefore the SDPS will support these bill proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59119	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. Now the word has been made by the People's MP Bojan Bagica. Here's a colleague of the Bag.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59120	I thank the Honorable Chairman. The esteemed Vice-Presidents of the Government with their associates, honourable fellow MPs, when we talk about the Law on Special Conditions for the Implementation of the Building of Apartments for Security Forces, the issue addressed by the law must be seen in a broader context. This law provides not only a roof over the head of security forces that have not solved the housing issue, but resolving this issue is of great importance to only strengthen the overall national security system. Given the importance and responsibilities of the security forces and their importance for the security of the entire state, as well as the persons who have made a significant contribution to security in earlier war activities, the defence of sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity of the state, and since the largest number of unsettled housing needs in the state authorities are among the security forces that have failed to resolve their housing issues permanently for decades, the current Government of the Republic of Serbia is after a number of years which were from the end of 2000 until mid-2012, during which security forces, and above all, the Serbian Army has been humiliated and brought into the status of a voluntary hunting society, and its members have been brought to the brink of life existence, and as I say, the current Government has in the past few years joined the system to solve all security forces themselves, as well as its members. It is precisely the decision that the state should start building apartments for security forces made on the basis of the many needs of the members of these security forces. Looking at all the real needs of the government of the Republic of Serbia, it decided to start building apartments in Vranj, Nis, Kralje, Kragujevac, Novi Sad, Sremski Mitrovica and Belgrade first. In the first phase of the project it was planned to build a total of 8.022 apartments in seven cities, at the beginning of the realization, i.e. in the first phase A of 1,530 apartments, of which it was already started with the construction of 792 apartments, while in the first B phase it was planned to build another 6,492 apartments, which really represents a significant shift compared to the situation from a decade ago or more. Currently, the works are carried out in four cities, Nis, Vranj, Kragujevac and Kraljen, and the beginning of works in Sremska Mitrovica, Novi Sad, is expected in mid-August of this year. A tender for the construction of apartments in Belgrade is expected at the end of October this year. All that I have presented so far clearly shows us that this Government of the Republic of Serbia, unlike the previous governments of the DOS period, has approached the responsible and systematic resolution of this issue. This means that in the coming period, a large number of security forces, the most important, evenly unprivileged city in which they live, will have a chance to solve their housing problems completely. After a little more than a year, as the Law on Special Conditions for the Implementation of Apartment Construction Project for Security Forces has been in force, the need has been created to amend and supplement the applicable law additional office conditions, criteria and procedures for the implementation of the project of housing for security forces, as well as for fighters, families of fallen fighters, wartime military disabled and peacetime military disabled. These changes relate primarily to the expansion of the circle of persons considered to be members of security forces, defining the concepts of a fighter, a member of the family household of a fallen fighter and a military invalid, as well as the establishment of the right to purchase an apartment under more favourable conditions and priorities for buying an apartment in Belgrade's territory. Thus, changes and additions to the law extend the circle of persons who can achieve the possibility of buying an apartment under more favourable conditions to fighters, members of the home of a fallen fighter, wartime military disabled and peacetime military disabled. The reasons why it was necessary to extend the circle of faces is the fact that these proposed persons have also contributed to national security and defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia. Due to the high interest in apartments to be built on the territory of Belgrade City, precision has also been made which persons have priority in buying apartments under more favourable conditions on the territory of the City of Belgrade, noting that they are employees of security forces who are the place of employment in Belgrade's territory. Finally, I would like to give recognition to the Republic Government which, unlike, for example, from the period between 2008 to 2012, I resolved in a completely different way, i.e. solves the issues of housing security. During that period from 2008 to 2012 I will tell you that, for example, the problem of the former defence minister's apartment, whose co-owner is at the current apartment in Vračar, i.e. The owner of four-tenths of the same apartment, Vilafarm LLD, which received close to 10 public procurements during the term of Sutanovac and received about 350,000 euros from these public procurements. The company "Vilafarm LLD" had joint director Radomir Bzik with the company Peyton Medikal, which received funds from the Ministry of Defence. Then it is no wonder that a former defence minister, Dragan Sutanovac, with only four and a half years of mandate, can reach an apartment worth over a million euros. I don't think it's too bad to pull out an account that for over a million euros, former Defence Minister Dragan Sutanovac built a 190m2 apartment and a 139m2 gallery, and today, for these million and a few euros, under these conditions that the Ministry and the Government can build a residential building for members of the security forces that would count over 50 apartments. E, this is exactly the difference between the people's housing issue, for example in the Ministry of Defence, the police from 2008 to 2012, and how the same issue was resolved after the change in government in 2012. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59121	Thank you, Comrade Torbice. Now the word has been made by the People's MP Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59122	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a year and a month ago in this House we passed a law establishing the basis for resolving the housing issues of security forces. We Serbian radicals then made a series of remarks. What comes first is that there should be no difference when it comes to citizens of Serbia. It should also be possible for all citizens, if that is the government's ability, to reach favourable prices for the purchase of apartments, since in that law, Article 10 has remained unchanged. He predicts that the price of a square meter is 500 euros, there is no citizen in Serbia who has not solved the housing problem, so that he does not solve the housing problem, given that the price of a square metre currently in Belgrade, Novi Sad, is not below 1,000 euros per square metre in larger urban areas, and that would be good for every citizen. But the explanation was that in the first phase housing problems or issues would be solved, the issue of security officers, military officials, police, BIA, intelligence services, and now we have something to address to this Article 1 which is the amendment and addition of the law where it is extended that they will be able to be disabled, families of fallen fighters, etc. which is a broader range of possibilities for those who ultimately belong to or belong to the security forces of the military, the police and the BIA, that they or their descendants, under the same conditions, eventually try to solve their housing problem. What the SRS was saying back then, just a reminder, is that this idea wasn't new, it wasn't since yesterday and it didn't come with this government, or with the Secretary of Resort. This idea has been from earlier, just in 2000, started a program and a project to solve housing problems, so on. cheap apartments for Serbian citizens. I said exactly - for the citizens of Serbia. The idea was developed in a study conducted by large experts from different Serbia areas and was created on the real basis that there were favourable conditions and that it was essentially possible to provide financial resources to build 100,000 apartments in Serbia. You've heard well, 100,000 apartments, but in all parts of Serbia. The project even included former Serbian President Slobodan Milosevic. One of the living participants present today is engineer Milutin Mrkonjic. He was eventually the operative, as I recall, who was supposed to implement the project, but was based on analysis by experts from different fields. So it was said, to solve demographic problems, to solve all other problems facing Serbia requires 100,000 apartments at the price that then did not go against 500 euros. That's when they were stamps. A series of circumstances gave up, no realisation occurred, however, the idea was re-activated in 2003 when Belgrade Mayor Nenad Bogdanovic said apartments should be built in Belgrade that will not cost more than 600 or 700 euros per square metre. It wouldn't have been so interesting if it hadn't been for the race of literally political actors on the political scene of Serbia, representatives of the former DOS, in different factions, different parties. A representative, then mayoral candidate G1 7+, came forward, saying that the minister better managed, which she said - all this nonsense, under 750 euros cannot be a square metre built in Belgrade. The Serbian Radical Party did not lag behind in this, Aleksandar Vukic as an SRS candidate for mayor by consulting with experts from the area, said he would make an effort to secure cheap apartments in Belgrade's territory in 2004, at a cost of no more than 350 euros. Then began the canonad attack on Alexander Vukic, as he is equal to or equal to the one who promises a kilo of bread for three dinars. The idea remained obvious thanks to Alexander Vukic, who, as Prime Minister, re-activated the idea of building cheaper apartments, is not cheap for security forces. What was in common with all these ideas? In addition to the price, it was placed in the first place that domestic construction operations would be activated, that this would also be a significant impulse for GDP growth, that domestic products would be used, or materials produced by domestic factories, and could have been expected in 2000, when this basic idea came out in daylight. Because then we had a good part, almost an entire economy that wasn't privatized, and we had companies that were to the soul, there were private ones, but most of them were significant, those that could engage in this project were state-owned companies. After that, after privatisation, it was hard to believe that it would be possible to use domestic construction operations, or domestic building materials. Why? Because there's been different changes, big changes. These companies that were like big gigans, such as Rad, such as Ratko Mitrović, etc. They were privatized, most of them devastated, completely destroyed, and manufacturers of domestic construction materials along the same route, as construction operations have gone as construction firms. After buying, they're literally gone, they don't exist, or possibly in tracks, like cementists. What is highlighted here when it comes to building apartments in larger urban areas such as Vranje, Nis, Novi Sad, Belgrade, as joined by Sremska Mitrovica, etc.? It also stressed that it would be an opportunity for a domestic construction operation, that domestic construction products would be widely used. It started with the realization of the project, not to go into the details now that there was a delay, prolonging, because the law was not passed in time, and then with the local self-government no timely agreement was reached, certain local self-governments, but the first construction and start of construction in Vranj, and, you can imagine, is the contractor of the Turkish company "Tashjapi", the subcontractor is domestic, that is, "Milenium". Where's the whole story now about domestic construction operations being used to the maximum? As a subcontractor, it's a domestic company, it's a Millennium which, you know, when you're a subcontractor, you work on a minimum of profit no matter how much we want it to be different, but the one who got the job, the one who does the job, determines how much the subcontractor will pay. Here is a miracle bigger with the fact that Serbia is the Republic, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, an investor and can no longer explain that it is an international tender, which clearly has rules that all interested people can report on the international tender. Only one performer, the Turkish company that won, appeared here, regardless of which investor is the government of the Republic of Serbia. Everywhere is a rule, an investor can influence and should influence who will be the performer. Even since this is a lex specialis, it could analogize someone that these are special conditions and that these special conditions apply to the engagement of a domestic performer. Why does this matter? The domestic performer, I stress the performer, will engage domestic labour, will hire the domestic construction industry, when it comes to the stranger he will see that the cheaper it goes, that what is invested in the material buys at cheaper prices. For example, there is a cement from Albania, because it is much more favourable than the cement from Beocinska cement factory, because it is more favourable, cheaper than the "Popovac" cement plant, or as my colleague Despot insists on noting Kosjerić, Kosjerić is also importing from Albania, because it is an interest of whoever performs the works to pay the construction material as cheaply as possible, and this depends on him and the financial resources available by the contractor. That's what's obvious. We can now be convinced that it is according to all international rules, that this Turkish company paves the way for Tutin, so that the Turkish company has won, but how do we explain that the owner of this company was detained in March, arrested for bribery, how do we explain it? What parameters have affected this artist to remain, however, and continues to be a "Milenium" subcontractor. There are different stories about subcontractors, but let's not spread the story now. What the Serbian Radical Party insisted on when the law was passed and when it comes to these changes and additions, it is to allow as many Serbian citizens as possible, if you are already going to the so-called. solving human problems when it comes to housing, then you could put in professors, you could put in young scientists, doctors, etc. These are all young people who go abroad, and we've come to realize that by solving a housing problem, we're going to make a big step towards stopping them, we're keeping them here to live, because it's not even great in that West to work and it can't be that easy to get to living space, especially when it comes to the price of a square meter. This 500-euro dumping is favourable for every citizen. What else is interesting here? Interestingly, with this idea, former Army Minister Dragan Sutanovac went public to make apartments for former Duke Step's barracks, which will be dedicated to the officer's staff of the Serbian Army. That's when 70 apartments were made, assigned to members of the officer's staff of the Serbian Army, may be senior or lower officers, as you share here, but officers are officers, professional persons who are engaged in the army, they are soldiers, generally watching soldiers. What was then, which model was applied then? The model for these commercial bank officers to raise, as they say, favourable loans, states, or government subsidized those loans by participating with 10%, where the interest was 0.1% for those who were renters, and on these regular loans taken from commercial banks was 6% interest. It was then promoted as very favourable to the fact that the space held by the Serbian Army was used and was given to build apartments where a certain number of members of the army were housed. Then the SRS said the same thing, why are there real discrimination, why isn't that provided to the police? They wouldn't listen to us. It was just a euphoric condition at the time. It was then promised by the minister himself and the current government that such action would continue wherever the property was held by the Serbian Army and where the conditions are favourable, that it would start building, with this as well as here, that in co-operation with local self-government, it would provide favourable conditions for infrastructure security. It was promised to be in Valjevo, promised to be in Kragujevac and so on. And what's interesting is this, which is why we're taxingly saying that this is more or less in the majority of the pre-election period. Right before the election, a year or six months. When the election is over, it's a hell of a lot not to be done, it's to be forgotten. They count, a people too busy with their problems, solving the basis of existence, who will remember where they have promised to do their dwellings. This is where it started with a similar logic. It was announced here that by the end of 2019, most of the apartments that were announced will be started in all cities, Vranj, Nis, Novi Sad, Belgrade, Sremska Mitrovica, and then it has been notified to the public in a timely manner that there will be a prolonging in Novi Sad, that an adequate location should be found in Belgrade that will be appropriate, that it will be moved for September of the month, I am talking about this year, and it is now talking about October of the month and all. Next year, gentlemen, in April of the month, as we've heard, there are elections. Imagine what kind of propaganda force this is when it is announced that most army officers and security forces will be able to solve their housing problem on very favourable terms. It goes with the logic of concentration circles when it comes to voices, so those who are interested, with their family members, will in any case be favored by the authorities in the first place, because the government allows them to buy apartments under more favourable conditions. Perhaps we Serbian radicals wouldn't be so sure about this claim, if the other day we hadn't watched something more for movie journals, where the resolute minister and his associates are occupying the construction site or the place where the workers for performing the work on Corridor 10, that's occupation, that's the air destination done, except here with cars. Imagine the scene, the film journal. Today, a fellow minister or friend of the minister visited Corridor 10, for who knows which time, N factorial, and with her associates she spoke to the workers and told – we believe in you, you are our hope. The workers have no small ties, work in a private company, even if the miracle is bigger, it's a Greek company that's causing problems for us in Corridor, not forgetting the minister to say it, but besides it, you won't believe, with your head and your beard, Drobnjak. For a wonderful miracle, he seemed to me in front of the cameras sober, very sober. The small man goes by that logic, when he wants to ride a drawer, he doesn't talk to a horse, he talks to a coachman. And that's how he managed to get him to be a significant factor in that film journal, because it remains for centuries. That's the way it is. None of us, believe me, when you want to ride a car with a drawer, I don't know how much you've been able to do, so you won't ask the horse to pull the trigger, you ask the coachman. So Drobnjak, for the price of the highway, for the toll, asked Vukic, did not ask the resolute minister, even the resolute minister said it was out of the question, showed impatience to such behaviour. However, when it comes to the tour of the Corridor, there is Drobnjak. Where's the Director of Corridor, no one knows, he's guessing. A bigger secret is where the Director of Corridors is, whether he is in Brions or Greece, than what kind of set will be attended by a resolution minister in front of workers, i.e. in the Serbian Parliament. It's a bigger dilemma. And Serbia is literally in a position to think more about it because of all life problems – and where is the Director of Corridor? Where's the problem in Corridor 10? The problem is, it's all about propagandism. You can't stay in Serbia, gentlemen. You need to change ministers in the Serbian government. They deal with personal propaganda. After all, for the sake of the Serbian public, there was also a personal photographer of the Minister of Resort. Imagine where we came with the standard, when a personal photographer comes in to take pictures of the minister. It doesn't matter what the subject is, it's important that that picture goes public. It's important that some ministers are promoted, and if Corridor 10, the eastern arms are going to function, so as if that's important, it's about 100 meters or a kilometer, as if it matters. These are geologists, geological research done in 2008, they're guilty. You know, waist has nothing to do with it. There's one thing a resolute minister can't figure out. It's not the minister's professional face to go to the field, to show his mind how smart she is, how professional she is. The minister is a host man. The minister needs to provide funds for the project to work, not to play some strict cop who's going to be in front of cameras talking to engineers, people in the profession, and she doesn't know anything about it herself.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59123	Thank you. The word now has Professor Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59124	Let's start with the bill first, and of course we'll get to the Corridor. The story of the idea, no one disputed that ideas existed before, you know it better than I did, you said – Milosevic, Bogdanović, etc. But when there's something left to be just an idea, then there's really no point. I think it's much more important that the idea becomes a reality, or that it is realized through a particular project. Well, this government is, therefore, in the realization of such a project that, yes, it was once an idea, but it was once an idea, and today it's really a realization. And today, the flats are being built. I think on February 8th, those who buy apartments in Vranj will move to their apartments, in May next year they will move to Nis. It's already done in the King and Kragujevac. Artists in Novi Sad and Sremska Mitrovica were selected. In Belgrade, we expect it in October. You're only right about the location being sought and that some other institutions have been yet to be evaluated. Speaking of which, there won't be enough domestic businesses, there won't be enough domestic equipment, then let me remind you, and when we defend this law, it says clearly in the law, and yet in realisation it is very clear. First, the law says – 80% must be the least Serbian equipment. All that works on all these sites is more than 80% of the equipment from Serbia. So, housing is from Serbia, production is in Serbia. Secondly, when you say who the performers are in the construction of these apartments, Nis and Vranje, which are first started to work, it is the Turkish-Serbian consortium. Only one performer answered the public call and after that contract was concluded. In all other places, Kraljevo, Kragujevac, Novi Sad, Sremska Mitrovica, consortiums are exclusively Serbian. It is absolutely true, no matter how disdainful you are about it, so it is absolutely true that it is affecting and raising the local economy. So, you have artists from Paracino, Krushevac, Kragujevac, we can read them all, so the public knows. In the King it is “Grading” from Paracino, as a carrier of consortiums. Within the consortium there are companies from Kruševac and Paracino. In Kragujevac it is "Love Invest", a consortium carrier, and also several companies, all from Paracino, Kragujevac and Kruševec. In Novi Sad, it is "Orbis Company" Novi Sad and "Anzor Engineering" also from Novi Sad. In Sremska Mitrovica, it is a group of bidders who make up "Modular" Belgrade, "Tesla Systems" Belgrade and "Kej" Valjevo, and the CIP has been elected for supervision. So, that story, while you're talking, I understand that that's how you get to your political points by explaining how the government gives everything to strangers, and none of it is true and use yourself as in your past so-called. Half-truths, or half-untruths, what to call them anymore, but you're really wrong. Secondly, when you're talking, once again to confirm that the equipment and equipment of apartments that are not, I repeat once again, social housing, are made by all energy efficiency standards and all building standards, at least 80% of Serbian, there are much more than 80% of them everywhere. It's about your objections to the law. You mentioned, among other things, that the owner of the Turkish company was arrested. The owner of the Turkish company, Emre, lives in Turkey, has not been arrested for a moment. The person you're talking about, which we've learned about, is one of the managers within the Turkish company Tashajapi, and I believe the authorities are doing their part of the job, has nothing to do with the owner, which I think is important, because if the owner were, in my opinion, that problem. As for the story of the deant, as you called it, I must tell you something. You can really, and you do that, and maybe our feelings are mutual in that sense, that you talk about me whatever you want, you can think about me whatever you want, you can work at every session of the Assembly and outside the session of the Assembly to talk about me whatever you want, it's really your thing, it's really less interesting to me, I say, our feelings are mutual, but what you can never change are the results that someone does. So, I'm ready every moment with you who didn't make a brick, who didn't sleep on the track, who didn't dirty your shoes, who didn't make or finish some of the hardest part of the highway, always measure those results of what who did so far, so let's see who did or destroyed what, like you, what you're famous for and what someone did and built. Therefore, I represent the Government of the Republic of Serbia, there is no construction site I have not been to, there is no construction site I will not be at. What I want to remind you, maybe even so friendly to tell you, is that when you talk about workers like that and everything that happens on Corridor 10, you don't work against me, you do 10/3 MZ/CG directly against the workers. As you are also, and I don't even know how you're going to get people out there between Pojat and Preljina to explain that you're against the highway, they'll probably understand your argument that it's better not to have a highway than to have, so does Corridor 10. These people are heroes, something else, you don't know, obviously, those stocks aren't run by one company, they're working by hundreds of companies. These workers are, above all, hundreds of Serbian companies, these are our people, people who live in Serbia, people who work there day and night at 45 degrees that day. Therefore, anything you say, speaking to me, believe me, it's as if you've hurt them. So, whether you mind if I go or not, it's an important result. It's a traffic light. Samafor says -- 300km of highways, rehabilitated railways, three international airports. And what did you do? Most of the time, you've been destroying. That's what you were famous for. So don't talk to me about it. This law we, as I said, will make of the idea the result, as well as the highways, as well as the Pojate-Pray, everything we've done so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59125	Thank you, Mrs. Mihajlovic. Now the right to replica has Aleksandar Markovic, so Milorad Mircic, to mention the party's president and party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59126	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. First, in 2003, Nenad Bogdanovic was not the mayor of Belgrade, but, if I am not mistaken, 2004, after the local elections, I think, in September 2004. Otherwise, the curiosity was that the majority system for Belgrade mayor's election was in place at the time, so the yellow ones for the 2008 elections changed faster and better the way the mayor was elected, only so that Vucic would not win. Because they knew that Gilas had no absolute chance of defeating Alexander Vukic in the direct elections. But, well, that's not the point now. What we heard was that the price of apartments is 500, not 500, but 500 euros. So there's a big difference. We have heard that in various cities the price will be 400 and 430 and 450 euros. So it's not 500, it's up to 500 euros in anti-dinary value. However, the chairman, we have heard here that this is not really a new idea, that these are old ideas, that there have been a series of experts, some capable and smart people who have proposed this before. Well, in that case, I have to ask, and why didn't those very, very smart, capable experts realize those smart ideas? Why did they have to go years and years, decades, even? So, only now, when the Serbian Progressive Party took responsibility for the exercise of power in Serbia, today we are in a position to realise this project. So everyone was smart and capable, and no one did anything, no one alive did anything about it. They melted our weapons, built some buildings in the pastures of Vracar, and only today, when we are practically half of this work, half of this project, is clearly seen who is the only one able to finish this very serious and very responsible job, which is the Serbian Government, headed by the Serbian Progressive Party, led by Aleksandr Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59127	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. Now the right to replica has Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59128	You misread this, Mrs. Mihajlovic. It's not a central question for you here. You start every sentence - me. Latin ego, that's the root of egoism. There's one rule in public appearances -- as soon as a man says "I," there's neither a sentence nor a man. Don't use that. You put yourself and even yourself with the workers, far away. You've never even been close to those workers. Those workers serve you in marketing. And don't tell those of us who have been in politics long enough to tell that story. You went there to make your own marketing. New elections are being prepared, perhaps the government's reconstruction, who knows what the motive of that group was for following you. Maybe your associate Small Guy went to sober up? I don't know. How do I know what can happen to a drunk man by heart? But what you have to admit here, you're using thesis. We're talking about real facts here. This project, we've been telling you, can be done where local self-government can at favourable prices location, can give parcels. Not by what the state will say - we'll take it. It's got to be recorded somewhere. And favourable plots are where, above all, the property of the Serbian Army, where the barracks that are devastated stand. That's quite an attractive location. In Kragujevac you have one of the most attractive locations, in Novi Sad you have an attractive location, in Valjev you have an attractive location, in Nis there is "Stevan Sidelic" a very attractive location. It's state property. We're talking on the basis of real facts. There's no reason for you to call someone if he knew how to make a brick. Most of us have never made bricks in our lives. Maybe you're making a brick? It's something new you're discovering. Maybe you're doing it, and maybe you're not. Maybe we'll watch it in some movie journal in the next period, as the minister makes a brick. That would be very interesting.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59129	Thank you, colleague Mircic. Now the word has been given by MP Borisav Kovacevic. Here you go, colleague Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59130	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister and your associates, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, we in the Assembly, it seems to me, we rarely have the opportunity to discuss and plead on the adoption of a Lex specialist, and that is always in itself interesting. When I'm talking about the Lex special, I don't mean to be imprecise, exactly on the law on special conditions for the realisation of the housing project for members of the security forces. Lex specialis has its own specifics, just because it stands out, not only of the usual method of making, but it treats and edits things that are not common. For this reason, it is very important that such a law regulates one, so to speak, the set of organisational, therefore, bodies that adopt and implement these laws. From that point of view, I think this proposed law is absolutely well done for us. I'll illustrate with a few things. So, a government committee has been formed to prepare a proposal for an apartment building programme for members of the security forces. So, something that's a key, fundamental thing to law-making. It is formed, the commission, on a proposal from the National Security Council, and it says in itself what it means and what it means to care for the members of the security authorities, security forces and what it has to do with the overall system of national security. The proposal for a council was made on 16 November 2011, followed by the government's conclusion which confirmed it, which is the only thing I don't understand, so I would ask the Minister if he could explain it later, because I don't understand why there is a gap of five years between the National Security Council proposal and the Government's conclusion on this proposal? Then, a Commission was formed to coordinate activities in the construction of apartments for members of the security service, which also shows a highly constructive approach, because really without such an organ, it would not be possible to enter into such a broad action as is assumed by this law. The Co-ordination Commission was formed on 4 October 2018, so about a year after the Government's conclusion on the adoption of the law. This whole project, that's also said in the materials we've received, I don't remember exactly whether in that explanation or in what part, it's been established, and that's one definition that stands as a bearing pillar or corner foundation, that this whole project is of importance to Serbia's national security. That's what I mentioned earlier. At first glance, me and when I first read it seemed a little pretentious to me, but when you look at the whole law, when you take a good look at things, then you see it's not, but it's very realistically defined. Here with this whole project is very important and it's you out there in those accompanying materials delivered to us and told us that this hasn't deviated from the constitutional principle of property protection, that's the article 58. The Constitution. It's very important, this is where the score came in, though we don't, and that's my grudge, we don't have any clarifications. More is explained by the definitions of certain things, such as, say, the realisation of the project affects GDP growth in the area of construction. I suppose that's the case, but we don't have any explanation of what it is and how it's contained and how it's being realized. Then, it was said that the law and the project bring employment growth, because the law, and the minister said so in the replica, because the law determines the obligation to hire domestic firms in the realisation of the project. It's a very important thing. Then it is logical that employment growth is realistically expected, which is very important and significant for this country, because this project will not run until the end of this year or until the end of next year, but will be achieved in a succession way. There's one thing that's not clear to me as much as I've read, and I couldn't find an explanation for it. It is said that law enforcement does not require additional funding from the budget, and this is not explained anywhere in the materials, in which it will be achieved, and to me it looks a little improbable. The project is neither simple, nor short-lived, nor insignificant that I believe there can be no intervention, not at all, as it is said here, from the budget, so I would pray, if it can, the clarification and about it. In addition, it would be very important, and we have nowhere in the materials, and if it is said that there will be no budget interventions, at the same time, there is no ultimate approximation in the materials of the necessary means on an annual level or in total, etc. I think you've been unnecessarily thrifty in the reasons of the law. In that explanation, here, I've already listed a lot of things, there are others, there should be these explanations and explanations. It is very important that the law is well regulated, regulated, the provisions are clearly defined, etc., when it comes to the construction of dwellings for which categories of people, for members of which authorities, so the Ministry of Defence, the Serbian Army, the MUP, BIA, the Department of Justice, the Administration for the execution of sanctions, etc., which is very important, because it provides that there is no extension to social categories that do not literally belong to the security authorities. It is very important, and you said that in the opening statement, it is very important that this law in the rights of dwellings equalised the current members, the active members of the security authorities and those who are retired, means earlier those, because it would be wrong, this country could not justify some basic, or cardinal strategic direction and policy-making of this country, if it did not equate those who are now standing on the defender of the security of this country and those who are in much more difficult situations than the one in which we are now, and in regular, give their great contribution to the security of the country, and among them there is, unfortunately, a very large number that have not provided themselves or their families with housing. That's why I think this deserves, as they say, a thunderous round of applause. Here, too, are precise and clearly defined by a certain member, 3, I think, which are categories of our citizens from those who are not active, and they have the right to this benefit to come to apartments. It has been said that the law provides for Serbia's overall development, i.e. that this development provides this huge investment in housing, and that is a great truth, and I think that this law can be fully implemented and implemented. I think it's very important that this law makes buying an apartment under favourable conditions well and precisely defined and elaborated, I think it's a Article 5 and another, because something that's very important has been done. If this law did not contain some very significant provisions, we could expect that its application would lead to abuse in the realization of this project. This is how the greater number of provisions of this law specifically precisely prevents the abuse of this benefit from a more favourable purchase, and this is very important in the definition of my and our parliamentary group to vote in favour of this law. Another thing that is very important in this law, given the enormous financial resources, to the incorporated implementation of the laws of many bodies and ministries, etc., it is very important that the law defines the supervision of the application of the provisions of this law. I think he's well-placed. It is said that the ministry is responsible for works of construction, and I am the only one who is not clear to me, and I would ask that explanation, is the overall supervision of the implementation of this project sufficient only for the Ministry of Civil Engineering, given that the implementation of the whole project is also about significant sales or purchase or sales transactions, finance and so on, which is not the fact that the Ministry of Construction is responsible? So I think it would be good for the law here, to put it this way, to be written by someone who would be in charge of this side of the realisation of the project, or control of the implementation of the project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59131	Thank you, Mr. Kovacevic. The word is Mrs. Stefana Miladanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59132	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, perhaps at the very beginning because of citizens watching this transfer, I would like to remind you that in May of last year we adopted this Law on special conditions for the implementation of projects for building apartments for members of security forces, which enables the construction of apartments for members of the military, police and security services at subsidized prices. As has been said today, several phases of the realization of this project have been planned. The first phase of building apartments by 2020 plans to build 1,578 apartments in six cities in Serbia. At the very moment of the Law's adoption, as many as 30,000 security forces were without an apartment, and in a survey conducted at the time, nearly 18,000 participants applied for participation in the programme. Legal solutions enabled fast and efficient construction at the same time in several cities, as I mentioned. The investment value of this first phase for 1,500 apartments is 464m euros, and the quality of construction itself is according to energy efficiency standards and all other building standards. It is especially important that this large infrastructure construction project includes our businesses, our domestic economy, from the construction material manufacturer to the apartment equipment manufacturer. Today, the housing issue, as always, is the question of the most important in life, especially young people, especially when it comes to security forces, military, police, security agencies that care about national and personal security. It is understood that anyone who cares about the safety of other people's families must have his own roof over his head. A large number of security officials have failed to resolve their housing issues especially in the last two decades. In the past year since the entry into force of this law, it has started building apartments in Vranj and Nis, and in April this year both in the King and Kragujevac. Given the importance and responsibility of the work that security forces carry out and their importance for the security of the entire state, as well as for those who have provided earlier war acts with a significant contribution to the security, defence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of our country, we are now supplementing this law in the circle of persons who will be able to resolve their housing issues through this project also will include fighters, families of fallen fighters, wartime disabled and peacetime military disableds who, in this way, confirm that they are not invisible to us, that the state cares for them as well. The amendment refers to the precision of a security force area, as well as those persons, to the right to purchase an apartment under more favourable conditions. It is also precise how land is defined for regular use in case there are no technical conditions for the formation of parcels. Addressing this problem is the public interest of the Republic of Serbia and is important for strengthening the national security system. History has been known to be a major infrastructure project that, after wars or through different stages of industrial development, has raised economy to its feet. We've had these phases through our history, which have raised up to our feet and our citizens and our economy. It was a period of great restoration. To remind only of the great reconstructions of our country and the huge infrastructure works following the NATO pact bombing, when hundreds of bridges, hospitals, roads, residential buildings, factories were restored within a year, when the entire economy and engineering profession were mobilized. Many projects were verified before 2000 and, unfortunately, some governments, claiming that all of them began, and that nothing existed before them, after 2000, stopped these projects. There have been some attempts, as has been said today, that certain projects are being implemented, but most of these projects have not come to life. We therefore support this law and this approach to a serious problem such as housing and security services, as well as the government's decision to create better conditions for them to live and work. What concerns us and what the whole of Europe faces is a brain drain, i.e. the departure of young, educated people from our country. We are witnessing different measures taken and creating different policies to keep young and professional people in our country, and in this sense this project should continue to be extended to other professions such as scientific workers, young couples, health workers, workers from the education system and every initiative by the SPS will be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59133	Thank you, colleague Miladanovic. Anybody else answer for a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Aleksandar Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59134	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, here, after a little over a year and a half, since November 2017, when the Council of Serbia established a Commission to prepare a proposal for a housing programme for members of the security forces, and then in December 2017, when the Commission reached the conclusion that a more rapid and efficient implementation of the project is necessary and a special law governing the conditions and criteria, the way and procedure for the implementation of a project for the building of apartments for security forces, then establishing public interest, establishing a process of expropriation, prescribing the obligations of participants in the process of adopting or amending existing plans and many other elements covered by the bill. Finally, during May 2018, therefore, last year, the National Assembly passed a law on special conditions for the implementation of a project to build apartments for security forces. Then, October 2018, by the conclusion of the Serbian government, the Commission for the Coordination of Activities in Building Apartments for Security Forces was educated. One of the Commission's conclusions is that, because of the more meaningful implementation of the project, it is necessary to amend and supplement the applicable law in a way that extends the circle of persons who can achieve the possibility of buying apartments under more favourable conditions. So far, the law has included members of the Ministry of Defence, the Serbian Army, the police, the BIA, the Department of Criminal Sanctions, which means the Ministry of Defence, and now extends the circle of those persons to fighters, members of the home of a fallen fighter, wartime military disabled, peacetime military disabled. I would like to read that this is precisely defined when it comes to the concept of a fighter, and it says in the bill: "A fighter within the meaning of this law is a citizen of the Republic of Serbia, who, as a member of the SFRY Armed Forces, performed military duties or other duties for military objectives or for other state security objectives in armed actions in order to defend sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity of the SFRY, between 17 August 1990 and 27 April 1992." Why until April 27, 1992? Because the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia was then defined "The Frog Constitution". Well, then: "For members of the SFRY Armed Forces stationed in Bosnia and Herzegovina until 19 May of the same year". So in that vacuum, when part of the SFRY force remained in Bosnia and Herzegovina, so until the SFRJ army's withdrawal from Bosnia and Herzegovina. Then: "As a member of the SRJ armed forces, then the SCG state union, or the Republic of Serbia, performed military duties or other duties in the armed action of the undertaking during peace, in order to defend sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity of the SRJ or SCG, or the Republic of Serbia". Then: "As a member of the SRJ Armed Forces, military duties or other duties for military objectives or for state security objectives for the defence of sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity of the SRJ, from 24 March 1999 to 26 June of the same year," so, when it comes to the aggression of the NATO Pact to the SRJ, "as well as persons from the 23rd Defence Act, i.e. persons who participated voluntarily in the war, i.e. armed actions taken in peace if involved in the formation of official security forces of the SFRJ, SRJ, the union of Serbia-Montenegro and the Republic of Serbia", finally. So here you see what the width is. You can see here that everyone who was supposed to be covered is covered. So there's no talking about any discrimination, there's no talking about someone being left out of this bill. So, we said, fighters, members of a fallen fighter's household, wartime wartime disabled and a peacetime military invalid. The fact is that these proposed persons, which I mentioned earlier, have also made a major contribution to national security and to the defence of the sovereignty of the state and that is the key reason why these amendments and additions to the applicable law were necessary. It simply wouldn't be fair, it wouldn't be fair if these faces were left out when it comes to the possibility of buying an apartment under more favourable conditions. The additional reason for the amendments and additions to the applicable law is also the need to specify in which area those persons may be entitled to purchase an apartment under more favourable conditions. Therefore, it is prescribed that the priority for the purchase of an apartment in Belgrade's territory is an employee of security forces, whose place of employment is on the territory of the City of Belgrade, while other members of the security forces covered by this bill, the priority for the purchase of an apartment in Belgrade's territory, if they have a place of residence in Belgrade's territory, on the day of entry into force of this law. Another important change in the applicable law is seen in detailing land for the regular use of the facility in case there are no technical conditions for the formation of a building plot. Therefore, the reason for this is that in practice there were no technical conditions for the formation of the parcel in an earlier prescribed way, so it is possible for the competent authority to issue a building permit for the plot with the obligation to form a cadastrian parcel until a solution on the use of the permit is issued. The area of the building plot will be determined on the basis of a copy of the plot plan, with the basis of the future facility. All of these are reasons, with the recognition of the importance of addressing the housing needs of security forces, for which changes and additions to the applicable law are accessible, and which, for the ultimate purpose, has a meaningful, successful and efficient implementation of this project. If we have in mind the importance and responsibility of the work that security forces are carrying out, especially their importance for the security of the entire state, as well as those that have significantly contributed to earlier war activities to security, the defence of sovereignty, independence and integrity of the state, if we have in particular the greatest number of unresolved housing needs among these persons, precisely among the members of the security forces, especially if we know that this problem is not from yesterday, that this problem has been going on for decades in Serbia, then it is quite clear that the proposed solutions, in fact here it is quite clear how important it is to adopt these proposed solutions, and in order to systematically address the needs of members of the security forces. I have in front of me and a report on the implementation of the housing project for members of the security forces on July 22nd of this year, so on yesterday. I would like to point out some of the most important moments here, which is that after establishing the number of security forces that are interested in buying an apartment, a decision has been made to start seven cities with the construction of apartments for security forces – Vranj, Nis, Kralj, Kragujevac, Novi Sad, Sremska Mitrovica and Belgrade. In this respect, the construction of apartments in those cities is the first phase of this project, while in the second phase of the implementation of this project it is envisaged that apartments are also built in Leskovac, Čačka, Kruševec, Zrenjanin, as well as in other cities that have shown or have real needs and sufficient number of security forces concerned to build apartments. In the first stage, although this is already said, I would like, simply, to be very important and I would like to repeat for the citizens, in the first phase of the project it was planned to build a total of 8.022 apartments in seven cities at the beginning of the realization, i.e. in the first A phase of 1,530 apartments, of which it was already started with the construction of 792 apartments, while in the first B phase it was planned to build another 6,492 apartments. So there's now one table view that talks about all these numbers that I was just talking about. So it's a total of 8.022 apartments. The works, as the minister said earlier, began already in four cities – Vranja, Nis, Kralje and Kragujevac. A total of 792 apartments are in construction. Their value is three billion dinars, while the next period will begin with the construction of apartments in Sremska Mitrovica and Novi Sad, finally after that and in Belgrade. Now I would not take up time or MP groups reading what it looks like at the moment when it comes to Nis, what it looks like when it comes to the process in Vranje and in all the other listed cities, but I would like to say that this law brings benefits to those people who gave their lives for the country, for Serbia, for the defence of the country. For those who have worked and worked to strengthen the security and defence capacities of the state, as well as for members of their families. With this law we send a clear message that we care about these people, that we greatly appreciate their call, that we have not forgotten their sacrifice, that they are extremely high on our list of priorities and we are sending a message to new generations that they love their country and that the state loves them and that tomorrow, if you don't give God, there is a need to defend it, to be ready to defend it and to defend it, and the state will know to reward it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59135	Thank you, colleague Markovic. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to pass laws on the agenda of this session as soon as possible. We're going back to work. In accordance with the order of the MPs, according to the application for a word in the joint, principled and uniform search on the drafts of the law referred to in points 2 and 3 of the agenda, in accordance with Article 96. The word is Dr. Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59136	Ladies and gentlemen, honored present, in the Justice and Reconciliation Programme, one of the fundamental values is construction. In fact, a society that has the capacity to build and that has the orientation of construction actually shows that it has the power to rise and advance. Therefore, every step and every initiative, as well as the adoption of this law, which will allow certain categories to solve the housing issue, is a positive sign in our society. What I want to draw attention to here, is actually border crossings, and I am initiated by this step about the border crossing between Serbia and Macedonia, but I would like to remind you that it is essential that we do not neglect certain places, or certain border crossings that need to be opened. I have spoken before, but also this time I want to repeat, precisely in the case of relations with Macedonia, the specific space of Presevo and Vranja, the Miratovac-Lojani border crossing and the Cer – Sopot border crossing, for which, as I have information, certain preparations have already been made and certain decisions have been made to open these border crossings for citizens. But it's really about a place where citizens are threatened on both sides of the border, so where people actually have to travel tens of miles around to achieve their needs, contacts, relations with relatives, where they have certain properties on both sides of the border, etc. So I would take this opportunity to actually remind the competent authorities that it is of the utmost importance to open these approaches as soon as possible to actually facilitate the citizens of communication. Always, always, but always, it should be reminded that the whole mechanism of the state, including all the competent authorities, exists to make life easier for citizens, to solve their open problems, those that they cannot solve in private. It is also of paramount importance to draw attention to border crossings in the Tutin municipality, according to the municipality of Petnjica, specifically in the village of Djerekara, where there is also an initiative for citizens on both sides of the border, in this case towards Montenegro. So it's about a space where communication is so threatened, where on one side or the other citizens have to simply travel towards the Berans, then the Rozais, then Mech's Cross, then Tutin, then come, let's say, to that space. A similar situation is with the border crossing of the village of Ugao, in the municipality of Sjenica, according to the municipality of Bijelo Polje. It is also about the area where citizens are drastically, extremely endangered and it is of particular importance that, in fact, the competent state authorities update the processing of these initiatives and that the sooner we open these border crossings and allow citizens of normal communication. Of course, now is not the time to open the analysis, which is why even these communications have been neglected by road, because we do not want to go back into the past and remain its hostages, but it is of utmost importance to turn to the future and courageous and determined all together sometimes, hopefully ready to leave some of our party interests and differences aside, but when it comes to the interests of citizens, all citizens, regardless of which party, to which national or confessional community belonged, it is important that we all be on the same side and that we make life easier for the citizens and facilitate communication. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59137	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59138	I thank you, Chairman. Honored Deputy Prime Minister Prof. Zorana, fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, I am Milija Miletic and I come from Svrlig. It is the most beautiful municipality in Serbia, located near the town of Nis. It's the most beautiful city in Serbia. Otherwise, in the Serbian Parliament, I represent the USS. I've been selected from the SNS list. In our PS-NSS-USS parliamentary club, we all represent the interest of our people living in the country, living from the village, representing the interest of both our workers and all those living in Serbia. I, like so far, am going to speak and support the bill, because I think this is what we need to do, precisely because we are giving the opportunity to provide a roof over our heads as soon as possible for all our people who have defended our country, who have participated wherever it has been difficult. These people put all of us in charge, and now we have to do it, provide them with a roof over their heads, that they, for themselves, for their family, have security. The big thing for all of us here is that this law will give us the opportunity to expand and the number of cities and municipalities that will get the opportunity to build apartments with them for people who worked in the police, in the military, for people who defended our country, for those people whose loved ones gave their lives or who stayed in some difficult situation because they might have been wounded. I think this way, and by adopting this law, we're going to give an even greater wind in the back of the building speed. It is my pleasure to build apartments, the beginning of building apartments will start in Vranj, Nis. I have always said that the southeast of Serbia is in a difficult situation, but now all of us who are here to support the development of southeast Serbia, and with the very works, construction and roads, highways, local roads, state roads is a prerequisite for the development of these areas, and in this way, building operations will have a great opportunity and opportunity to employ our people who are hardworking, these builders, from our midst. In Nis, my Smrljjani, the Belopalans, the people of Gadji's Han, the men of Meroshina, the Doljevac. These people will all build and work on building these apartments through what they know. Another thing about Vranj is that there are also a large number of people who are very professional, working and valuable and who will work on building apartments. As far as I'm concerned, as a man who deals with agriculture, I'm sure, and we all know that construction work is a very difficult job, and all those builders involved in these works have to be obliged to eat more because they spend a lot of calories. Because of that, where the building of apartments are, there is also a need for quality food. This quality food will come safely from our climate, from our municipalities, from our villages, because through this need, we will have the opportunity to place quality agricultural products for these people who will work on building apartments. These quality agricultural products may be, will have safe and meat, lambs. It's a cranial lamb, a cranial cheese, even a white male. It's something very calorie, and it'll give our builders the strength to do their job. As for this, all of us living in southeastern Serbia have a quality and healthy environment, we have healthy food, and therefore our agricultural producers who will place their goods for our builders so that they can build and that they can provide a roof over our heads for our people who have defended, who will always defend our country to Serbia. The builders will make these apartments and in those apartments, really, once again, it is my pleasure to have those people who really in charge of all of us in charge of our country to Serbia, because they were always in the first place when it was hard and defending the country. They were with us, those who worked in those security services, and when they were floods and when they were fires, and they really deserved it. So once again, the need for all of us is to build apartments through a construction operation, a large number of people will be employed, and through this operation will be provided a placement for our agricultural producers, who will place their quality goods, and all of this will contribute to the better lives of all our people living and in the country, living from villages, living in these environments, and I am sure that when we build these apartments, we will enter into the business to provide apartments for our medics, so announced our President Vukic, both for our medics, and for our educators, and for all those people who need to do this. The state of Serbia is the state that always thinks of those who worked for it, have fought, have fed, and therefore I think it is necessary for all of us to support this, this law, to get into work as soon as possible, to finish these apartments, to have these people roof over their heads, and on the other hand, to get into the process to expand as quickly as possible and to provide apartments for all of ours, as I just said, medics, medical workers, whether they are doctors or sisters, whether people who serve, who work in medicine, for our educators and for many of our people who need it in this way. We will leave these people here in Nis, Vranj, Svrljig, Književci, Babusnica, we will leave these people to live there, not to go outside the country of Serbia. Once again, honourable Deputy Prime Minister, I really support you because a lot of the things that are done are needed to be done with us in southeastern Serbia. Here, these days you've been in the White Palanca, where you've been working on the end of the highway to Sofia. I think it's good to hire all our civil servants, to be closer to where it works, because only when a man is on the spot can you see how it is and how it should be. As we say, the arm of another person's itch does not scratch. That's why we need to be with our operatives, with our builders and be with them at all times, share both what's good and what's bad. On the other hand, I would like to thank you once again and invite you to be with us and in Srlig now that the road is over and there will be a great good organization, it is "Belmužijada", which will now be at the beginning of August of the month, because through the placement of the product we have the opportunity to meet and see how life is done and how it is good there. Once again, I will vote for this law as an MP for the United Peasants' Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59139	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Predrag Jelenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59140	Thank you, Vice President. A respected minister with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues, my colleague Jovanovic explained in detail everything that has been done and what has been going on with the construction of apartments, so I will be doing the public a few information on what is related to Nis and the construction itself. Nis is scheduled for apartments to be built in two locations. The first location is the village of Stevan Sijedic, where it is during the construction of the 190 apartments, which you announced in your address. The investor is MGSI, the contractor is Turkey's Tasjapi, and the preliminary value of the works is 740m dinars. In this way, the possibility was created that only the settlement was completed and the missing infrastructure was completed in a large, or large part of the settlement itself. This is one good example so that otherwise all the barracks in the city that are standing empty, right now, can be put into office and appeal this way to the Ministry of Defense and with your help from the vice president that the rest of that barracks, which are currently serving as a service for military vehicles, can be made available to the city, if possible. This is also a good example for the second stage, which is foreseen in the work of the barracks Knjaz Mihajlo, or Adria, where some 2,000 more apartments are scheduled to be built. It will also be a magnificent settlement with accompanying facilities, kindergarten, schools etc. This construction will finally create conditions, i.e. conditions for breaking through that very leg of the Sombor boulevard, and thus end the circular ring around the city and reduce the crowds in the part of the city, or part of the township of Pantelius. I hope that the Ministry of Defence will give a positive opinion on the plan it is under construction, but certainly this law is good because it enables this infrastructure development of the city of Nis and creates better living conditions for members of the security forces. A whole new part of the city will be revived, and I urge security forces to report to the competition and apply, or compete for the purchase of apartments. Otherwise, for information, the apartment sales office will be in the new city building on General Milojko Leshanin Street since September, where they will be able to view the apartments. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia will support a set of laws on the agenda of this session in the voting day. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59141	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Vesna Ivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59142	The Honored Chairman, the Honorable Minister with fellow Members, the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on special conditions for the implementation of housing projects for members of the Security Forces is complemented by the existing law adopted in 2018, which concerns the construction of apartments for members of the Security Forces, i.e. for members of the Ministry of Defence, the Army of the Republic of Serbia, the MUP, BIA and the Administration of Criminal Sanctions. What is very important is that these amendments to the law extend the right to purchase apartments under favourable conditions and to combatants, members of the home of a fallen fighter, military people with disabilities and pensioners, who have acquired their pensions in one of those state bodies. This sends a clear message that this government is referring to these categories of security forces and that the state has not forgotten them and must not do so, because they are a pillar of the country's defence and have suffered great sacrifices. The main objective of this bill is to address the largest number of outstanding housing needs of security personnel, but its realisation will significantly contribute to and growth of GDP in construction, employment of the domestic construction industry, thus increasing employment, growth of VAT revenues, an increase in income from property taxes, which will increase local self-government budgets and others. Security forces will be affected by the fact that all the more interested, on equal terms, will be able to resolve their housing issue permanently with the conditions prescribed. Short term, simpler, faster, and more favourable conditions can be reached by the apartment. The apartments will be built according to the highest standards of profession and profession with full energy efficiency, and local self-government is required in the territory where these apartments are built to ensure that prices are acceptable and far lower than marketable. Unfortunately, immediately after 2000, the collapse and devastation of the importance and roles of the military and police began. It took a long time to restore the role and reputation of security forces. Now and this way, the importance and respect of all security forces is restored. This further motivates the members of these forces and creates an even more quality and satisfying fit in this sector, because a man who is satisfied and cared for, as he and his family, that he will defend and preserve his country in which he and his family can live a quality life. The reminders for the sake of this, the project to build apartments for security forces began, if I am not mistaken, in 1998, 1999, during the SPS government which thus showed that the concern of members of the defence and security forces, who fought bravely and many also gave their lives to defend the country, is one of the priorities of that period. In addition, the idea of social justice and taking care of a man, as a major value, was the determination and politics of the party to which I belong. The first phase of building apartments for these purposes will be completed in 2020. In some cities, stone foundations have already been laid. The first phase covers cities of Kragujevac, Kraljevo, Nis, Vranje, Sremska Mitrovica, Novi Sad and Belgrade. As far as this bill is concerned, the SPS parliamentary group will support it in the voting day. I must add one comment that also other social categories, and especially health and education workers, want to resolve their housing issues under the same and similar conditions, so I sincerely hope that, in some future period, the law will be passed that under favourable conditions, they can solve their housing problems. So we'll keep a lot of young doctors and professors here who unfortunately leave quite often now. By addressing housing needs, but also by increasing profits both in health and in education, many young and educated will build a future in their country, not outside of it. As regards the proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Northern Macedonia, the two countries agree to establish joint controls at the border crossing for international road traffic between Presevo-Tabanovce. The agreement was signed in Belgrade on 12 July 2019, starting with friendly and good neighbourly relations and the need to further improve long-term co-operation between the two countries, as well as the desire to improve the movement of citizens and traffic of goods between Serbia and the Republic of Northern Macedonia, as it is known to be an extremely transit border crossing. The Agreement provides for the writing of protocols on its implementation within 90 days of the entry into force. Control to monitor the implementation of the provisions of this agreement will be carried out by a mixed committee whose party will appoint the chairman of its work of the Commission and four other members and their deputies. The agreement is another indicator that Serbia is leading a good neighbourly policy and that it really wants peace and stability in the region, as well as good friendly relations with all neighbours. The SPS parliamentary group will also support this bilateral agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59143	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Jahja Fehratovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59144	I thank the chairman. The respected ministerial with a co-worker, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, as you have already heard from the academics Zukorlic, the Justice and Reconciliation Party in every way imitates every initiative that achieves improvements in the quality of life of citizens, and these initiatives of construction are extremely important and multiple useful and of course it is important for us to expand this moment when conditions and new categories are acquired, especially health workers, educators and all those who really need to resolve the housing issue, especially which would probably enable a little relief of population draining, especially these categories. Otherwise, the multiplicity of these projects is not only about solving the status and housing issues of those that are needed, but about starting an entire industry, a large number of our people, employment, and that actually strengthens the overall standard, especially people who are from the defence of construction. What has offered me attention and what I would like to point out from here is the importance of protecting people who work on the building and the possibility that their working conditions to that extent ensure that the unloved scenes that were happening in the past don't happen. Of course, in Belgrade it's much more serious, much more quality. So, for example, today she's got a photo of a building in Novi Pazar where on some tenth floor, there's a simple construction worker with no skeletons, without any protective equipment, just hanging on to a colleague, trying to do his job. We are happy that a certain construction revolution has affected both Novi Pazar and Sandzak and we are very pleased and it really enables and improves the quality of life of an ordinary man, but there are significant shortcomings and failures in the protection of construction workers. Their safety is not to the extent provided that it should be, as it is by standards, what it is according to the rules and which, ultimately, these construction workers are not all protected in terms of serious health insurance, which would have been in the event that these injuries could happen to them to help them simply to resuscitate in the most quality health institution. Also, it would be very important to take a little more control when building permits are given, that all standards must be respected because, for example, in smaller places, we have a problem in these narrow streets, in these tight sockets where construction permits are given for large residential buildings, and that it does not take care of the greenery required by law, it does not take into account the sufficient number of parking spaces, protection and not only of construction workers, but also of ordinary people living nearby, and this creates a really large number of problems, and in addition, any serious construction should also be accompanied by additional construction of infrastructure, strengthened by the fact that the electricity network strengthens so many housing units, sewage, communal, water network. We already live in our cities, in some kind of a time bomb, and it's really a big expansion of building cities, and for 10, 15 years, it's not increasing, it's not improving the power grid, it's not improving the capacity of municipal infrastructure facilities, which can lead to catastrophic consequences. That is why my appeal to both the minister and the ministry is that, indeed, a little bit more and more strictly, is taken into account in respect of the respect of everything prescribed in quality by legal solutions, but as in the fields, workers sometimes fail, especially when it comes to the protection of workers on construction buildings and, of course, the impact of these facilities on the environment, on the living space and everything that requires getting a new quality building space, such as one block of buildings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59145	The word has a minister, Mrs. Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59146	Thank you. I think you're absolutely right, we must always make every effort, to take care of safety at work. This applies both to local city labour inspections and construction, of course, to the Republic. Also, I have to say that the Ministry of Labour is very active in this regard and I don't think there's a construction site in cities where they're not present. Unfortunately, certain situations happen, and I believe that all of this is being learned and that we will have it as little as possible, that I hope that we get to the zero, that it really doesn't happen. On the other hand, the fact is that in Serbia and how it is built. I will remind you that in 2014, there were something like a thousand construction sites in general in the territory of all Serbia, and today we have more than 40,000 construction sites, according to all data. In that sense, I believe that we will think about increasing the capacity of the inspections themselves, because I think it is necessary in this regard. As for the issue of construction permits, as well as the location conditions, they are issued electronically. There are precisely clear conditions that all public authorities are obliged to give. It also refers to Electrodistribution and they can all give conditions when all other technical standards are met. Secondly, they are the ones who determine exactly what needs to be built additionally, etc. There's no issuing a building permit until there's all the conditions. That's absolutely impossible. If they exist in some construction projects the need for an impact assessment study, it is also done. So there's no issuing building permits more like it used to be. First, it was not even a building permit, but it waited for years and was given with unusual conditions. What's important for Novi Pazar, which is why I reported specifically, is that when we talk about apartments for police, military and security forces, there are 216 interested in the latest 2018 poll. So in Novi Pazar, we'll also be building buildings, or we'll be doing housing, and in that sense, in accordance with this law, I believe somewhere next year, and I think it's just as important as the infrastructure that needs to be done. In September, work begins on the reconstruction of the Novi Pazar-Tutin road, which seemed to me to be waiting for, for a long period of years, and that is also important for the citizens of this part of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59147	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Slavica Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59148	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Madam Minister, with fellow Members of the People's Parliament, today we are talking about, in my opinion, an extremely important Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Special Conditions for the Implementation of the Project for the Construction of Apartments for Security Forces, which is being extended to fighters, families of fallen fighters, wartime military disabled and peacetime military disabled. Addressing the housing issue for all those covered by this law should remain a priority in the coming period until the last problem is resolved, because these people deserve it, either because of the nature of the work they are doing or because of what they have given to our country in its defense. Realisation of this project will have a positive impact on GDP growth in the area of construction, on the employment of the domestic construction industry, as well as on increasing employment. Since the law defines in Article 14, which I would especially like to point out, the construction of a housing building for a collective housing will be primarily used by construction products, materials, equipment, the installation of domestic producers in participation of at least 80%. What does this mean for construction producers in Serbia? I'm going to provide some data that I think is important to hear, first of all, for the production of cement that records growth in the previous years. The production of cement in the last year was at two million tonnes, which is 9% compared to the previous year or 23% of the increase compared to 2014. Cement manufactured in Serbia is sold on the domestic market. It's non-exportable material and the cement industry is currently working with 60% of its capacity. We're about 2008, when we're talking about planned production and sales, and we're hoping that with these investments and this way, when we're even talking about investments in the domestic construction industry, we're going to be able to get close to the planned plan, which is 2.8 million tons on an annual basis. Unlike cement industry, the brick industry, i.e. The production of planks, blocks and ceramic tiles works at full capacity. More than 50% of this production is exported with a tendency to increase domestic sales. Thanks to large infrastructure projects, I mean primarily on the road, sales of these types of construction products have been stepped up because of significantly improved i.e. developed construction activities in these parts of Serbia. In only last year, 800T of the building block for construction was produced in Serbia, of which 2/3 were sold on the domestic market. There is a significant increase in demand for thermal block due to new requirements when we talk about energy efficiency and, of course, a major investment trend, when we talk about construction, where this product has found full application and significantly raised the efficiency of the business of factories dealing with the production of this type of product. Production was launched in two other factories in Serbia. Four plans are to increase production and naturally invest in new production processes. I listed these two types of products, because to the most extent they are used for construction and for this type of product placed on the foreign market is not a solution, because every kilometer only additionally collects this product, which makes it less competitive. This is why projects in the Republic of Serbia are of paramount importance for domestic producers that produce according to European standards and have brought their production to the most modern level, which meets, of course, all new requirements and a new demand for construction products. At the time of recession, the construction industry suffers most, of course at the time of recovery it carries the same greatest burden. It represents a base for employing the workforce of all profiles, and we are witnessing today that we have a large and significant percentage of the employment of construction workers, but also a lack of construction workers in Serbia. At the end of last year, we adopted the Construction Products Act, which entered into force on 6 November 2018. The new regulation aimed to further encourage the development of construction and to enable building facilities to be safe, environmentally acceptable, preserving life and health throughout the life cycle of construction facilities. The new regulation should also give an additional incentive to develop construction and to allow building facilities to be safe and environmentally acceptable, safeguarding the life and health of people throughout the life cycle of a construction facility. I would like to say that a year has been planned for the adoption of sublegal acts in accordance with the new Construction Products Act and that the ministry has worked very hard to comply with these deadlines in the previous period. What is significant, and what has been adopted in the meantime since the sublegal acts and I will point out, because I think it is important, this is the Regulation on the content and manner of making the declaration, the performances, and then the Regulation on the requirements for the designation of the body to assess the verification of the constitutionality of performance, is further sent to the opinion of the proposal for a Regulation on how to implement, assess and verify the constitutionality of the performance of construction products. The rules that had been in place so far have not been changed for 20 years and have called for standards that have already been withdrawn from application. Therefore, it was necessary to draw up entirely new amendments and additions to existing regulations and representatives of manufacturers within their associations, but during the adoption of the new Construction Products Act, they formed working groups that worked intensively to amend existing regulations. Of course, support for producers was great, which was largely supported by the Institute for the Study of Materials, the Institute for Standardisation of Serbia, and here I would particularly like to stress that we had great support from the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure. Whenever we addressed with a request for the presence of the Ministry's representatives at our meetings, where there were indeed a lot of concerns that had to be addressed during the adoption of these very complicated regulations, the Ministry always responded to our demands and attended meetings of very competent people who in an adequate way really contributed to the drafting of these documents. It is also a great support for manufacturers in each segment of the adoption of these regulations. Thanks to this co-operation, a whole new regulation proposal has been made, as it was not possible to introduce certain changes currently in the procedure at the Ministry of Construction. It is known that working groups have been formed, that we have received requests from the Ministry of Delegation before the producer's representative. It is very commendable that, in this part of the adoption of this law, the Ministry paid particular attention to the presence of the manufacturer in the adoption of these acts and that the word of the manufacturer in this part is highly respected. I think it's really important when we talk about making these rules. There have been different comments during the adoption of the Construction Products Act, that this law requires additional investment, that the establishment of factory control will require a lot of money for producers, that some producers will close down, however, I also spoke about it during the assembly debate. This industry is export-oriented and the establishment of control within the factory has already been done. There were some factories that didn't have it and they did it in the meantime. For the smaller part, these are usually smaller producers who have not invested in forming a process of control in the factory, they have the possibility of subletting equipment in the accreditation body and thus can get an adequate compliance correction which will solve their problem on the domestic market. In this way, all manufacturers, with a wave, are prepared for the full implementation of the new law, which will be fully applied in our country by November, because I believe that the proposals for certain sublegal acts for which I have information that are being prepared are also adopted by 8 November, when the deadline for adoption of sublegal acts is. Serbia has a stable production of construction material and given everything I have previously said, you will probably agree with me that the importance of such investments is very important for the construction industry industry in general, for the employment of the workforce, for the overall prosperity of the country, for every country. A country that has a stable production of construction material and a stable construction operation has no reason to fear. In the coming period, we must certainly make additional efforts to further strengthen existing factories, and existing construction operations, and create conditions for the development of a strategy for the development of construction for the coming periods and create conditions for the organised appearance of domestic construction on the foreign market, because you will agree with me that this is the perspective of every construction, every country and ours. Social Democratic Party of Serbia MPs will support the bill in a voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59149	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic. He's not here. The word has a folk MP, Serbia's Filipovic. Here's a colleague of Filipovic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59150	Thank you, President-in-Office, distinguished minister with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, as you Mrs. Mihajlovic said nicely about the policy of one government and ministry, the best say the results achieved during the term of office of this government and you as minister. So much has been done from your portfolio, very specific things, everything that's been behind us for decades just based on ideas and naked stories, only on pre-election promises, so when the elections go through, it's like a soap bubble, and forget it. It was promising, and here I remember about twenty years ago, I was just listening to the story of Corridor 10, so it's gonna be, and we're finishing it next year, so next year, there's a big investment coming, so it's not even going to end in Corridor 10, it's not going to arrive at these magical, magical investments that we're being promised. In 2012, it comes to the power of the SNS and begins to realize everything that someone called ideas. Starts building roads, starts to think intensively about how to provide housing for those people who have not for objective reasons been able to enable themselves and their families, in this case, members of our security forces, those who have made a fine sacrifice of many and their health, their lives, have given everything that a man can give for this country, and some have only spoken and boasted of it through various patriotic songs, through asphyxiation, through the stories of patriotism and thought that the greatest possible patriots were singing some patriotic song. In this case, we sang that song, but in a way that allows these people to solve their living issues. To solve what might have been the hardest thing in their life to do, because they were unable to financially, as said the minimum price of squares in Belgrade 1,000 euros or 1,200, 1,300, to allow themselves to house their family at these prices. In this way, as a state, we show gratitude to these people, at least, but we also show the responsibility of those people who decide to defend their country, to sacrifice themselves for it, to know that this sacrifice is not in vain, to know that they are not sacrificed for a country, to some people who will forget them tomorrow, who will only talk about it and their exploits, to win, to celebrate through stories and texts, through songs, what they have done for the country, and that the country does not respond positively to them. And this is good. That's a good solution and that's what I'd say a good thing for our country, not just now and not just for those people who are going to solve today's housing issue, but for those who are going to do it tomorrow. I invite you as a MP to consider the possibility of helping young couples tomorrow. We're talking a lot about Natalie, we're talking about the white plague, that as a people, we're disappearing, that there's less of us, that young married couples who may already have two or three children, and they don't have the opportunity to solve the housing issue, that we can find the opportunity to help them, to solve this existential problem, and that they too solve the housing issue. Of course, those young couples who have no children for reasons they may not have an apartment. When it comes to integrated border crossings, it is also a good thing, another thing that was once just an idea now being realized on a proposal from the president of the SNS, the president of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, and, of course, with the support we have, financially, for the project, about 40m euros, and a total of about 90m euros in this region. We should have such integrated transitions, of course we should, and I'm sure we'll have them in the future with all the countries we're bordering, because that reduces costs, reduces the waiting time at the borders and facilitates the flow of people, capital flow, the flow of goods. That's good for Serbia, that's good for the whole region. That's how we show responsibility again, responsibility in policymaking, and that's where I go back to the beginning of my presentation, where I said that one policy characterises results, not ideas. With ideas and suggestions you go to elections, with results you go to the citizens, before the end of your term and you say, we did for the previous four years over 300 kilometers of highways, it's good, some people work there, for hundreds of companies from Serbia, there work on thousands of workers from this country, there are thousands of families who receive profits from it, live from it, allow further progress of our country, there is an increase in the flow of vehicles through our country from about thirty and some thousand to over 50 million vehicles that passed through our country in 2018. This is how we solve these infrastructure problems now and we come up with that the procedural or border problems are now the ones we will solve in the future. So we are no longer just on ideas, we are now on concrete results that only those who are not well-intentioned can say that they are not results, they can criticise that you or other ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, President Aleksandar Vukic, are visiting, actively and construction sites and works. Anyway, what do you want to do about it? Well, you don't have to sit in cafes, like the opposition, one part of the opposition, or just take pictures of yourself in the media or in the newspapers, but to be with those workers, to hear what their problems are and do it actively, and that's good, to show people directly on the ground that you're interested in working conditions like these workers, and at what rate projects are realized that are started. All the praise for your work, the work of the ministry you run, and I am convinced that in the future we will be able to boast of even better and even greater results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59151	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Ruzica Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59152	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, when the Special Conditions Act was adopted for the realisation of the House Building Project for Security Forces, we have repeatedly pointed out to you that we have nothing against this idea and that members of the Security Force need to resolve the housing issue, but we have also pointed out many of the problems you will encounter during the application of this law, as well as certain shortcomings. The changes proposed and concerning the expansion of the circle of people entitled to purchase an apartment under favourable conditions, which were not covered, or fighters, members of the homes of fallen fighters and military disabled persons, are good and that is what we Serbian radicals pointed to when the law was passed. It's a good thing you took it too late in the end. In fact, we pointed out that fighters, children of fallen fighters in the last country wars, then military people with disabilities and all those who fought for the state and defended Serbian national interests, should have the opportunity to resolve the housing issue in the way provided for by this law. And the problem is also, we have done it through the amendments that we have submitted and we are trying to solve, which is only one group of people, meaning, only members of the security forces, who need to solve the housing issue, i.e. that other categories of people such as single parents, health workers, young doctors, scientists, young couples, etc. should be included. They should also be able to buy apartments under favourable conditions and the state must be equal to each citizen. You say that the area of building apartments for security forces is monitored through the effects expressed in the context of strengthening the national security system, but do not forget that young scientists, doctors, teachers, that they contribute to the progress of society and that they should also, under market conditions, come to the apartment, i.e. to enable them to solve their existential issue in the same way as security forces. When it comes to selling prices for apartments, it has varied in recent years, so we have a promise from 2014 to build apartments for young couples at a price of 380 euros per square metre and here, now, this law, after five years, says the price will be up to 500 euros per square metre, depending on the city in which the apartments are built. This price is acceptable on condition that it does not change again. The price of a square meter is significant and it must certainly be proportionate to the level of purchasing power of the population. However, the problem that security forces will encounter, as well as all of these categories of people that I have previously listed, if you accept our amendments will apply to them, means, interested security forces, which is about 19,000 people who have declared themselves wanting to resolve their housing issues under these conditions, they will be able to apply to business banks. The first and basic question is - will they be able to apply to their incomes and will they be able to submit requests to buy an apartment under these conditions? Also, the big problem is that there is not a single state bank that will allow them to raise credit on favourable terms, which means that all interested people can compete to buy an apartment and meet all conditions of competition, but the big question is whether there will be realisation itself, precisely because of low income and the absence of a state bank that will allow credit to be raised under favourable conditions, low interest rates, without participation, etc. The impact analysis of the regulations raises the question in Annex 5, which is the key issues for the analysis of financial effects and the issue of two says - whether the financial resources to implement the selected option need to be provided in the budget or from other sources of funding, and which, where we have the answer that the implementation of this project will be financed from bank lending, while the issue of 3, how the implementation of the selected option will affect international financial commitments, and then 4, 5 and 6, that I no longer read them, has no answers. What we would ask you is -- what is the bank and why we don't know, and we should know exactly what the bank is, because the loans will be at lower interest rates, what are these interest rates and if there was any chance that these interest rates would be even lower and the credit conditions would be even better? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59153	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Violeta Lutovac Djurdjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59154	Thank you, Chairman. We are today discussing a very important bill, a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on special conditions for the realisation of housing projects for members of security forces. Since we are starting with data that the largest number of outstanding housing issues is among the members of the security forces, it is concluded from here that there is an exceptional necessity for the adoption of amendments and the addition of such a bill, for a number of reasons, and above all to speed up the realisation of the project itself, which will also lead to a solution to the housing issue, and I would say solutions to the life issue, not only for those who are members of the security forces, but also for their families. Realising this project directly affects national security policy, and we know that national security policy is part of the common state policy. By developing national security policy, we have a direct impact on both the political and economic, cultural, social and comprehensive social development of our own Republic of Serbia. In order to achieve more meaningful implementation of the project itself, it is necessary to make changes and additions to the applicable law in order to specify which areas where the purchase of the apartment can be made under more favourable conditions, both for persons members of the Security Service and for extended categories of persons, for fighters, families of fallen fighters, for wartime military people, for peacetime military disabled persons. The objective of the change is absolutely clear. This is a more meaningful, more efficient and successful implementation of a project that is of great importance to our country's national security, and has not, in addition, deviated from the basic constitutional principle of property protection, which is prescribed by Article 58. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Realisation of the project will also lead to an increase in gross domestic products in the construction industry itself, as 80% of building materials will be domestic, domestic construction industry employment, as well as an increase in the number of employees, which is very positive and commendable, based on an increase in the number of people who will be engaged in the work themselves during the implementation of this project. By amending and supplementing this current law, we clearly define both the way and the conditions and criteria, as well as the process of realising the project of building apartments for members of the Ministry of Defence, members of the BIA Service, police, Serbia Army, fighters, families of fallen fighters. Article 3 also defines a priority, that the priority for buying an apartment under more favourable conditions is those listed persons who have no settled housing issue, and that if a person who has a settled housing issue, which is not appropriate, or not satisfied with that apartment, he can only purchase a new apartment if a person who has not solved the housing issue is not interested. Realising this project to build housing for security forces, we directly influence the increase in the number of people who will solve their living issue, our own life issue, and we also have a positive impact on local self-government, because we will solve the issue of persons living in local self-government, on the one hand, and local self-government will also have income from the collection of property taxes after the construction of the apartment. That all of this is not a marketing trick, as some have called it, and that we are dealing with and with the most difficult problems we have already shown the first phase of building apartments in Nis, Vranje, Kralje, Kragujevac, a total of 792 apartments. The plan is also to build apartments in Novi Sad, Sremska Mitrovica and Belgrade. This 792 apartment, the value of this investment is three billion dinars, and in the first phase it is planned to build 8.022 apartments in a total of seven cities. In the second phase, the implementation of this project, including Kruševac, will be possible in other cities. I would like to express hope that this project will continue, as our President of the Republic, Mr Aleksandar Vukic, announced several months ago and that this project will also be implemented for health workers, for young couples, for scientists, which is another proof that we are leading policy in the right direction and that we are thinking about the future of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59155	Thank you. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59156	To remind, for public reasons, that today we are talking about amendments and additions to the law providing specific conditions for resolving housing security forces issues. We passed that law last year, or you passed it last year, was in May, I think. All the questions we asked back then, we could ask now. We didn't have the answers to those questions at the time, we don't have any now. Here, Rose Nikolic has asked some of the key questions. Of course, we don't have the answers to those questions. The only thing that really is good in this bill is that under special conditions housing will be able to solve fighters, families of fallen fighters, wartime military disableds and peacetime military people with disabilities. But that's something we talked about last year, and we insisted that it immediately enters the basic law, whose amendments and additions are now being discussed. We have now suggested that this circle of faces be expanded, that under the same favourable conditions the housing of security, allow the provision of apartments to young married couples with multiple children, single parents, young doctors, nurses, educators, scientists, researchers, families with special needs. There are probably more categories, but it seems to us that these are priority and that if we really want to do something right in the state of Serbia, all these categories must be able to solve their housing issues under favourable conditions. We constantly hear that he complains about doctors leaving, nurses leaving, scientists leaving, researchers abandoning Serbia's educated people, among other things because they can't solve the housing issue. Many say – they cannot form a family. That's why they can't get a job, if they win eventually, they work for small wages. There's simply no conditions for a normal life. This is not just what these Zorani's "other Serbs" say, but it's a fact and it's every step of the way. We really want to help the state accept our amendments to help all these people and finally stop moving everything that's worth it and it's from Serbia. What else did we propose these amendments for? To help you not have to do it again in a few months, if you believe what Alexander Vukitch said, that you have to change the law again. Now I'm going to remind, first of all, the public. Zorana Mihajlovic said earlier that these apartments would be built at 400, 430, 450 and 500 euros, depending on the location, depending on where they are being built, but I didn't record it all, it doesn't matter. It's the other thing that matters. Aleksandar Vukic declares, October 15, 2018 – for the military and police apartments will be built at a ransom price of 300 to 350 euros per metre square metre. So, October 15th last year, when we already passed this law. Because of what I'm about to say, we submitted amendments on June 4, 2018, Vukic announces 50,000 cheap apartments for young couples. The same June 4th in the same place, Ana Brnabic says she expects 5,203 apartments for young couples, those promised by Vukic by the end of 2020. Vukic says on December 5th 2017 – for young scientists and couples of 450 euros square meters for apartments that will be provided to them. The first results are expected in three years. So that's what he said on December 5, 2017. You see how we want to help you not to deny Wolfie, but to bring in when you realize this, that you have the law. Vukic says on June 4th 2018 – it will be cheap apartments for nurses, doctors, young couples. I hope you'll adopt our amendment so you don't mind him. On the same day Ana Brnabić says – I expect, so on June 4, 2018, I expect that apartments in Nis and Vranj will be completed by the end of 2019 and thoughts of apartments for young doctors, nurses, young couples. Now, maybe we don't know something, so you could tell us if they're starting at what stage? It'll be the end of 2019 soon, so let's see how much it's done. There was news yesterday about these apartments that are covered by this law that we are now changing, regarding members of the security service, that some of these buildings are missing permits. Is that true, I ask you, and I'd like to know? Given these changes to the law as you plan, it's not impossible at all. Then the pearl over the pearls, the other day, Alexander Vukitch came to visit Zemun, the Earth Gate. It's really nice, it's not a new settlement, it's a new village, it's called that part of Zemun, it's built beautiful buildings, in a beautiful location. According to the people who went in, a very high-quality building is being built and the price of a square meter of these apartments is 1,300 euros. I haven't checked, but it's kind of like this, and nothing's disputed. What's interesting about this? Looking and praising those apartments in the Zemun gates, Vukic says, I invite members of the service, so I quote it all, I don't make anything up, you can check everything if you didn't follow it then. He says, I call on security officers to come to the Earth gates and see what these apartments are like and theirs, only they don't know where and when. Is it possible that people, as little children, come and see that toy so if you're good, we'll buy it for you. Why are we stressing this? Because, and someone here said, I think they said even one of the MPs in power, that these apartments are built on the peripheries, which is a fact... on the peripheries of the place where it's being built, which is absolutely unacceptable. We don't, I suppose, make ghettos for the security service, and now more, fighters, disableds, families of fallen fighters, etc. Why do these "earth gates"... They're made there three, four buildings, why isn't one separate, for example. for this category? If 1300 euros are sold, the state must have the obligation to make up for the difference and make up for at least 500 euros, if you do not want these, as Vucic said 300 to 350 euros, per square metre. No, you're looking for some locations that are cheapest in themselves, and at these locations, you're building these apartments. You know, these locations are cheaper plots, so the construction itself isn't more realistic than the one you're offering, and they buy people out there crying, at those locations where you build their apartments, the same price would come to them. So you're not doing anything very special here. I say again, we support that you are trying to do something, we hope that at least some of it will be realized, but, just smile, Mrs. Mihajlović, I have read to you now everything the president of your break has told you, so you see what you will see and how you will be able to finish your apartments by 2019 today, and they haven't even started yet. Now, two, three things, three things specifically related to the very provisions of this bill. In Article 2. that is the existing Article 3. you changed the point 12. and it now reads like this – the land for regular use of the facility is a building plot under the building and a plot of 1 meter around the building, i.e. the land under the building with a maximum of five meters around the building, in case there are no technical conditions for forming a plot with one meter around the building. Now, this is how little Perica imagines urbanism. This is really amazing. A meter, if he can't, five feet, two, three... You didn't plan to first form in accordance with urban conditions to form a plot, and then build, and I'll explain it to you in the next article that I want to comment on, but what you do. You know what the area is needed for regular building maintenance, that term is used for regular building maintenance, that term is used, yes, for God's sake. Furthermore, you say – the authority responsible for issuing a building permit solution, before forming a cadastrian plot for regular use of the facility can issue a building permit on a building plot representing land for the regular use of the facility within the meaning of Article 3, which I have just commented, with the obligation to form a cadastral plot until a solution on the use of the permit is issued. I've seen a lot of things, but I haven't seen this. So you're issuing a building permit, and you don't have a building plot. So, what's your building permit for? On, part of the plot, left, right, in the middle, on the corner, on the...? This wasn't even done 100 years ago, and here you boast of some digitization, some wonders, so I guess first you have to form a building plot, then build on that building plot. Another member I'd like to comment on of the authority responsible for issuing the construction... Oh, no, that's the one I've already commented on. I'm sorry. Which refers to the formation of a building plot, i.e. after obtaining a building permit, which in our opinion absolutely cannot be acceptable. So, you have to arrange every urban plot, you have to form a plot before a building permit is issued. I really don't know how it's possible to issue a building permit on a plot that will be formed. What if when a plot is formed that the border of the plot goes through the hallway of an apartment in a building that you built, what are you going to do? Are you going to tear down the building or build a new plot? So these changes are not good for you, it's good that you want to build apartments under these conditions for both fighters, fallen fighters, their families and wartime people, military people with disabilities and peacetime people, but you need to finally do what the president promises you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59157	The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59158	Thank you, Chairman. Several things are problematic, but I would like to point out for the citizens of Serbia what it really is when it comes to Serbian President Alexander Vukic, when it comes to the tour of the Zemun gate of the country. So, the title in the daily list was Vucic looked at the security view and told – so could the medics and young couples. Serbian President Aleksandar Vucic and Prime Minister Ana Brnabic visited the state-run housing project for security forces in the area of the Zemun gate today. Vukic called on security forces interested in buying an apartment with the help of the Serbian government, to look at a view apartment in the village, and to see what they could buy. He also told the Serbian government to examine opportunities to ensure under similar conditions that apartments can buy nurses, doctors, young couples and so on. So, the truth is only in that part that Vucic was in the Zemunic settlement, the Earth Gate, everything else represents the devastation of the public. When it comes to health care professionals, educated workers, education workers, education, young married couples, families with more children, scientific investigators, etc. These are all categories that really need help, but these are categories that SNS cares about and think about. In particular, we have so far shown that we are concerned and that we are the only one able to do something and make out of the many promises that the predecessors made. Who raised all these people's salaries? Well, the SNS, or the government headed by SNS and Alexander Vucic, and salary increases, therefore, and the scientific investigators you mentioned, I will remind you that 12,000 or 12,500, even people belonging to the category of scientific investigators, are now being assisted by the project carried out by the Serbian Government. (President: Bringing the end. Just one more sentence and I'm done. When it comes to buildings that will be built, apparently, only on the periphery, so it's not true. Here, specifically for Nis, and that's what our MPs from Nis can say. So in Nis, apartments are built three kilometers from the center. So it belongs to a wider center. It's not the periphery, and it's not true, simply, that apartments are built only on some peripheral parts of the city. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59159	Thank you. Right on the line, the People's Messenger of the Faith of the Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59160	There's no demagogue against arguments. We haven't heard a single argument about what I said, but it's important to point out, again, for the public, first of all, that no one gives these apartments to anyone. So, good conditions are being created that these people's apartments will pay, they'll get loans, we don't know from exactly who you're hiding it from, you're not going to tell us, and we're saying that at the same price they can build such apartments or houses at the locations that you're offering, which is discriminatory. Why do these people... Why are you looking at me like that? Why do these people... I'm banging? I don't know, here's the thing, Zoran says I'm banging, so I almost got confused. It's just amazing what we're gonna hear from her, but it doesn't matter. We've gotten used to it. The problem is, we don't know which bank is going to be giving these loans. That's the first thing. The other thing is that you discriminate against these people by giving them these favourable credits at locations that are usually the cheapest in these places. Why didn't you redecorate the barracks? You have barracks in every place. Why didn't you redecorate? You sold the barracks, so someone else was making apartments and selling... In particular, in Zemun, Novogradska Street, for example, where there was a barracks, apartments are sold at 1,500 euros per square metre. Why didn't you do it for the military faces? Of course, it didn't occur to you. As for a colleague who had just begun to read, I think he was texting him, that he had an accidently his phone, so I expected at least to read another quote from him, since, of course, none of this one was able to deny it.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59161	Right on line, MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59162	They haven't been sold, Mr. Chairman, casarizing everything. We didn't sell any barracks, the yellow ones did it before us. So you mixed us up with someone else. When it comes to the unfavourable prices of these apartments, when it comes to unfavourable loans, when it comes to the question that banks will ever borrow such a thing, I have to read that the Post Office has created and printed the brochure where the conditions are stated, it needs documentation for preliminary financial approval, conditions of housing approval, housing credit indexed in euro with insurance, client costs, apartment structure, etc. Here, let's take one representative example as an example. So for a one-room apartment of 36 square meters and a gross purchase price of 440 euros per metre square, the purchase value of immovable property will be 15,840 euros. Clients' participation in the case is 1.584 euros. It'll be a part of it. It will be the obligation of one who pleads to receive a loan. The repayment deadline is up to 360 months, and the monthly war is 52.69 euros. If you're trying to tell me right now that this is unfavourable, I really don't know what to say. Isn't it something that will directly represent benefits for someone who doesn't have real estate, who hasn't been able to secure real estate his whole life? So now it will be possible for 1.584 euros, and 52 euros will be his monthly war. If this isn't convenient, I really don't know what to say about it. Thank you. (Miss Radeta: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59163	Fellow Radetas, you have the right to reply, but you will be able to do so only after your break because the proposed representative has to attend the meeting of the government, which starts at 1400 hours. I'm setting a break. We'll continue work at 3 p.m.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59164	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs. Mihajlovic, we continue to work. The right to the replica has Verica Radet, in line with what I have previously chaired, Veroljub Arsic has transferred that to begin, so we will continue, as is the order. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59165	This replica would certainly make more sense if it were allowed right before the break, when it was her time, but well, anyway, I'm going to use these two minutes to say that in that previous part of the session, we asked which one was the bank that would grant loans. We asked if anyone who wanted to be able to get that loan, and we're talking about loans to buy apartments at the advantage of security services and will now be added to wartime military people, to families of fallen fighters and fighters. So instead of answering that question, I'm showing myself here a catalogue of the Post Office, which is otherwise the only state bank in Serbia and certainly the state should force, exactly, the Post Office, but then here we actually see how much participation there is going to be, how much war, etc. And a colleague says, "If this is unfavourable, then I do not know what you expect, what is good for you?" We didn't talk about favorably, we didn't talk about unfavorable. We asked who and we keep asking, because what we heard earlier wasn't the answer to our question, so the question still stands, which banks, which banks the state will make, because I guess the state has to make some kind of deal to give these loans and will anyone interested in buying an apartment under these conditions be able to get a loan? Will he be limited by profit, pension, disability? So these are the questions we are looking for to answer so that we know whether everyone interested or just certain will be able to exercise the right under this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59166	Thank you, colleague Radeta. The word has Vladimir Orlic. Here you go, straight to the replica. I'm sorry, what? Who? )
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59167	Thank you. Have you forgotten how we conducted this debate? By contesting that these projects were realistically implemented, by contesting that an apartment was built in the land settlement, which is directly for the purpose of realising this project, and then Mr. Markovic here read that these allegations are absolutely not true. Like he said. The only thing that was true in everything that was said was that Alexander Vukic was in the territory of the municipality of Zemun and he was dealing with this problem. So, once again, what is presented as a pilot-room, it is a picture of these apartments that will be realised exactly in accordance with this law and related to these projects, at the prices that we have talked about today and at the prices that, as much as anyone is trying to do, I am not able to hear any example that there are more favourable, more competitive for the people who are directly concerned by this project, better in any way. I haven't been able to hear it, probably because there's no example that there's no solution that's more favourable than these 400 or 430, 450, 500 euros, as much as you want, depending on the city and depending on the specific object, the square or the structure of the apartment. Has anyone in this country before Alexander Vukic and the SNS been trying to help resolve the housing issue of people employed in these structures, since the question has been asked, in turn, by the list referred to in Article 1 of this Law? And you can see exactly who these programs apply to both these changes and additions, and we're even expanding that circle of people. So no one has dealt with this way, no one has offered these solutions to these people and no one is trying to see these amendments and the additions of the law extends the circle of faces that are coming out this way before Alexander Vukic, SNS, no one. And this apartment that he showed, on that occasion, during a visit to one part of the municipality of Zemun, is an apartment that was built not by any social criteria or criteria relating to cheap apartments. On the contrary, when we adopted the law originally here we said and that stands and day-to-day, look at these photos that go along with the following material as it looks. They're apartments of top quality. These are the best possible materials, but today we manage to finance it because we have a good situation in the budget and, of course, because people care about making the result and using it to help those who really need it as a sign of respect for those people who have fought and are fighting for their own country, who have devoted their lives to it. Is there a more responsible relationship, is there a better result than this?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59168	Thank you, Dr. Orlic. Now straight to the replica of the Witch of Radet, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59169	There was life on planet Earth before Wolfie, people. In this room, I think, at least 80% of people live in apartments that their parents received for free, which in the meantime were allowed by some law to buy, so let go of those stories. Of course, we're not talking, we're not comparing time, but we're just drawing attention that there was a world on the planet and before you, but we didn't get an answer to the question -- are these apartments willing to be sold at a price of 400 to 500 euros, depending on the location, as Zorana Mihajlovic said, today or at a price of 300 to 350 euros, as Aleksandar Vukic said on 15 October 2018? So it's absolutely true that he said this. Furthermore, we did not get an answer to the question of when to start apartments, 50,000 cheap apartments for young couples. Vukic said June 4th 2018. That same June 4th, 2018, Ana Brnabic said she expects it to be completed by the end of 2019. So if you're already answering what we mentioned here, then let's answer those questions that would be really interesting to the public, first of all. Do you have an answer to the question on December 5, 2017, Aleksandar Vucic also told young scientists and couples of 450 euros per metre square, the first results in three years. We're going in for the third year, are we close to those results? So, to those questions, if you want to defend yourself, give an answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59170	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. The word now has a professor, Dr. Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59171	Okay, here, for the sake of the public to repeat it once more, so that there is no confusion, the law that we passed in this high House, the parliament of the Republic of Serbia, a while ago, says very clearly that prices are sold up to 500 euros. So I can be below that amount. Currently they are built in the following cities - Vranje where the price is sold 400 euros plus VAT, Nis 450, Kraljevo 400, Kragujevac 430, Novi Sad 500, Sremska Mitrovica 430, Belgrade 500. These are prices, sales prices adopted on the government's commission, for which conclusions have been made, public calls issued, selected performers. The apartments are being built. So where the works are already done are Vranje, Nis, Kragujevac, where performers are selected, where the works should begin, so these are Novi Sad and Sremska Mitrovica. Belgrade, we expect a public call in October and a selection of performers. In the cities of Zaječar, Zrenjanin, Kruševac, Leskovac, Smederevo, Sombor and Cačak we expect the works to start, hopefully next year. So, that's, say, the answer to your first price question. Also, on the question of young married couples, not only young married couples, but you mentioned it yourself, and that's where we all agree, and doctors, nurses and teachers and scientists and researchers, that's what the Government of the Republic of Serbia is thinking. Why haven't we made a decision yet? We want to see that this whole project, because this is a unique project for us. So, I repeat once again, one was ideas once, and now we're realising this project. There's a big project in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, we've singled out, we're going to guarantee money, we want to see at least one whole or one phase, or part of that phase, see what it looks like, see if there are some things that we need to fix, and then we're going to make a decision for other users, all of those that you, among other things, have repeated, and that's what the president was just talking about a few years ago. So, I think that thing is clear. The only question is when are we going to make that decision to work for other users as well? The next question was about licenses. You said in that first statement of yours that there were supposed to be no building permits. All building permits for the projects that began have been issued. There's nowhere to be done without a building permit. So, all of the permits exist, it goes from Vranja to Sremska Mitrovica. And, in general, everything we do, we are really trying to do in accordance with all the laws that this parliament of the Republic of Serbia has adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59172	Thank you, Mrs. Mihajlovic. The right to replica has Dr. Vladimir Orlic, then the Verse of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59173	They say, if we want to defend ourselves, not that we don't want to defend ourselves, we want to show with pride what we've done. The question has been asked -- when are they going to start building apartments, right? That's the question we heard earlier - when will it start? And here I am now looking at photographs, which go along with the following text, and the text says that in Vranje construction began in February and in the meantime that rough construction works were completed on all four buildings that were started. And it seems to me in this photograph that it's really true. I see buildings here, the whole structure is there. And when someone says -- now it's about the kind of work that no longer depends on the weather, so it's clear that these apartments, I'm going to read to you, just to find out which number of apartments are – 186, so they're going to be realized within a reasonable time, in what corresponds to the projected, I believe it's completely in place. So it's not about something that's in the plan that we're discussing right now, it's about something theoretical, it's about something that physically exists. Here, in the pictures you can see, it's a crow. Have you looked at what it looks like, say, in the King or Kragujevac? These aren't lawns covered with grass, this is a construction site in one place and another. Also, once again, in this accompanying material everything writes nicely, and in which city and when it begins and which are designed deadlines and what locations, and these locations are all just not, as it is said here, some shame in the periphery where no one will want to live. No, once again, it's about great apartments, quality apartments, and everyone should be glad to have something like this done in his country, and everyone should be glad to be taken care of in this way by the people that the law says so, here's the title, if someone missed it, for the members of the security force. So that's what this law applies to. And what about the other measures we discussed here? Here, let's remind ourselves. We had just some session to discuss scientific research, and this is what counterpart Markovic mentioned today for a good reason, the news of 27.3.2019 -- the keys handed down to young scientists in Kragujevac, the keys delivered. So we're not talking about things that are just on the level of ideas. We're talking about realisation... (President: Thank you. I'm finishing up, Mr. Chairman. ... In line with what Serbia can bring out, and today Serbia, thanks to Alexander Vukic and SNS, as much as anyone may be bothered to hear, can do much more than at any time before Alexander Vukic, especially in the time of those who devastated this country, left us to save it from the edge of bankruptcy, to fill the register they literally robbed, and never thought of taking care of any scientist, or members of the security force, or the old, or the young, or anyone in this world. So, all that we can do today is directly in the service of this people's interest, and everyone should, if he is a MP and takes this job seriously, be glad that he is involved in such affairs and in such results for his country. If we want to discuss it, we can talk about it, but that's not the point of staying in this place.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59174	Thank you. Right on the line, Verse Radeta, three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59175	Now I should say - today is Tuesday, although no one asked me what day it is. No one asked what happened to the apartments in Vranj, Nis, the ones we all knew had started to build. The minister said some keys would be delivered by the end of the year, etc. That's not what we talked about. We asked – what about apartments for young couples? When will the apartments that Vukic promised on 4 June 2018 begin to be built? When will apartments for young scientists and young couples be built, which Vukic promised on 5.12.2017? You, Mrs. Mihajlovic, have not answered any questions that we have asked in the morning. First, you said the price would be between 400 and 500 euros, and we asked what about the price of 300 to 350 euros per square that Vukic promised on 15 October 2018, so less than a year ago? Now you're counting again, so you said "Brown 400" and so on. You are when we passed this law said Vranje 320 euros. We remember something, and the rest is written down. Let it go. As far as the permits are concerned, you said everything is built with permits. My question was specific. The news came up yesterday, if you said it wasn't true, it's fine. The news came yesterday that some buildings in Nis, built under this project, lack some permits. If they're not missing, fine. I was just looking for an answer. Since you said construction is moving in Belgrade as well, the question is, at what precise location in Belgrade will be built these apartments that are expected by these people covered by this law?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59176	Thank you. The right to replica has Dr. Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59177	Now, I read something and 10 seconds later I hear – and there are no apartments, when the apartments will be for young scientists. The title is – presented keys to apartments for young scientists in Kragujevac. If she doesn't trust me, Mrs. Radeta, here, she's got people living in that town right next door. Let them say if it happened or not. Here I am, according to the photographs I see, here with the Prime Minister, a young couple, I see a gentleman, a lady, and she has a child. So, the young couple are at stake, it's also about scientific workers. It's kind of strange to me that now someone wants to declare young couples as not knowing what, some kind of profession, so it can't have anything to do with working within the security forces of this country, nor does it have anything to do with working in scientific action. I don't understand that. I understand that. When I see the photograph, I understand this and this, as I said, happened in March this year. And you check in your ranks to see if it happened in this country. I think Kragujevac is in Serbia. It says this - 84 apartments were delivered, of course, funded by the Serbian government, a number of keys were allocated by the Prime Minister, so it writes how many three-rooms, how many one-bedrooms, how many one-room apartments, etc. We talked about these things before, whether there are three weeks, when we said – we are adopting a law that allows us to do this kind of project even more successfully and more intensively, because we have a legal framework for this, to help these people, as we are already doing in Nis for members of the security forces, in Vranje for members of the security forces, in Kragujevac, you have heard what time it will start in Novi Sad, Sremska Mitrovica. As far as the city of Belgrade is concerned, we have mentioned today, I don't know if we are today, but we are certainly in this room one or five or six times, that the location of the so-called The elbow of the curve and writes which number of apartments and writes at which stage. When we talk about what's started or not started, once again, 1500 apartments are in that stage that's started, that's done and that's done. Another 6500 is below that stage. And these are the things we're talking about as a complete reality about the law we're discussing today, about other laws. We have other such projects that, as you can see, have led some people to get the key in their hands, that they can use it, of course, with their families, married couples, young or not so young, I think it's less important than the fact that Serbia has today, today Serbia can, today this is a reality thanks to Serbia again, as much as anyone likes it or doesn't like to hear, Alexander Vukic, SNS, certainly not to those who pretend to hear anything or forget after ten seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59178	Thank you. The word is "Verica Radet," right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59179	We're not talking about individual cases, we're talking about system solutions, because individual cases can't be solved without being within this law or some other Lex specialist, and I guess that's why this law is being passed and that's why it's being changed. We still do not have an answer to the questions Vučićevic's statement from 4 June 2018, 5 December 2017. You can find whatever examples you want, but find out it's not exactly what we claim. Ms. Minister said they were thinking in the government about all these categories for which we, through our amendments and in the debate, said they should be covered by this or this law, or that they should be able to resolve housing issues under special, favourable conditions. We still think it's necessary, and we have submitted the amendments exactly, since we've heard the government think about it before last year when you presented us with this law that we're changing today. You also said that the government is considering apartments under the same conditions and for doctors, and for nurses, and for scientists, and for researchers, and for disabled people, and families with more children, and families with children with special needs. So, we've already said, it might spread, but we've submitted the amendments precisely because we expect the government to start thinking and to realize, and then it wouldn't have to wait for a new Lex specialis to be rewritten or changed, so that there's a valuable time to build such apartments again, so we're telling you that you'll come to a conclusion faster after so much time thinking if we make you here a law that you should do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59180	Thank you, colleague Radeta. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: Replica. He didn't mention you. No, I listened carefully, listened carefully, listened carefully. There are people by our side who live in Kragujevac. There's Mr. Kovacevic, there's the professor, there's Natasa Jovanovic, so don't please. The word has Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59181	Thank you. Yes, I said there are people coming from Kragujevac and I said these apartments for young scientific researchers in Kragujevac were built. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: You've got it all wrong. Now, Mrs. Radeta tells me that I've got it all wrong, but I'm reading this from one official news and it's written there by the town of Kragujevac. I was talking about this town and these apartments here and three weeks ago, they didn't complain so much, and you know why? Because then they didn't pretend this wasn't happening. They need it now. You know why they need it? In order to talk here and when we discuss details, about how they're pushing for what, they just missed out on the fact that it's by law here, by the title of apartments for security forces, and then they're going to tell us about young couples, and I'm saying all of that, so here's what the young couple in the photo showed me, I got the keys. Does this mean that young couples in this country are doing something or not? I'd say it means it's working. Does this mean that some result is being created for them? I'd say, in this photograph, it's being created. Does this mean that these apartments are reality today? I still kind of trust my eyes more than those who pretend to forget after 10 seconds, so I'd say it's still a reality in Serbia. When they ask exactly what reality is, when they ask for a geographical definition, and we always give them an answer. Here, let them hear a little more about relativity. At this stage, called the first A phase, it's probably informal, but it doesn't matter, in Vranje it's the reality of 186 new apartments, in Nis 190 new apartments, in Kragujevac 200, in Kragujevac 216, here it is again Kragujevac, I think this Kragujevac in Serbia, like that Kragujevac where young scientific workers got apartments also in Serbia, yes, Novi Sad 548, Sremska Mitrovica 190, and that's when you add those 1.530 that are now in Serbia reality. In the follow-up to this same phase, another 6,500. If people interested in the discovery of Serbia's beauty and knowledge of its cities and municipalities mean anything, I can continue to read about this next phase, precisely, these 6,500 where it is and how much. So, in Serbia today, this is possible because it's done domestically, which is done safely, which is being acted seriously and responsibly, and what's made space in the budget that all that really was the needs of generations ago today we can afford and this will certainly be getting better and better for time. I have a deep belief that the people of this thing understand, that they believe much more with their eyes, so when they see photos, when they see a building built that means something more to them than any story that can be heard in or out of this room. When he believes so with his eyes, when he trusts what is reality, and not what stories are just about to do, then the people must continue to give his trust to Alexander Vukic and the SNS, and it is a sure provision that we will have these results and better times more and more.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59182	Thank you. The word is Natasa Jovanovic, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59183	Mr. Orlic, all of this would be fine if you hadn't messed up this law with built apartments for young researchers in Kragujevac. In fact, and Mrs. Minister knows very well, it has nothing to do with the law adopted in May last year. It is about apartments built by the government of the Republic of Serbia and loans from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the Foundation of the Kragujeva University. I'm also in debt for the Rectory of Kragujeva University and the 12 universities of the city from which I come to tell the truth. It is true, Mrs. Brnabić was, the photographs you showed were the delivery of the keys to the apartments, 210 apartments in the village of the Old Workers' Colony, and for the possibility that after five years these young researchers and members of their families were largely taken into account when they applied to be married couples, because there are indeed a lot of scientific associates at our universities who are excellent researchers, they can buy these apartments, whose rent is now between 130 and 150 euros. These were not at all apartments promised by Vukic and Mrs Mihajlovic in October, October 18th, and the 15th, which Mrs Radeta spoke of and, you see, on her birthday she promised such construction and fraud, nothing. So, not only has there been a problem now. Of course, we all the citizens were happy and I personally know the children of some of my research friends, young couples who got the keys to those apartments there, mostly from the Medical Faculty, but now the problem was that originally it was an agreement that the cost of renting these apartments would be determined by the government in agreement with the university, and that money would be paid at the expense of the Kragujeva University. If you remember, Mr. Marinkovic, when I was talking about the Law on the Scientific Research Area, that's exactly what I've been pointing out. Why is it that now the possibility of the Kraguer's dictatorship and the colleges getting a piece of that funding has been taken away? Now the question arises – who will take care of the maintenance of these apartments? Only after five years can these young couples eventually decide and choose to enter the ransom, and all the money that is now obtained from the rental is poured into the account of the Ministry of Finance, not even the Ministry of Science, without the possibility that the Kragujeva University, which again, participated with its Foundation, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and this is the whole truth about these apartments, and about these laws, Mrs Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59184	Thank you. The word has Vladimir Orlic, right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59185	This time it'll be short. There's no need to be longer, and I actually want to thank you. So, to thank you for confirming everything I said: that the realized apartments for young couples, that the realized apartments for young scientific and research workers, that this happened in March of this year, that the keys were delivered, and which were attended by representatives of the government. So you've confirmed everything and I want to thank you for that. I am glad that it happened right in Kragujevac and that they proved exactly my legitimate suspicion that Kragujevac is in Serbia. And also, if I didn't forget that, it would be correct to mention, which was confirmed during the previous presentation that these buildings were realized in Vranj, so that they physically exist, which I believe is strong evidence that these things happen in reality. If the price of this consent or recognition of the claim that I have forgotten something is not a problem, I can absolutely live with it, while we are in agreement about Serbia's success today, of course thanks to Aleksandra Vukic and SNS. Sometimes it's not bad when someone agrees with us, not as much as that special means to us, but whoever agrees on the clear truth, the truth seen by the absolute majority of Serbian citizens, gets little on their credibility and credibility, that's mostly good for him.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59186	Thank you, Dr. Orlic. We have a colleague Mircic in the system, but I don't really have the basis to give you a replica. Milorad Mircic throws. No mention of Vojislav Seselj, no mention of the Serbian Radical Party. I was liberal enough to give a replica to the Kragujevac, Natasa Jovanovic, but I can't go now to mention Obrenovac to give Komlenski. Then that doesn't make any sense. The word has the next speaker, Dusica Stojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59187	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Respected Deputy Prime Ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, respected citizens of Serbia, in the past four years Serbia built 300km of highways and in that period the number of vehicles increased from 37 million to close to 57 million, as recorded on the basis of data in last 2018. Although we have indeed inherited a catastrophic situation on our roads, railways, we as one responsible party, SNS, indeed, struggle from day to day to day to improve the conditions for our citizens' lives, to better connect regionally, to connect regionally with better roads, railways, new bridges and new river and air ports. The good news for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia is that we will continue to strengthen our capacity by building new international border crossings, to work on the relief and, as the Deputy Prime Minister said in her opening address, to work on removing these physical barriers that exist at our international border crossings and to establish one single control, one control whether it is about entering or leaving our country. They also encourage news that I have been able to read today in Serbian media, which is that the World Bank has approved Serbia 40m dollars under a very important regional project that includes both the Republic of Serbia and Albania and Northern Macedonia. The total value of this project offered by the World Bank to these countries is $90m, of which Serbia will receive $400m in loans. The users of these funds are the Customs Administration, the Infrastructure of the Railways of Serbia, the JP "The Paths of Serbia", the Corridors of Serbia, and so the responsible authorities do so when we have a clear plan, a clear vision of what we want next. Also, there are a number of challenges ahead of us, you know very well, we need to work further on developing intelligent transport systems on our Corridor 10 and improve crossings, border crossings, roads across railway lines. We have a lot of work to do, but when we have a clear vision and a clear plan, it's easy to go forward. All we have to do is look at this traffic light that's constantly on fire and realize all the ambitious plans that the government of the Republic of Serbia is really doing successfully every day. Also, I would like to point out another fact that members of the MUP, members of the border police, phytosanitary inspectors, our customs officers are working really tirelessly for 24 hours to protect the security of Serbian citizens and allow for a more efficient transition across Serbian borders. Building new road, railway, river crossings makes our country a more competitive and better place to operate domestic and foreign companies. This facilitates the business of our companies, reduces the waiting time at our borders, better and more efficient in controlling the transport of goods, food, passengers, freighters. The government of the Republic of Serbia does everything really to extend the capacity of our road, river and air crossings and the adoption of this law. It is about the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Northern Macedonia on the establishment of joint controls at the Presevo-Tabanovci border crossings, which goes in favour and I ask you to endure and not to remain on this case alone, but as in these previous ones, I would say a couple of years continue to modernise and improve, increasing the capacity of our international border crossings. There's one more thing I'd like to do in today's exposure to distracting. It's a matter of our country's security and our citizens, which is very important. We must always think about this and that we are really trying to make our country, our country and all our citizens as efficient as possible, and also that, with the help of the border police, with the help of our customs officers, phytosanitary inspectors, we also have control to protect ourselves, in order to protect our country from the introduction of narcotics, arms smuggling or illegal migration. We have good communication. We are establishing a truly good international co-operation with regional police, from Europe, which proves that Serbia is today a truly reliable partner and EU countries, as well as countries that are working hard and are on the way and in the process of European integration. Our police have really good co-operation with Frontex and we all feel safer and safer every day as citizens living in our country. Today, in addition to the Law on building apartments for security forces, we are discussing another important agreement that I will discuss in more detail. It is about an agreement signed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Northern Macedonia. The initiator of this agreement was the president of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Aleksandar Vukic. On 12 July, Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic signed this agreement and today we are discussing a law that will confirm an important international agreement, which will create some kind of legal framework, a legislative framework that we have missed and continue to modernise international border crossings. Also, the construction of this border crossing, the Presevo-Tabanovci border crossing, will allow faster flow of people, vehicles, cargo vehicles, trucks. We're in summer season today. A large number of passengers, domestic and foreign tourists plan to go to sea, plan their annual vacations. We're on transit corridors. A large number of trucks, a freighter passes through our country every day. We need to create conditions to reduce the waiting at our border crossings. Serbia is indeed investing in building border crossings and a modern and functional Batrovci border crossing has recently been opened. The data suggests that almost seven million passengers have passed through this crossing, showing how much work our police officers, our customs officers, our border inspectors have. Also, construction of border crossings is equipped with new and modern equipment, well-trained border police officers, customs officers, which has led to phenomenal results that border police are accomplishing at this new modernized renewed border crossing that has as many as 18 lanes. Also, the police are doing a lot of work, investing money in the MIP reform, and when it comes to the purchase of new equipment, new conditions used by our officers. Police had good results at the renewed and expanded Batrovci border crossing when it comes to drug confiscation. Last year alone, 65kg of drugs were seized, of which two kilos of heroin, which is one of the better results when it comes to Serbia's border crossings. This is the best information that speaks about how you can do it whenever you want and how you can when you really invest in one plan and when all relevant institutions in the chain of responsibility are responsible and able to do their job safely. Besides, truly tireless work, she said 24 hours worked by our border guards, she would indeed give credit to our customs officers who are trying to organize customs service in a professional way. In the era when time is money and when business really cannot wait for joint control will really allow passengers, cargo and goods to stop in one place, for control, which will significantly affect the acceleration of traffic across the border and reduce retention to the least possible extent. I am looking forward to media on the construction of a new border crossing of Presevo-Tabanovci for travellers and freighters from Serbia to northern Macedonia and the Serbian border service will exercise exit control on the territory of the Republic of Northern Macedonia at the Tabanovac border crossing, while for those travelling from northern Macedonia to Serbia, exit control of Macedonian border services will be carried out on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, at the border crossing of Presevo. At the current border crossing of Presevo on the Serbian side of the border, it is rapidly working to expand the island where cabin controls are located. It has been confirmed that six passenger border services houses will be placed in the site, while two cargo control cabins are expanding. Indeed, we have excellent cooperation with our neighbors. We are a country located on the EU's external border. The countries ahead of us that have become members of the EU and Croatia and Hungary and Bulgaria and Romania really want one better communication and co-operation with the Government of the Republic of Serbia to facilitate the transport of goods, services, capital at our borders. It often happens that our border police that our customs office is not responsible for this long wait, but that responsibility is on the other side, on the side of EU member states, above all thinking about Hungary and Croatia. We have greatly improved our capacity to work on border crossings towards Romania. I would like to remind all dear fellow MPs, but also all citizens of Serbia, that in 2014, three new international border crossings between Serbia and Romania were restored, in a truly solemn atmosphere. It was indeed a major venture that strengthened economic co-operation by solving a problem that existed for more than 20 years. Construction in less than 10 months built three new international border crossings of Nakovo-Lugno, in the municipality of Kikinda, Jasa Tomic-Fenk near Cecnja, Vrbica-Balkan in the Čokanja municipality, creating opportunities for even stronger co-operation between the two countries, is about the Republic of Serbia and Romania and two truly neighbouring peoples whose relations in general are never better. The Romanian side often loves to communicate with SNS MPs to apostrophe that Romania has really two friends throughout the country's history, where the two friends are the Republic of Serbia and the Black Sea. So it's important for us to strengthen these relationships and have a clear will and a clear plan to move on. That we have a plan and that we have a truly political will to testify to it and the following data. In addition to the World Bank project, indeed, the EU is investing significant financial resources in the Republic of Serbia to modernise border crossings. The value of construction works and reconstruction of new border crossings in Serbia will exceed 19.3m euros this year. The aim of this investment is to address the problem of long-term detention, mostly of freight vehicles when leaving Serbia, or their entry into the EU. As I said, the problem often arises from the other side, i.e. with border guards in the EU. Customs administration members, border guards work at Serbia's border crossings, and the problem is seen by insufficient border services, notably Hungary, Croatia, and until recently Romania. The transport industry of Serbia, our trucks, our helmets, our carriers, because of their long stay at the border, suffer significant damage. According to the data that I got to the trucks, they spent 26 million hours moving from one side to the other. Good examples of finding a solution are joint meetings of the government we had in Subotica when both the Hungarian and Serbian governments, as well as the presidents of Serbian and Hungarian customs who presented some new answers to these challenges we face at common borders. Also, the meeting outlined the idea that empty trucks leaving Serbia are moving towards the border crossing to Hungary if they are not burdened by traffic at that time. So we must, indeed, as a responsible authority and as a SNS, find answers to the needs of the transport industry in Serbia, because domestic and foreign capital, the domestic sphere of services really cannot wait, because it will reroute its business, I'm afraid, to other markets. Also, in February 2019, I would like to remind all my dear fellow MPs, but also all of my citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that a new Bajmek border crossing was opened, which was made in the same place as the old one. It is one of eight border crossings with Hungary, which has invested around 2m euros. They also encourage good news, good news for citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that it is a new border crossing and that it is also a matter of border crossings such as Sot, Gostun, Kotroman. The reconstruction of the Sot border crossing with Croatia began. The plan is for the work to be completed in about six months, which should be dispersed to cross over to Shid and Batrovec, so now all those domestic and foreign tourists who want to go to Croatia. We didn't stop at that either. We have a plan, and the work that's done at the Gostun crossing has been carried out. It is the biggest border crossing with Montenegro, and should be completed in about 18 months. In addition to these transitions, the reconstruction of the Controman border crossing from BiH is under way. As part of the investments, building the Belgrade-Sarajevo highway and parts of the road towards Sremska Mitrovica, Kuzine, towards Raca, followed by reconstruction of the Sremska Raca crossing, or bridge that connects Serbia and BiH. I believe that these works will help transport passengers and goods with neighbouring countries, to be done more effectively than was the case before. I can indeed testify, as a citizen of this country, that we have found a catastrophic situation at our border crossings, on our roads, on our highways, and on the railways, and on the data as we have the railways, start from the Belgrade railway node and beyond, what kind of railways we have inherited. As important as this is, the World Bank's record of how much the transport industry of Serbia wastes time and money due to its retention at border crossings, with economies of the region, in addition to the problems they have when they join the EU, is actually about the EU's external border. It may best illustrate the World Bank's data that says that in the Western Balkans region it takes five times more time to cross the border than in many EU countries. Trucks in the region spend 26 million hours, which is about three thousand years, waiting to cross from side to side. These are devastating data, and that's something we have to work on better, more efficiently in the next period. This agreement we're discussing today is in favor. These are the results that the citizens expect from us, the SNS and the people who represent it, in a responsible way, make politics. Also, time and response costs in the Western Balkans are expected to be reduced, thanks to precisely the implementation of this World Bank project, as well as a number of EU-sponsored projects. Loan funds will be used to create and implement measures that will increase transparency, reduce costs, improve the co-operation of various institutions and reduce the time needed to trade across borders. In view of all this, I would like to invite all my fellow MPs from the ranks of the position and opposition to support these important laws, so that citizens of the Republic of Serbia, all passengers, can make our transport companies easier to operate and operate. We cannot always be in the center, simply, in some kind of trap, we must also work to facilitate and listen to the needs of our citizens and our economy. Now, at the very end, I would like to take the opportunity, while here you are present at the National Assembly, Mrs Mihajlovic, to point out one problem that is really happening on the public scene in Serbia, although the Government of the Republic of Serbia founded the Coordination Body for Gender Equality on 30 October 2014, on which you are headed, I have some impression, as a national MP, that we have not responded enough to the attack on women and in politics and in the media and in journalism and at every step. The attack on one woman is an attack on all women in Serbia. We have every day of the situation, both on Twitter and in the media and in the public space, that women are discriminated against in all ways, belittled, that there are numerous abominations, fictions spoken by people from the Alliance for Serbia, who are truly both humiliating and embarrassing to women in Serbia. It is a shame that they do all this and say the leaders of the opposition in our country and that indeed that spiral of violence every day actually spreads and increases. Also, we reacted yesterday as MPs from the Serb Progressive Party in a statement, where we condemned the most recent attacks on state secretary in the MUP, Mrs Biljana Popović Ivkovic, because we believe that all institutions, all institutions in this country, must stand up and fight clearly and loudly against the violence of Alliance leaders for Serbia, Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic, Bosko Obradovic. Please, let the Coordination Body react. I know you're doing a lot of work to improve the conditions for our girls, boys, to fight for gender equality in Serbia, but I'm asking you to respond to the violence, and the political violence that is happening against women in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59188	Thank you, Mrs Stojkovic. The word is by Professor Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59189	Dear Dusce, first of all, thank you for everything you've told and presented what and how the Ministry of Interior is doing, when we talk about border crossings, along with other portfolios in the government, and so is the Ministry of Construction, when we talk about infrastructure itself. I really think that not only us from the Serbian Progressive Party, but I think that all citizens of Serbia can and should be proud of everything that has really been done in previous years. You know, it's been a time of demagogy, of empty stories, of accusations, of war cooze and all that, you know, like, fraud, of fraud. Today, people and citizens of Serbia can see whether they have a road or no road, whether they have a bridge or not, whether something was working on the construction of the railway or not, whether we have airports or we do not have airports. And today everything that is done by Serbian citizens can be seen. This is precisely seen in their support given both to our president and to the party. I think that's the most important thing - work and results. Everything else really is stories. What I think is important from what you said is about the World Bank loan. So far, we've had everything we've had to do when we've set up the budget, we've turned to building infrastructure, because we've been aware that there's no country development if there's no basic infrastructure, so if there's no roads, if we don't do something in the railways, if we don't do it at the airports. And we did all that. But that's not enough if we don't invest extra in these, in removing non-physical barriers, all that does, both the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Traffic. The World Bank loan totals $100 million, $40 million is Serbia, Macedonia 30, Albania 20. We're looking at this part of us, so 40 million dollars, and we want to make integrated border crossings. But not only that, but to raise just the capacity, you were talking about customs here, you were talking about our border cops here, so to raise our capacity at the border crossings, so we don't get into situations so crowded. The fact is, for most European Union countries, the least problem is on our side. Most of the problems are much more on the sides of these countries. We talk to them, we sign an agreement, we work on working together, maybe even through this loan, trying to solve these problems. Smart transport systems -- that's what we need now in relation to this physical infrastructure that we do and we end up doing. You can tell that too. And there will be more roads and there will be more cars and cargo vehicles on our corridors. So, if we know we're expecting 60 million cars this year, then that means we have to do everything to make the border jam really less. Because, as I said, it directly affects our country's competitiveness. That puts us in another situation -- there's a parallel corridor, Corridor 4. So that corridor is longer, it is 120 kilometers longer if we talk about roads and over 200 kilometers longer if we talk about railways, but if we don't solve this issue, so waiting at the border, we'll have a situation again that we don't get enough cars and freighters through our corridor. And our interest, as a transit state, is that we have as many cars and cargo vehicles as possible throughout our country, that as long as they stay in our country, they end up spending their money staying along the corridors, especially considering that we, Corridor 10, will especially arrange, that for the next season he has, next to the stand that is standard and which must exist, and some other content that will simply lead to, especially in passenger traffic, tourists passing through our country bar staying for a while. In that sense, I believe this loan and how it will help us, because just one better approach will be made and a better deal with those countries where we have problems. I believe, too, that next year we will have an integrated border crossing with Montenegro, I believe, too, and with Bosnia and Herzegovina, with Macedonia exactly what we are doing right now. So we remain, first of all, the countries of the European Union, which I believe we will solve. As for the attack on women and, in general, the speech of violence and hatred towards women, which is everyday, therefore, which has existed for several years, the Co-ordination Body for Gender Equality has repeatedly reacted. We come into a situation where we have to react ten times a day to each attack. But I think there's much more we have to do in common -- those people who do it, they have to be isolated, completely isolated. It's not just a question of whether we're going to condemn it, it's a question, too, if we can isolate it. You have an MP here, and there are some other political parties who give themselves the right to run politics by attacking women. And it's a common struggle that will last, and it can't be solved today or tomorrow, but I think with constant conversation and isolation of those who commit violence against women, we can do something together, and I believe that the new Law on Gender Equality, I believe, will soon be in front of you MPs, I believe that it can help reduce it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59190	Thank you, Mrs. Mihajlovic. We're moving on with our work. The word is Natasa Jovanovic. You called again, colleague Mircic? Replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59191	I have no words of gratitude, Mr. Marinkovic, to thank you for this gesture for allowing a replica of the People's Parliament. It's really becoming a rare thing, a rarity. In fact, from all this talk on agenda points, we have come to the issue of the menace of women in our society, so the minister respects that some MPs even take the right to threaten women's rights. The colleague says even -- and we are witnesses that even the association, headed by the minister, and not many associations dealing with the problem, have not condemned the latest text published by the journalist against the Republic of Serbia. Congradi journalist wrote that Serbia is a genocide state and that it lives in a genocide state. Where are you gentlemen to raise your voice? What do you think you're gonna do to the west by keeping your mouth shut? It's just the beginning, it's a barometer to see how the government breathes, how Serbia breathes. The next attack will be much harder. If you do not rebel in time, you will see what awaits you. Paddy Ashdown is the first to say that a resolution on the genocide in Srebrenica must be adopted in Republika Srpska's parliament. They also easily accepted, you saw how that story ended, and now we have a fight, a big fight, a uncertain struggle to prove that the people of Republika Srpska have nothing to do with the fact that they force them to be genocide and genocide in Srebrenica, and we have journalists writing to us and then they jump to defend the right woman. The right of us living in this Serbia is to respect the Constitution of this country. No one can oppose calling the state of Serbia genocide by writing, like this Congradi, to live in a genocide state and to be ashamed of it. The genocide can only be committed by an organised state, and the organised state at the time of the conflict in Bosnia and Herzegovina was the Republic of Serbia. Don't lose sight of it. Once again, thank you, Mr. Marinkovic, for your generosity for two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59192	Thank you. We have now moved entirely on to a topic that has nothing to do with Dusica Stojkovic's speech or Minister Mihajlovic's speech. The more liberal, the worse, obviously. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59193	Thank you. Today on the agenda, due to citizens who may now be following or joining the session, we have amendments and additions to the Law on special conditions for the implementation of the apartment building project for members of the security forces. To avoid confusion, for all people who follow us in Serbia in direct transmission, this is not about any gift, but about building apartments under conditions that the government has set up for their purchase, for applying to the competition and with a price that should be maximum of 500 euros. You denied, Mrs. Mihajlovic, that anyone ever mentioned a range of prices with a strictly fixed price, for example, for Vranje. All media reported last October 18th that the price of a square meter apartment for security forces would be 320 euros, you said today 400 euros. However, here is another question – why do you, of the working people, see that it is absolutely accepted here, such as members of the military, BIA, police and all other security forces, make it a social category in some way? By introducing them in this way you place them in this law in those who can't afford to buy apartments at prices that are not highly profitable and that there are no confusions, because this is followed by people who are currently retailing the house, who are putting up bricks, people who are working on construction in all the cities of Serbia, there are such and MPs in the hall who know it, the price of construction, normal construction, without any pompous things, starting with tiles, sanitarys and all, can't be more than 300 euros, if people do so on their property. So what's spectacular about this law, if that's the price, a maximum of 350 euros? Here, the BK company promised, as it is called, the Tesla City, Bogoljub Karic, that they will make apartments for 400 euros, so ask any peasants in the village how much it costs, ask those who are in construction. So, it was more normal for this law to cover all these categories of people, but in a way that there is a possibility that, on their posters that they own in the yard where their parents live, their parents make a new house for themselves, that the city where they live, and not only these listed cities, but in Paracino, in Nova Varosha, in Priboj, so Milanka, everywhere, allows them to get the opportunity to raise credit in the bank, that the credit is known in which bank is raised, which is the interest rate, and we have not determined, and now, what Radeta colleague said, in a certain way to do a gooisation. Why does a member of the security force have to live and be assigned to Kragujevac to buy an apartment on Danny's hill, on these 20 acres, and there will be 216 apartments, 1,029 total? Why didn't you decide to have it in the center? He mentioned counterpart Mirčić, the barracks "Radomir Putnik", which was defined by the council of the City Assembly when there was no SNS to be in that very location, it is the city center, the Street of Prince Milosa, building apartments for these people as well. Dena's hill in Kragujevac, it's the third area of location, the periphery, where, by the way, I looked at the Kragujevac real estate sites as much as it costs to pay, and about a salary with a building house where there's a foundation, so nothing is spectacular, the 500 euros that will be maximum. There's the man who's building on Danny's hill that's gonna cost him on his salary. You tell us – yes, that is the way. Yeah, but apparently, you don't systemically solve all these problems. We have another situation. Mrs. Mihajlovic, in order to arrange a catastrian plot in any city, should first work a cadastre and be the normal director of the Geodetic Institute, which certainly is not Dr. Borko Draskovic. It's a man who knows everything, he just doesn't understand his business. He knows how to say – Duing List, he can say – IT sector, systematization, that he orders satellite maps, and he is under your authority, from companies that are later turned out to be unusable, so he has brought tens of thousands of people, his cadastre into a situation that even those houses they built, which they have legalized under these laws cannot register, because the cadastre works, does not work, are issued completely wrong solutions, with missed names and last names. A man like that should have been removed by now, and plus all these malfeasances, pumping out the money that he's been doing and scrambling people. All the normal people who know something about this job have gone from there. Then how do you expect plans and regulatory and cadastrian parcels to be done for future projects? We have another situation that no one has mentioned here today, and here I am, and fellow Serbian radicals are going to do according to the amendments, as far as one forgotten category is concerned, and these are people who are so-called. Military homeless. They're 2,600 and some families on the street. You will say – not exactly on the street, because they have some temporary accommodation in barracks, schools, various warehouses, even when Sinisha Mali was mayor of Belgrade was assigned to 135 locations so that they can live there, but there is no wet knot, there is nothing decent where they could, and some have only five square blocks per household member. Is that normal in the 21st century? It is right in this barracks, which is the continuation of the “Radomir Putnik” barracks, which I am talking about on several occasions I have visited these so-called “Radomir Putnik”. Military homeless. People who are the highest military officers of the then-SFRJ who have defended until the last breath in the last country war and the Republic of Serbia and Republika Srpska Krajina, later Serbia in the war with the Shiptar terrorists and with the NATO pact on the street, are without anything. When are we going to have a law that will solve their question? He said a colleague, Orlic, here, now he's out, he says – no one has ever solved that question except Vukic. Oh, no, please. What were we doing in the government in 1998 when a university settlement was built at the Institute of Physics, when the immigrants got flats free of charge, without them buying through an unknown bank and on the still unknown conditions of young scientists and Kraguje scientists? So where did you live, gentlemen? Where did your parents get apartments? He told counterpart Djokic that he had lost his apartment, but his colleagues were given the opportunity. So my father and mother and other fathers and later your apartments were bought. Well, it hasn't all started with this era since last year, the construction of these apartments that are due to be paid at 500 euros. So let's not deceive the public and talk about something that's going to be so convenient. The first question is, I'm finishing up, I see you're looking at the clock, which is going to be the bank. He said colleague Marković – Post office savings. It's not official anywhere. Let go of what they're advertising. For all of you, is every member of the security force going to be in any bank that's defined for it without any trouble getting that loan? Is there any possibility that from the various problems that this loan can not be granted to him? That you may not lead people astray, who will come and have a competitive application fill in and come into that bank, the bank says – you need it, you need it, you need it, you need it, you need it, you need it, you need it, you need it. What a disproportion is going to be, for you it is a matter of dinar and euro loans, what further benefits will be needed and to tell me, Mrs. Mihajlovic, until Borko Draskovic is headed by the Republic Geodetic Institute, which I am responsible for, and I see, we have also asked these parliamentary questions and colleagues Jojic and I, do not do their job properly and citizens have tens of thousands of problems. They can't register their apartments, their houses, they can't do desert debates about it, and they can't provide a future for their children.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59194	Thank you, Mrs. Jovanovic. The word is by Professor Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59195	Enough questions, let's start in a row. First, nobody ever said that apartments were free, nor that these were social housing, and when we discussed this law here in parliament, you were present and we discussed it together, and then it was very clear that these were not social housing, that these were apartments by all standards and that, of course, they would be bought under favourable conditions, and that's why we represented it, and then we adopted it here. Now the law, you say you change it, I say we complement, however, we want to put some other groups in place and we really want to help everyone. On the other hand, before we even started to think about having a special law, a survey was previously conducted in all security services, so both the officers and the soldiers, let's see, and of course the bia, let's see if there was any interest in buying apartments, because you know, if they could have bought apartments in the last 10, 20 and more years, they would have certainly bought it, and if they could have done it, they would have done it. Obviously, they're not, so now we don't talk about what it used to be like in the military and the police, I believe, not anymore, for that reason we're headed into this project. On the other hand, it is a project that the state can guarantee, because the state is stable both economically and financially. So, the Serbian government never said that these apartments are neither giving up. Of course, when you come to power, you're free to give everything away, share it with hand and hat, no problem, and that when you come to power, you've probably learned that, I suppose, from your coalition partner in Old Town, because he has nothing that he didn't give and give. On the other hand, it's one thing about social housing itself. So they're not social housing, they're buying. It is known exactly what wars will look like for apartments, one-room, two-room, three-room, etc. There are no rank lists, but simply interest in security forces if they are interested they can buy these apartments under favourable conditions and have low wars for 30 years. I think that's what we've practically come up with together. Also, when you talk about it, you mentioned ghettoization, and I've heard it a few times, like, here. One example, I don't know the best Novi Sad, but they explained to me that there is a settlement in Jugovicovo, there are two plots, on one plot Serbia's Building Directorate is an investor and there is a price of 950 euros per square, so it's a market sale of apartments. Right next to that plot, they find a plot to build now apartments for security forces where the price is, I think, without VAT 500 euros. So we can't talk about ghettoisation if we already have a plot to a plot where absolutely everything is secure and represents no, I don't know, sheltering these people who know where from the city etc. It's really not like that. Another important thing, local self-government units themselves were tasked with selecting plots where these apartments would be built, which they must have near their school, kindergartens and all that was needed to make it work normally. So, that ghettoization doesn't stand, even though I heard it. At the very end, you asked me about the Post Office, because it was mentioned somewhere as a state-owned, that the Post Office prepared its brochures for each city in particular along with the Civilian Directorate of Serbia, where it gave the exact conditions of what the documentation needed, what it takes to prepare, to come and apply at all for the purchase of such an apartment, if we are talking about security forces, precisely to show people what it takes to get them to come and make an apartment purchase contract. Nothing's hidden. There's nothing on the side. After all, it's all in front of us and it's done and people are applying. So when we say what we're building, we're building exactly on the survey we've done several times. So now someone didn't say I want an apartment, so after a month said, I don't want an apartment. I repeat once again, it is soldiers and police officers who will decide whether to trust the Government of the Republic of Serbia and buy these apartments or who will believe you who say it is all a colorful lie is nothing. One of you said, I'm sorry, maybe it wasn't you, that it was a fraud or maybe it was in a previous address. So we're building these apartments, 50% of the apartments in Vranj are built, we're working on other cities, and I believe we'll finally have security forces that what they've been waiting for for decades now have the opportunity to buy such apartments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59196	Thank you, Mrs. Mihajlovic. Now the right to replica has Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59197	Thank you, Chairman. Many questions are now open here, although we have given more than clear answers to all these questions, but simply some MPs ignore it, so they continue to ask the same questions, I do not know just what purpose. First of all, no one has ever said from the Serbian government that just before Mrs. Mihajlovic said to the SNS MPs that someone here gives something to someone, that these apartments are free of charge. No one has ever said that, but it'll be cheaper than commercial apartments, so we're passing a law called the Law on Special Conditions for the Implementation of a project to build apartments for members in this case of defence forces. They won't be free but they'll be more favourable, they'll be priced, they'll be so concise that they can be bought by members so they can compete on them... Natasha St. Jovanovic: Come on, please explain to us. Well, I explain to you, there's obviously a need to explain. So, according to clear procedures, in a clear competition and that's something that's a good thing for them, a concrete benefit. Someone who hasn't been able to buy an apartment in decades will now be able to do so on favourable terms. They're gonna compete, they're gonna go to the competition, they're gonna get an apartment for a relatively decent sum. So, just before I took out the model made by the Post Office, so for a single 36-square apartment, the participation would be 1500 euros, a monthly war of 52.69 euros. You want another model. Here, the second model is for a triple apartment of 80 square meters, the monthly war will be 117 euros. So this is convenient. This is something they couldn't accomplish in a commercial sense, none of them could buy this apartment, because if they could have bought it for all these years and decades. Apparently not. When you said earlier that your colleague Orlic said that no one has ever done this this way. I agree with him, so no government has systemically solved this issue and these problems that we are now solving. So 8022 apartments will be built in the first phase. It's a concrete result of this government and that's what we do in a system way, extremely serious and extremely responsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59198	Thank you, colleague Markovic. Now he has the right to a replica, Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59199	First, I will give Mrs. Mihajlovic, I am not satisfied with the answer by Mrs. Mihajlovic, the post of minister, the Deputy Prime Minister, is to give such answers that when the MP raises doubts about what is the subject of the debate, the answers are clear, precise, reasoned. None of it worked. You said, "Give it to me." Yes, we will come to power to take care of all the so-called military homeless. Veroljub Arsic: According to the Rules of Procedure. We'll take care of the army homeless, the children of the fallen fighters, the disabled of the past country wars. We have proposed amending and supplementing the laws for these people, repeatedly in the course of the regular session. There's still no law on taking care of them, and it's really sad in one country where anyone can go from traitors to the media, like this freak Congradin and the others... .
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59200	Please, don't say that to my colleague Jovanovic, there's no need to insult anyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59201	Well, why not? You know what, you're supposed to react to the fact that if you've read the format of those newspapers that nobody else reads or anyone else, you're supposed to be as vice president of the Assembly, so nicely, I mean Tuesday morning or as MP Vladimir Marinkovic, so you can call to ask a question and say that one of them could have said that in Srebrenica there was genocide.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59202	I can get out of the bench, you know I can't get out of here, I have to take care of some order from here and invite you to at least treat each other decently, no matter who these people are.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59203	Not from here, you could've said that the day that freak said that, I'll tell you again, freak and shame for Serbia that someone like that exists, and now you can do whatever you want.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59204	I think we're... I'm sorry, I'm just saying, I think we've earned as chairman that, well, here's the possibility... Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: You warn me, and she calls Serbia a genocide state. You have the right to say whatever you want and express your attitudes, but it's not right to insult ourselves and swear here, nothing else. And, anyone else, I'm not telling you anything, of course you have the right to an attitude, thank God.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59205	Come on, let go of me, you won't get a pack from the European Commission, or anyone, don't worry. (President: I don't care, you know it very well. ( ) As for these building apartments, you confirmed what I said in my discussion. So that's that price, plus VAT. Is that right? The settlement of Jugovic, in Novi Sad? Then it's about 600 euros, or whatever, that's the price of cost for anyone who builds. I told you, so don't take it easy and ask for your co-worker's help right now. I'm telling you that anyone who takes a brick today, a malter, whatever it takes, can at that price on their own land, house by, make a square meter of living space. It's a simple calculation. Why do you make it impossible for a member of the security force in any part of the city where more locations will be created, do so? You're saying that with us, it's defined for so many people. Simply, make it possible for people in the center, in other areas of the city, the same possibility in Zemun, Belgrade, Novi Sad, is possible in both Nis and everywhere. What's most important of all, what we're going to talk about in the amendments, is that other categories of employees aren't covered by this law. Even in countries and your EU, which Serbia will never enter, there are opportunities to buy apartments at the best prices, just members of their security forces, employees of the state administration, and this is no longer possible in Serbia. If we're going to share and how we're building, it's best known by people who, even during those most severe sanctions, get apartments and live with their family, precisely because that's what allowed them to be responsible.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59206	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, colleague Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59207	Mr. Chairman, Art. 27. In 106 it is about the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, it is obvious that some of my fellow MPs are still living at the time of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. The model they're talking about is that we need to resolve the housing issue of our security personnel is being overcome. He was at the time of Joseph Broz Tito, only then were housing cooperatives, so they were able to raise these loans through these housing cooperatives and thus make them. But then there wasn't even a rule with a building permit, then you shouldn't have made a pay, no project, nothing, you could have done whatever you wanted. So here we are talking about apartments, and they're saying that the prices of apartments, maltenes that every citizen can make an apartment, I'd like that doctor to teach me how to make apartments? Each man shall make his own dwelling, and he shall make his own; and every man shall make his own foundation, and his foundation, and his feet, and every man shall lift up his beams, and his pillars. How are they gonna make these apartments? And the price of the house can never be in construction works the same as the price of the apartment, it's always more favourable to the price of the apartment. So I agree, every MP has the right to say whatever he wants, but let him know he's talking about the relics of the past of the one-party system, like he was here until 1991.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59208	Thank you, colleague Arsic. Don't be mad at me. Do you want the National Assembly to declare itself in the day of the vote? No, I don't. Thank you. We're moving on with our work. The word has Ljiljana Malušić, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59209	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Madam Minister, with co-workers from the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today I will talk about the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on special conditions for the implementation of the apartment building project for members of the Security Forces. Namely, given the importance and responsibility of the security forces that this job is doing, and also the importance for the security of the Republic of Serbia, because these are people who are directly responsible for the security of the Republic of Serbia, guarding our borders, protecting our independence, because they safeguard our integrity. I have a special pleasure today to talk about this law, because after 50 years, they'll be able to solve their housing issues. So it's going to have basic conditions for life. Imagine a security guard from a security guard who guards our borders, who guards our dream, who keeps our peace, if he lives in private somewhere, so what's that man going to think about, whether he's going to pay the rent, where the family or for the first time will have the opportunity to solve his living issue, of vital importance. Fortunately and my joy, we are talking about this law today, and I just want to express my gratitude to the government and to our president, who in this way expresses respect for these people. In the first phase, we said we were going to build 8,022 apartments. Construction has already started in Nis, 792 is a projection for the end of next year, so 792 apartments will be completed in the first phase, 8.022 separated in the Republic of Serbia's 325m-euro budget, so the responsible government in the Republic of Serbia is doing so with our president. You know what surprises me? Today we are talking about something that the entire Republic of Serbia should be proud of, we are solving the problem of security members today, means the MUP, but there is the military, there is the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Justice, the perpetrators of criminal sanctions and the addition of changes to this law is that there are now and there are fighters, as well as families of fallen fighters, but also peacetime and wartime military people with disabilities. Bravo! That's how it works. We'll solve the decades-old problem. And, not only that, but this law is going to make the entire industry, and we're going to have various construction industries, engineering, we're going to hire small medium-sized enterprises, employment will reach some limit that will be, retail, the average of Europe. In 2012, unemployment is 27%, and today it's 11.9, with this even less. Bravo! That's how it works. We have a large selection of 32 square-square apartments, and these are garages, up to 92 square-square flats, and who's going to be able to get this apartment? Anyone who hasn't solved their life issue and who has complete documentation. They won't be able to get a flat of those security forces who've estranged the apartment, if they've given it to the kids, sold it to the moment when we're passing this law. There will be significant GDP growth in the area of construction, but not only that, an increase in income from the property tax, which is extremely important, and this law triggers the Republic of Serbia to make tax payments. What I would point out is that people may not understand very well why the price of squares in Belgrade is 500 euros, which is extremely favourable, where luck is that there is such a price everywhere in the world throughout the Republic of Serbia, because the owner of the land is the Republic of Serbia, because local self-government is obliged to make infrastructure, so 500 euros is a decent price. Then, in other southern Serbian cities, or anything other than Belgrade, Nis and Novi Sad, there will be an even lower price, it will be 420 euros from the PDB, of course. Bravo for the Government of the Republic of Serbia, for your ministry, for what you've done, I mean 300km of roads. The roads haven't been made in 50 years. The most modern in the projection is another 600km of roads. Quick tracks, stripes, bridges, tunnels. Here's the end of the leg, Corridor 10, South Leg, we end the Eastern Leg by the end of the year. We're building Corridor 11, so it's Moravia Corridor. We'll make it to all the checkpoints, all the cities across the Republic of Serbia. We'll have the largest road network to the color of the population. There's a lot to say, there's a lot of speakers. I thank you, just keep up the good work. The SNS will vote with pleasure for the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59210	Thank you, colleague Malusic. My colleague Mircic and my colleague Marinkovic are in the system. Comrade Mircic, do you want a replica or a breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Milorad Mircic: Authorised representative. No, it's not a dispute, just a replica or a breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Milorad Mircic: Replica. ) Given that my colleague Marinkovic wants to hurt the Rules of Procedure, I must give him an advantage. Here's a colleague of Marinkovic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59211	Thank you, dear colleague Milicevic. Dear Mrs. Mihajlović, with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am advertising Article 27, and I will refer to what my distinguished colleague Arsic said, and it concerns the Constitution, respect for the Constitution and everything that we fight for as a majority. Here are several years in this Parliament, but also in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and it is in fact about defining a society and a system that has competence and competitiveness for its pillar. So, a modern market where people, so citizens, will race who's more capable, who's better, who has more knowledge, who's going to have better and better quality private initiatives, and that's how we make a country that's competitive, so a country of competitive individuals. It's not in this country. It's over in 2012. We keep telling the citizens and here in this room to our colleagues, there is no "free lunch". People, the first lesson in economics at the Faculty of Economics. There is no "free lunch". There is what the Deputy Prime Minister, Mihajlovic, and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the President of the State, are doing to create a good and quality economic environment, investment, creating added value, surplus in the capital investment budget, and of course what is needed for the state to be socially responsible, as it is by building such apartments, which, of course, we can't talk about apartments that cost 300, 400, 500 euros, or God forbid they're free of charge. It doesn't exist anywhere. It costs, but it pays for a strong state, a rich state. A country which has a surplus in the budget and which has an increasing and higher tax inflow, from contributions, inflows from investments and inflows from all those who generate additional value in this country. Don't let us talk in the 21st century, in 2019, about something that exists for free. There are only able individuals, capable government, capable minister, MPs who create an ambience that these individuals can work without a problem, and for those who can't secure the market, we do exactly this kind of thing. It's a modern country. Thank you. I don't want the National Assembly to come forward in voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59212	Thank you, colleague Marinkovic. I respect and respect your position and the explanation you gave when it comes to Article 27, but I haven't been able to listen to the previous speakers. What I could hear was the presentation of my colleague Malusic, so I couldn't, as chairor, do a violation of the Rules of Procedure, specifically of Rule 27, which refers to the insistence and consistent respect of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. I have to ask you anyway if you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure.? (Vladimir Marinkovic: No. No, no, no, Thank you. Replica, MP Milorad Mircic. Here's a colleague of Mircic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59213	Well, I don't see why this kind of anger about this debate, especially why the lesson it gives us is more or less every time there's a minister who should be here defending his legal proposal. When we come to power, the citizens of Serbia will decide, but what is evident, and you don't know the SRS in 1996 tried this model and the first pilot, the model that was applied in Serbia is precisely in municipalities where the SRS was then in power. It was the municipality of Zemun and the municipality of Temerin. And there's your village, Busia, Blue Horizons, and in Temerino, you have the village Sirig, you have Kudelajara. And that's at a minimum price, but we didn't hide anything. There's a belief here that the state is devoting 325 million and that the state will make apartments for the needs of security personnel. That belief is how you represent it. This is where it'll all bloom. Even someone here says the machine industry is going to develop. Okay, maybe the airline industry will develop, but not to caricate now, this is a serious topic. We just want the public to be explained, if the state invests 325m euros for building these apartments, for building costs, to say clearly -- there will be a bank that will provide favourable loans at extremely low interest rates, with a repayment deadline of 10, 15, 20 and 25 years and which will be the bank. Why? Because we have bad experience. Gentlemen, remember in 2008 when loans were granted through commercial banks to soldiers. It was then announced on television that the ensign in Panchev bought a three-bedroom apartment on very favourable terms, used his torment, 11-year-old tenant, and said he had raised a 25-year loan with participation, under very favourable conditions of 6.9% interest. What's the matter? Turns out he cares about it. We just want you to let the public know, and if you were mean, we'd tell you right away -- here's 300 million savings. What you gave Bechtel and what you want to give Bechtel, cut that price, give the Chinese 500 million. Eight hundred million minus five hundred, that's three hundred million. There's the savings. You don't need it from the budget, you'll save it yourself, if you're mean and at the end of your heart, but we're not, we're not like you at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59214	I thank my colleague Mircic. The word is "Verica Radet, "injury of the Rules of Procedure." Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59215	It took me all three minutes to think about how to help you on the basis of article 32 as one of the vice presidents, because you really had a situation before, you just came here, you replaced a colleague who intervened in the Rules of Procedure because he must have broken the Rules of Procedure because no one else could. The point is something else. The bottom line is, I hope it doesn't happen to you, that chairing as soon as she's mentioned there was a person who wrote that Srebrenica was a genocide, jumping into defense, instead of intervening from that place and from this place and from every place in the public, to intervene every time someone says that Srebrenica was a genocide, that we all jump in the worst possible way to condemn anyone who says something like that, but they've all turned around and now they're all protecting this guy, Chongradin, what's called, and what she said was a genocide in Srebrenica, they've all put it in some tenth plan. That is the essence and that is something that is trying to force Serbia. You know, little by little, we're going to be in a situation where it's going to be a perfectly normal statement, as is normal for last night, for example, the Public Service to show a forecast of time without Kosovo and Metohija in Serbia, as is normal for almost all media to say "government of Kosovo", "parliament of Kosovo", and all because we haven't all reacted every time something like that is said. So now we all have to react every time someone says that Srebrenica was genocide. Is it a man? Is it a woman? It's completely irrelevant. What difference does it make, now what protection is it, what are these women, white bears? I'm sorry, as a woman, I would never ask for such protection, because it's completely pointless. Are you in politics? It doesn't matter if you're a man or a woman, whether you're this old or this old. Are you in journalism? Doesn't matter which half you are, how old you are, are you a professional or aren't you? That's the point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59216	My colleague Radeta, I can't, as chairman, express my position, but you know very well my position as head of Parliament's group and I think you've had the opportunity to look at it and listen to it that day. But I have to ask you, given that at this moment I am the chairman, do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? (No) I thank you. Minister Zorana Mihajlovic has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59217	Since I heard, among other things, that we're talking about not having arranged enough locations, that the Serbian government hasn't prepared all this, that it's not really social housing, and someone else would have done it differently, just to remind us, too, that when that person was doing it, then these posters were assigned to build without any municipal infrastructure. It cost people, among other things, a lot more than their utility infrastructure was arranged. So if we put it on the cantar now as it used to be, I'm afraid those who talk about it wouldn't be easy for them to listen to it. The Serbian government has prepared a special law. Our obligation is to create conditions that security forces can buy apartments. So it's not social housing. What is important, I repeat again, are apartments according to all European standards. It's our place to do it, because nobody had done it before, and these people couldn't buy apartments and couldn't have their own apartments, they were in different accommodations or, among other things, they were renting apartments. That's what the essence of this law is, and here it's only a supplement that we thought should be part of this big project. The Serbian government is strong enough and strong enough to guarantee and invest over 300m euros to build 8,022 apartments and provide local self-government to arrange the municipal infrastructure, never to see when it rains again one cannot enter his apartment and his house, which, thank God, we have had the opportunity to look at in some previous period, from a variety of promises. Although it's not a topic, I think two different topics are here, one question is Srebrenica, which should always be condemned by each and every one of us, and the other question is, so do we have the right to be public figures to insult anyone, whatever that someone said? I don't think we have the right to insult anyone and to speak to anyone anything ugly from all kinds of epithets. And a little by little, as someone here said, I agree, it turns out we have representatives of some parliamentary groups that have already become normal to insult women. It's not about the last insult at all, it's about all the years before. That's my attitude, my personal attitude. So that's two different things. Don't interfere, therefore, with the judgment of Srebrenica and the question of Srebrenica, therefore, that there was no genocide, but on the other hand, no one has the right to insult anyone and to say ugly things about any of us or any of them. I think it's two different things. It's just that, nothing else.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59218	Comrade Mircic, do you, as an authorised representative, want a replica to be presented to the proposing representative? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59219	First, there is no greater insult than one country and one nation to declare genocide. There is no greater insult. It's an insult to insults and when, if at all, a graduation of insults can be done, then it's the highest degree of insult, the worst insult. In doing so, the official government's response goes to the point of proposing a change in the Rules of Procedure and a code of conduct to change, in order to prevent those who insult journalists. The journalist says Serbia is genocide, that she is ashamed to live in a genocide state. Is there a bigger insult? There isn't, there isn't. Secondly, you are absolutely right if you alluded to the village of Bussi and what the SRS, implementing the local government, allowed then expelled from Republika Srpska from its hearth to build a roof over its head. We had, believe it or not, similar, perhaps even more difficult to fight with the then representatives of the government. They barely let themselves, to their own misery, if we hadn't entered the government, Serbian radicals would not have allowed them to join the power, but we conditioned that they had to have electricity, that they had to have elementary conditions to live in that space, which they did by themselves and by their own work. Believe it or not, about the sewerage, about all other infrastructure equipment, there was a very difficult struggle, even some at the level of the city of Belgrade, which unfortunately did not live, more aid than those in power in the Republic. I guess they thought that this way they'd go to the foreign representatives, that they'd go out of their way and then be commended, as they are now. Let's not hide at all how and how a man can solve a living problem. You have to say clearly, no one will condemn you, clearly you say – the government is giving out so much money, but it goes through the bank, these loans will be for so many and so many years, with interest and that, and nothing more. Because as it appears, exactly what you want to deny, such an impression is made, that the government gives it away. It's not a gift. These people have to pay those monthly payments for their profits. Whether wars are big or small, we'll see in the future. Everything is relative when it comes to the height of the war.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59220	Thank you. Replication rights, SNS deputy president Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59221	Yeah, looks like that's the impression that's probably the most important thing today. And read Alexander Markovic, our authorised representative, what one of the models looks like. There's something I wouldn't say to make the impression that this model is bad. So, 1500 participants, 50 euros a month, to settle the housing issue permanently. And I didn't hear that there's a nicer, better and more suitable model, just stories on the subject – you solve the problem, you could do it differently, a little better, a little wider, a little faster, with this or that competition or the procurement, but not the way you do it. Constantly, from topic to topic, we who solve the problem get the only comment from those who, of course, haven't solved that problem, and no one else has done it, you can do it differently. We who do the Corridor get comments on the topic – why don't you do it one way or the other. We who build apartments get comments on the subject – why don't they just be like this or something. And every question, but literally everyone we solve, just because it wasn't solved, just because no one found a way to move a little finger, so to do what they're saying today, we solve it, and we're left with to solve it, we get only comments -- and maybe it could be a little different. But in none of these things, remember, in none of these things, they showed that they are better than us, except that they may be able to talk a little wider or a little longer, but to do nothing, or to do anything, or to show no one, but absolutely no one can do better than Alexander Vukic and SNS, or the apartments to do did not show for the security forces or any other sector, no one has shown that they can do better than Alexander Vukic and SNS. Well, if we're also talking about our relationship with our people, our history, our recent or something older, no one has shown more respect but in actions, in practice, not words. These people who are going to get apartments, and they couldn't imagine them, are the very people who protected the Serbian people in both Serbia and Montenegro and BiH and Serbia's Krajina. We have made these solutions possible for them, and, as we can see, we have expanded the scope of the procedure of the people to whom these solutions can be applied. Who showed that kind of concern? This way, no one ever does. The only thing left may be some story why don't you do it a little differently, but what's the alternative? That's where the minister was absolutely right. What's shown in practice how someone else can do it? It has been shown that, for example, the DRI found that at the Old Town municipality level, hundreds of apartments disappear within a year, on the Vračar municipality, that's what Mr. Markovic said, two hundred. If these are the things to compete with what we're doing today, so I think that's the difference that only comes in favor of us.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59222	Thank you. Right on line, MP Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59223	What's this all about? This is about the simple fact that the public needs to know as much detail as possible. This is only one option when it comes to a commercial bank called the Post Office. Is there any possibility of including other commercial banks, since the law itself, or in addition to the law, provides for companies to be involved? Is there that possibility? Why do you accept everything at the end of your heart when we say – you know what, the Post Office offers these conditions? Have you talked to any other commercial banks? Look, every bank that monitors this project finds some interest, it's a huge amount of apartments, it's 8,000 apartments. Don't ignore that fact. We're just talking about being clean bills. Just remember how it started, and where it used to be the Duke of Steph's barracks. Then the army minister came out and all the bells were revealed that the minority states had given it away. Says 77 apartments were given to the military, conditions regular, minors like the commercial banks. It's not the point of making a promotion. It is not essential that we dispute anything when it comes to the expansion of those who have the right to gain an apartment in this way. We are merely stating the possibility that other citizens must be thought about. Yours, as a government, is to respect it or not to respect it, but every detail must be known. If Mr. Markovic told us about the Post Office, we ask the promoter – did the government have a conversation with other commercial banks? Have any other commercial banks expressed their wish? It was formerly a " Commercial Bank" which also monitored apartments in Stepa and later when Minister Vulin shared keys, etc. Just to see people, to know whether they have an alternative or to follow the entire Post Office project, or to open a story with some other commercial banks. You have no reason to realize that we have something against building these apartments. Don't say that. You identify, oppose attitudes and opinions by us being against each other. No, we are in, but to know everything. Not tomorrow when it's broken, and God forbid it's broken, who can now, what's it worth to us now that we're calling the Shooter and the others. It's not worth anything to us, along with you. It's a finished story. It may have been an opportunity to go, then they promised, so just remember that alone, I apologize, with President Užica, Markovic, he signed, which was his party, a contract on the possibility of making apartments in Užica for military persons, or security workers, and what was it? Nothing. When asked, what did he say - the conditions of local self-government were very unfavorable, so we couldn't, and what did he not say when you signed a contract with a member of your party who was at the head of Užica? That's what this is about. You know, there is a folk who is afraid of snakes and a lizard. Therefore, we need to explain everything to people. If it's a good intention, there's no reason to hide anything, God forbid, from people.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59224	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic right to replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59225	Everything that turns out to be controversial, I have to notice that it has nothing to do with us, but with those who did these things on the Wizard, which I mentioned, this Old Town, they've been doing, and they're working today. That's what I mentioned. It's all some sins that they need to take on their souls. They took part in these things, we don't. I'm glad we ended up agreeing to get along and support this kind of thing. It kind of worked out for me, maybe I made a little bit of a mistake, forming the impression that when someone says you're not doing anything good and useful for people, that it doesn't exactly support it, that when someone says you're pushing people into corners, periphery, it's a bad location, I thought he didn't support it. If he supports it, then maybe I misjudged some conclusions. It's a good thing you support smart stuff. When you say interest, when you say benefit, I say state, I say folk. Is the Post Office owned by the state? Is it? Are Serbian firms hired to do this? They did. Is, brother to brother, 80% of the material from here? Yes, it is. That machine sector and the equipment used, is it in the same percentage from here? Yes, it is. Is that all of our benefits? You bet it is. Will it help our development when such projects are realized? It will. In the end, these good conditions and those quality apartments, will they get our security forces, the people we respect for those reasons we keep talking about here today? They will, they'll get it. It won't get either the IMF or the World Bank or the EU, you'll get people. So, members of our security forces who deserve it, and I'm glad if we agree it's in the interest of this country and this people. In the end, to support something like this, buildings that exist that are fantastically already rising on construction sites and that, when they're complete, will look this nice, look at that, that's something that, I agree, if it's supposed to be the conclusion of the day and the common message, here, deserves to be that. About other things, we always call, there's an open call, today and every other day, let's compete in what turned out to be. Whoever can do better than this, than Alexander Wolf and SNS, let him say, "Here I am." The one who participated in the Wizard or participated in the Old Town in the disappearance of the apartment overnight, after God's trail to get in, I don't think he can compete in good things, at least not today.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59226	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59227	This is a much more complex situation than it wants to be presented. (Veloljub Arsic: He is Josip Broz. ) Arsic has something coming up. To tell Arsic carefully, Tito died after all, I checked, he died. Don't be so sad, maybe he's been living for generations, but here's to you for information. This is about far more complicated relationships than it seems at first sight. This is where the land is taken from local self-government. This is where local self-government needs to do the infrastructure. This is where the Republic Government transfers compensation for all or part of the compensation that local self-government needs to do. That needs to be regulated. You know, the easiest thing to say is, you know, it's an obligation of local self-government, it's the government's obligation to do it, but in the balance sheet, it has to clearly define how much input and what obligations local self-government and government are. That's what this is about. Don't let yourself live in the belief that local self-government has so much resources that it can be sprayed to secure all of this. Maybe you can give some local self-government. Let's say, as Kragujevac, you're giving me no favors. The government is giving the Kragujevci money. It's not worth it. It's like a bottomless hole. I'm just stating an example. It's not about whether we trust you or Orlic or any name or last name from the SNS. We have bad experience with the Minister of Resort. Just promises. Ever since she came to the government, only promises. The time has passed, it is not fulfilled, when asked, she says, and some other circumstances have turned out, justifiable circumstances. Why? Because there are traces much deeper than you want to admit. Dinkic also participated, her former leader, in such projects where he showed photographs, where he announced that Serbia's rebirth was almost in realisation. That's not gonna happen. We accept everything with the reserve. Anything with a spare, believe me. We know that this land you're taking has to be paid. Somebody's got to pay for it. This infrastructure has to be paid, because these are costs, real costs. If you can do it all in these 500 euros, great. Understand, it is justified that the SRS, as an opposition party, accepts everything with a reserve, especially when it comes to the resolution minister. We've got this big reserve. A very, very large reserve, because it's not behind what most of the words it says, in the public it says, it's kind of standing here because we're correcting it with our public appearances, but you've witnessed it yourself, you've seen it give more attention to something other than what's the point.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59228	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Veroljub Arsic, right to replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59229	Chairman, my esteemed colleague, Milorad Mircic, is constantly seeing Comrade Tito, constantly seeing Comrade Tito. I asked you if you knew when the MP Joseph Broz would come to the Assembly. He mentions another Tito. I didn't mention another Tito at any time, not at any time. Now I don't know what those reasons are, do you regret anything that happened during Comrade Tito's time? You know, back then, the state took loans all over the world, so they made apartments, they gave them all away, and so on. Now here's the transfer of SNS which has allocated certain resources to start building apartments for members of security forces, and now be careful if we limit it to a number of these housing facilities, that's where we'd end up, we'd have to resupply the funds, and the question is would we have them for a new one, let's say, a tour of apartments. It's like this one time apart. So there are no limited numbers of people, because they are sold through sales of these apartments on non-marketable conditions to the state and allowed to start a new project to build new apartments until the job is completed. But those who dream of another Titus will never be clear to them.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59230	My colleague Mirčić, I will give you the right to a replica, but before she pointed you to the violation of the Rules of Procedure of her colleague, Verica Radeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59231	I'll be real quick. I wouldn't say that the breach of the Rules of Procedure is Article 32 again. You, Mr. Milicevic, would probably say what I'm about to say, but you're just not in a position to get information because you're currently holding the presidency, and the information is next -- people from the field are telling us, there's already news in the media that in the Manajle tunnel four inches of asphalt broke, the depth is four centimeters, that one tape is closing, and that already there's a traffic jam problem now in the middle of the tourist season, so clean, maybe the minister should go on the ground to see what's going on, if he's going to go, here, we're ready to let her go, because she went there, right, to finish that end last year. She said New Year's Eve would wait there and then she'd lead the whole bulument to open up, to drive that part. Mrs. Mihajlović, I'm sorry, not very much for you, but I'm sorry that something like this really happened in the middle of the tourist season right now, in the middle of all the traffic on the roads. We were all looking forward to this highway working, and we all looked forward to how much faster it would go through Serbia, how our people would travel faster, when what, here today, closed one strip because of the big cracks of four inches deep.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59232	My colleague Radeta, you know that the violation of the Rules of Procedure can only be done by me, and since I have to ask you, do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the day of voting on the alleged violation of the Rules of Procedure? (Miss Radeta: No.) I thank you. My colleague Mircic, you will be entitled to a replica, but a representative of Prime Minister Zorana Mihajlovic has appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59233	I know you must be very excited about the fact that within the guaranteed deadline "Integral" worked, among other things, that share. Four inches, it's not a tunnel of Manndale, just so there's no confusion, and there's no need to raise an alarm about it because it's a thing that happens on many roads and it's literally maintenance. Four centimeters, so now count how many four centimetres on the road, not in the tunnel, one. Under two, "Serb Corridors" and "Integral" are already working and within 48 hours it will be resolved and it is neither the first nor the last time. So these are the things that happen here and in Europe and anywhere on the load, of course, of course, the performers, because the road is in a guaranteed time, but I believe you're very excited about it and don't worry about it -- I'll go check to see if it's done right, because I have no problem with it, neither I, nor the president of Serbia, nor the ministers, to show what we've done. I urge you once again to show what you've done, what you've done, and what you've brought down in the past I-ha-ha-ha years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59234	Thank you. Right on line, MP Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59235	I know there's a conditional reflex with fellow Arsic when Tito is mentioned and he gets up. It's already proven. That's what you even have in your elementary school textbooks, but that's where the sausages serve instead of Tito. Look, you're one thing to keep quiet, this country called the Republic of Serbia, its government is in charge of commercial banks operating in Serbia 5.5 billion euros. Five and a half billion euros. That's the information available. It was eventually the Ministry of Finance and the National Bank announced. Five and a half billion. We're just asking -- from what means will the government of Serbia finance? We're just asking -- what are the commercial banks that are possibly still interested? As far as this question is concerned, I must tell you, we are proud, proud, to rise to the sky that we participated in the creation of Republika Srpska. One stone we contributed to contribute to the Serb people's entity, which has all the prerogatives of Republika Srpska, along with individuals sitting on the opposite side. And what did you do? You tried to bring her down and try to bring her down. What have you done with your arrival? It's the biggest shame for a political scene. Together with DOS, you have come, the biggest shame for Serbia and the Serb people. It is a dark age for Serbia, it will be black-lettered in Serbia's history on October 5th. We're proud, we're still proud, we're sad we didn't keep RSK, we're sad, but we support anyone who's fighting for Serbia's integrity with Kosovo and Metohija, everyone, and among them, unfortunately, you're not the resolute traffic minister. We don't enjoy any accidents, especially the hawari that happen. Only when you're going there, do I have one request in person. Put away that transparency with Dodik. Maybe people are going to blame him for that asphalt in there, too, because it's being done by a company whose head is a man who's close to him. Put that away. He doesn't have a function right now. He had a function when that stock was opening. Now put it away. I don't know if she's still here. Please. It's a personal request that a man should not bear the blame, and I assume that the performer will remove it, as well as this Greek performer that removes all shortcomings.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59236	I thank my colleague Mircic. The speech has a representative of the promoter, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure, Prof. Dr. Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59237	Let me tell you something. The company "Integral" is one of the best companies in these areas. The most difficult things that should have been done in the Grdeliska ravine, sir, were doing just 'Integral', one of the best construction companies this space has and of which some other and foreign companies, as well as ours are learning. So, are four inches in 24 or 48 hours going to get better? He'll get better. We're still not just finishing the south leg, we're finishing the east leg. There's a lot going on in Serbia and only one who doesn't see on purpose, only one who wants to criticize, and if he knows that he probably left nothing behind, but left wars and all sorts of ugly things, he can say so. So "Integral" is one of the best companies. The road is safe. It'll be a safe and eastern leg. New corridors will begin, and that is what is most important for Serbian citizens. So I don't see any reason to take away the transparency. That banner stands. I think he's good, and he should stay here. It is our responsibility to make sure that the path is well maintained and that what is in the guaranteed, and later on in the next deadlines is done on that corridor or on any other one in our country.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59238	Thank you. Dear Arsic, do you want a replica of my colleague Mircic's presentation and my colleague Mircic's presentation of his proposal? I will allow you to speak, but only one request – if after that we can return to the order of the MPs according to the application for a word. Here's a colleague of Arsic's. .
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59239	Apparently, my colleague still has that fascination with another Tito. I was barely 11 when he died. He can prefer whatever he wants. Even during Comrade Tito, as he is often mentioned now, there are not so many roads made in Serbia. Seems to me that's the biggest problem for the defense attorneys of the character and the actions of Comrade Tito. In these five or six years, 300km of highways have been built in Serbia. Come on, somebody tell me what the government has ever done, but it's never made 300km of highways in Serbia? Or we could count by the year that's miles. Let's do that, too, but I don't think I can use all the computers, the calculators, the papers and the pens to find that kind of information. There isn't. And then we'll always get hold of something, those commercial banks. There's a Commercial Bank, and these are business banks and they're not just funding the state. In this case, they don't fund it at all. They're funding security forces. Now if someone wants to think that the choice the bank is going to use is a member of the security force, where it gets the most favourable conditions. Well, my people he's repaying that loan. He's not being brought back by the state for him. It was during Comrade Tito's time. Not now. They printed money during Comrade Tito. Not now. They had residential cooperatives, so you give money to the citizens, never build a house or anything security. That's the kind of system we want to live in, so once again, the same problem is solved by one of the same people. That difference between us and them and they haven't learned yet that Postage Bank is a state bank, so let them learn once.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59240	I thank my colleague Arsic. Comrade Mircic, I ask you, after that, to return to the order of the MPs according to the application for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59241	Now I'm telling the truth. I expected my colleague to use this replica on my calling to tell the resolute minister, that no one from Serbia has launched a war, especially the SRS. I expected to be honest, because my colleague belonged to the SRS at the time of the wars, and he took part in it himself. The war was waged by those who listened to the Americans. Don't lose sight of it. The fact that you stay in the past and want to condemn and blame Serbia at any cost, especially the SRS for everything that has happened in the premises of the former Yugoslavia, is your personal problem. You still have a chance, is there sitting among the MPs of the SNS many who personally participated in the struggles. Not just men, but women, honest men. They didn't start the war. No one started the war. It was not the Serb from Knin who attacked Zagreb, but the one from Zagreb attacked Knin. It wasn't the one from Sarajevo who moved out because he was glad to go to Pale, but because as an urban citizen of the city of Sarajevo, he was forced, forced, forced to flee the city. How can you not remember that? Where's your conscience and conscience? You don't have it. And I admire you, my colleagues, that none of you has the courage to say, "I am sorry, Ministers, you are wrong." And he doesn't need to say anything else, but be quiet, be silent. Why? Because you keep your mandates, because elections are uncertainty. After all, you directly accused your party president, Alexander Vukic, along with me and many radicals, of going to war. And it's his fault for the war. You accused him. You have accused many of your colleagues from the present party. But what does that mean to you? You party, you change the game more often than socks, so it means nothing to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59242	I thank my colleague Mircic. Since you mentioned the SNS president during the presentation, now the right to replica has SNS MP Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59243	Here's what I see is that there's been a lot of passion here. Mr. Mircic, you don't need to lecture us on patriotism. I'm distracting you to take a nice Article 2. The bill also spoke of my esteemed colleague, Aleksandar Markovic, as an authorised representative. From the date set out in Article 2. The bill clearly shows that SNS has the courage to say everything he thinks about what happened in the former Yugoslavia's premises. I'll only give you some dates. On August 17th 1990, barricades were erected by Serbia at Knin to prevent Croatian flies from breaking into Knin. Are we ashamed of that? No, I don't. Did we put it in the bill? We've got it on. On April 20th, the minister defends the bill. What's to convince the minister? Mrs. Zorana Mihajlovic defends this bill. She's behind it. And we're all behind it. On April 20th 1992, did we form the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia as the legal successor of the SFRY, 19th of May 1992, the date when we agreed that the Yugoslav People's Army would withdraw from BiH, because we wanted peace to be preserved in those areas. Is mentioned on March 24th 1999 until June 26th 1999, meaning the start of NATO bombing and the last day when the last member of the Serbian Army and the Serbian Army left KIM territory, in line with the Kumanovski Agreement. So in Article 2, for one who can read very clearly the SNS and SNS MPs have nothing to be ashamed of. They have the courage to say. We didn't start a war. We wanted peace. We cited dates that are important for the history of the Serbian people west of Drina. That's my opinion. That's the opinion of the entire parliamentary group. That's the minister's opinion. That is the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Come on, Mr. Milicevic, we can end this pointless contest in patriotism and in proving something that we all agree on. We all agree that Serbia is not a genocide state, we all agree that we are not a genocide people, we all agree that we need peace, stability, economic development, and I ask that we finally introduce this session into some regular flows, otherwise this has lost every sense, as it has lost its meaning and that anyone is giving us a lesson on patriotism and that it calls us out to whether we can say something. Everything we wanted to say, we listed among other things in Article 2 and from these days that I mentioned. It is very clear that the SNS and the entire ruling coalition and the Serbian government have nothing to be ashamed of when it comes to past events. We remember these past events, do not forget them, and what is very important, this bill gives recognition to the members of the security forces, regardless of whether they are members of the military, whether they are members of the police, the service of security who defended the Serbian people when they were difficult both in Croatia and in BiH and in KIM.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59244	I thank my colleague Martinovic. I fully agree with you that the session should return to normal flows. I had no intention of preventing a democratic debate and a democratic conflict of opinion, but we are too far away from the topic. Comrade Mircic, I will allow you, you have promised one sentence, but I really ask you to finally return to the order of the declared Members of the People. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59245	I live deeply in the belief that the Resolute Minister will take this very seriously. What Mr. Martinovic said is that he opposes your personal opinion, but you must, while you are a member of that party, accept that opinion.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59246	My colleague Martinović, do you want a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59247	I didn't understand you, Mr. Mircic. You now know what my party's position is, and I don't know. What's the attitude? About what? (Milorad Mircic: That we did not cause war and that we were not to blame for the loss.) ) So now you're saying that the SNS believes Serbia is responsible for the war, that SNS believes Serbia is a genocide state, that SNS represents the view that the Serb people in BiH, or in Republika Srpska, is responsible for the pricecid, is SNS's position? Mr. Mircic, it's nobody's attitude. You have one problem, the problem is that you are now introducing personal negative animosities towards Mrs. Zorana Mihajlovic. And now, whenever this woman shows up at the National Assembly, as if someone put a red cloth right under your nose, let's chase after her. First it was "Bechtel", so when we explained to you that there was no "Bechtel" in the bill anywhere, and now Zorana Mihajlovic claims that genocide occurred in Srebrenica. Zorana Mihajlovic claims Serbia is guilty of the former Yugoslavia's collapse. Come on, guys, I understand that you in the Serbian government have targeted several ministers, who blame you for everything. So it's a little bit of your fault, Zlatibor Lončar, so it's a little bit of Zorana Mihajlović's fault, so it's a little bit of this or that, but, come on, have some measures and don't put what they didn't say in people's mouths. Everyone has the right to their political stance. This is where we lead the controversy over things that no one has ever said. (Natasa Jovanovic: He said.) He didn't say. I followed the course of the session, I couldn't be in the O.R. because I had other obligations, but I followed the course of the session and what you claim is absolutely not true. As neither did what one of your colleagues said, who said that Aleksandar Vukic came to the Earth Gate and said -- here, you see, these are commercial apartments, this is what apartments for security forces will look like. And then Aleksandar Markovic reads to you the original statement by Alexander Vukic and says - this is an apartment for members of the security forces, and I hope that this is what the apartments will look like for young scientists and young couples, etc. Vladimir Orlic shows you a statement, shows you an apartment, shows you a photograph of a young married couple with a child and says - here, so many apartments built in Kragujevac, and you say - no, that's not true. How can I tell you, with people who won't see what is objectively there, there's no rational dialogue. You know, you now remind me of that Bible story from the New Testament, when Jesus Christ raised people, the sick, those who were blind, those who could not walk gave them the opportunity to walk, and you know what they were called - the Pharisees. They were called hypocrites. They saw it, but they pretended not to see it. That's how you do it. You see that highways are being built, you see apartments being built, you see that we're trying to get the country out of the crisis and you're acting just like the ones that aren't there right now. (President: I thank you, Mr. Martinovic. You don't see roads, you don't see new schools, you don't see new hospitals. No, you saw Zorana Mihajlovic, entered the Assembly, hit Zorana Mihajlovic. You can do it, it's your right. I just don't think it'll do you any good. And as far as I'm concerned, move on with it, I don't have a problem. I only ask the chairman that, since we are indeed, definitely, away from this topic, or invite your MPs to sit well in the hall like the MPs of the Serbian Progressive Party, that's one thing, so let's fight together. Because this is not a proposal by Zorana Mihajlovic, this is a proposal from the Serbian government. In the Serbian government, besides the Serbian Progressive Party ministers, the SPS ministers and ministers Rasim Ljajic and many others, means invite nice MPs to sit in the hall and, as far as I'm concerned, the session can last until midnight. Or, this debate that has become pointless, which no longer has anything to do with the bill's proposal and which has come down to the barbeque fire against the Secretary of Staff, stop and start talking about what the bill contains.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59248	As far as I'm concerned, colleague Martinovic, and I can sit for a very long time and I'm ready to sit down and run a session of the National Assembly. As for the MPs, I agree, MPs of the Socialist Party of Serbia will come now, but they are definitely in the Assembly. Comrade Radeta, do you want a breach of the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59249	I want to be a member of 107, but I don't want to interfere with that coalition relationship of yours. But there was really a lot of offensive words before. He started a colleague with some red scarf. If they react and run to red scarves, that's their problem, we certainly don't. But he says -- we're targeting Zorana Mihajlovic and some other ministers. No, we're talking about ministers we have information that are involved in crime. And we, Zorana Mihajlovic, when we see it, immediately think of Bechtel and 300m euros that have disappeared from the Republic of Serbia's budget. Col. Martinovic tried to, I'm not saying that he didn't mean anything by what he said, even most colleagues sitting there on their side, but Zorana Mihajlovic precisely said that we radicals left the ruins behind, that we had crashed in the past. And that's not her first time. She means the period when fatherly wars were waged on the territory of the former Yugoslavia. And we're just saying, every time we warn her when she says that to the Serbian radicals, she must think of Alexander Vukic as well. He was in the government she called the destroying minister of information. He had a very significant function and, let me tell you, he did a great job. But you have to get over it somehow, Mrs. Mihajlovic has to get that one of herself Dinkic and Labus and this Vuciceva to get along somehow. I'm sorry, obviously there's still one thing that's wrong with radicals, but whenever he says so, he has to make sure he thinks of the Secretary-General of the then Serbian Radical Party, Alexander Vukic, the Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, so if she wants to, here, we will defend Vukic, because we claim he was an excellent minister at the time and that he was an excellent Serbian and excellent radical.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59250	Thank you, colleague Radeta. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? (No) I thank you. The word has a representative of the promoter, minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59251	I will not enter into the debate, I fully agree with Mr. Martinovic, but only one thing. When you mention the word crime, and when you say you have evidence, or whatever you say, that I am in crime, I call again, publicly, that's what I did last time and I do it and now, so all the competent authorities, I suppose, are both prosecutors and whoever else needs to do their job, so I publicly invite them to check that Zorana Mihajlovic is in some crime and that Zorana Mihajlovic has any problem of this kind. I think the public needs to know. As you say publicly, now someone is listening and watching, my family and my child, then I call on the authorities to check everything I do and publicly say whether it is or not. And if it isn't, then I'll press charges against you, because it's inadmissible to talk to anyone without you before that... You file criminal charges, you ask the authorities to do the same. So you're looking for it, because I don't think it's right that that's how we argue, by fighting anyone that, with your famous ways of doing 30 years, half-truths, you're going to do that kind of thing. This is what my kid's looking at. Therefore, I call on the prosecutor for the fifth time, see if Zorana Mihajlovic has anything to do with any kind of crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59252	Thank you. Right on line, MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59253	I thank you, Chairman. The Socialist Party of Serbia and its MPs have always given support and support, as we have done today. Unpreserved support was not only in the bill's proposals, but in everything that was done. There is no single reason to qualify this parliamentary group in any way as someone who is obstructing or does not contribute to the work of this Assembly. Dear Minister, you've always had, as you well know, our support for everything you've done and we've given credit for everything that's been done and what's visible and what the citizens recognize. I don't think there's ever been any problem here, not just between us and you, but all of our ministers working with you in government. We have our capacity as much as we have - we have. We don't have any through it. And what we show, we show in the day of the vote. And then when the MP is no more than 134, 135, we're here 17-18. On this side, I see no single reason why the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group is calling for no contribution to the work of the Assembly to the extent it should be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59254	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. The People's MP Milorad Mircic has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59255	Perhaps I, Mr. Martinovic, look like what you're waving at him with red canvas to react. I may look like, maybe on the outside, maybe I'm acting like one, but there's nothing else I can say, but stay in that belief. We're talking about very important things here. The minister gives himself the right to blame the most direct Serbian radicals and those who were in the SRS for the war and all that has happened in the past. So what's more natural than us reacting? To mention some of the members of the SNS, it's just a fact of truth, that they were with us during that period in the party. You can't single out now, you can say – well, it's not. As well as you cannot be singled out from some events in which the SRS participated during a certain period. As for this appeal by the minister, I'm telling you, you really moved me. Remember only when Bozidar Djelic, Božidar Djelic, from a pay phone with a crying voice, angry, angry, told him not to touch his mother, not to attack him as a thief, and we were attacking him with a Serbian radical, and Arsic came here ahead. Veroljub Arsic came ahead. His power passed, his power passed, and he also called similarly—here, give the prosecution, let the prosecution prove it. Power passes, power passes, all evidence surfaces. God took 10m euros from Serbia, he lives in France and says he will now represent the French people and the French state Serbian culture. He will be a representative of the Serbian people who will explain to the French what the cultural tradition of the Serbian people is. He doesn't care. He's got 10 million. He can do whatever he wants. He's laughing, but it's a disgrace to the state, it's a disgrace and shame to him who carries responsibility for power. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59256	Thank you, colleague Mircic. The People's MP Aleksandar Martinovic has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59257	Here, I apologize, Mr. Mircic, I used that red cloth as a metaphor. I didn't want to offend you, not you, not your fellow MPs, not to offend anyone, I just asked you, if there's room for this request to be respected, that you don't satanize one minister just because you think it brings you certain political points and that you don't put on a woman's neck a burden that she doesn't need to bear, because you accused her of something she didn't actually say. That Zorana Mihajlovic disagrees with the policy of the SRS, all citizens in the Republic of Serbia know it, but that Zorana Mihajlovic said that Serbia is responsible for the war or that the SRS is responsible for the war, so I didn't understand it, and I don't think she said it, either. After all, everyone, including ministers in the Serbian government, has the right to their political opinion. On the other hand, do not expect to expect Mrs Zorana Mihajlovic to appear in the National Assembly, that woman must defend herself against completely baseless accusations. It's one situation that's extremely unpleasant. I, and not only myself, read to you by my fellow MPs 10 times that the Law on the Moravia Corridor does not say anywhere “Bechtel” and you constantly – Zorana Mihajlović gave 800 million “Bechtel”, gave 800 million “Bechtel”. And she gave the “Bechtel, ” and she gave the“ Bechtel. ” I read once, read Vlad Orlic, read Aca Markovic, read Arsic, read Atlagic, it's not worth it. I gave 800 million, then I gave 800 million. Now the topic is something else, now it is no longer important "Behtel", I'm surprised that you don't mention this "Behtel", or you mentioned it, but you didn't mention something like the past days, now the main topic – e, Zorana Mihajlovic said that Serbia is responsible for the wars and Zorana Mihajlovic said that genocide happened in Srebrenica and that we are a genocide state, etc. These are tight, as I say, tight structures for you. These are tight structures for you, and that woman didn't say it. As far as the bill is concerned, Article 2 clearly contains dates that are important for the history of the Serbian people in Krajina, or Croatia. (The Faith of Radeta: There is not enough of you.) Well, you're not here either, Mrs. Radeta, to be fair. When I was in the SRS, every MP had to sit in the O.R. and when they were amended, every MP had to defend the amendments. Here's how many of you are in the O.R., but that's your problem, that's not my problem anymore. That's not my problem anymore, that's your problem now. (The Faith of Radeta: You called yours.) I'm not calling anyone. I'm not calling anyone, I'm just saying, this is the bill behind which the Serbian government stood, and let everyone put a finger on the head of whether it sits in that government or not. (National Ambassador Natasha Sp. Jovanovic throws. I didn't attack anyone, I just realized that two SPS MPs were sitting, nothing else. I'm not attacking them, nor am I defending them. I'm not their dad, I'm their mom. I am the president of the SNS parliamentary group, making sure that as many SNS deputies as possible sit here. I take care, yes, and it is my political duty and my colleagues, to defend the ministers sitting in the Serbian government, who are delegated on behalf of the SNS and not to allow any of them to be satanic about the words he has not spoken. It's my political obligation and I will, while I'm president of the parliamentary group, do it without bringing personal emotions into this business, because politics and emotions I don't think go together. But what's simply not true is not true.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59258	No need to take a break, keep working, we're here to work. I can't answer from this place, but there's a colleague, Jovanovic, so of course he'll get a basis for replication. As long as there's a basis for replication, there'll be replicas. Here you go, colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59259	Let's make it a replica this time. If there is any need for the Rules of Procedure, there will be a Rules of Procedure. Once again, no matter how many of us are here, there doesn't even have to be anyone, Mr. Martinovic, we'll always have full support for you, for the government we're in and we'll be participating in that government in the best possible way. And we will always try to share the same values you have and that you promote by protecting the interests of Serbia and this people. We've never run from it, we'll never run from it. We know where we are and we know what our potential is, we know where we are compared to you, and we know exactly how much we can do, we do more. I just deliberately mentioned one fact, when it's voting day, there's always us in the number in which it expects not only the SNS, but the entire coalition, just as much as we need to pass the law. When the board sessions, there are just as many of us as we need for the quorum and we never missed it. I think it's time we stopped this rhetoric and this controversy, to get back to the agenda. The Socialist Party of Serbia will remain consistently on the principles it has so far respected, which is exclusively co-operation with the SNS, exclusively a struggle for the interests of Serbian citizens, exclusively a struggle for the interests of the Serb population in Kosovo, for our foreign policy which no one can doubt is successful and make sure that together we will achieve those goals, no matter how much someone has qualified us in a different way than I am saying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59260	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. The People's MP Aleksandar Martinovic has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59261	Now I'm probably taking the risk of being criticised by my party president, because this isn't exactly the usual situation. But, Mr Jovanovic, with all due respect to the SPS, it is unacceptable for me as president of the SNS parliamentary group that there are more SRS MPs who are opposition than you who are in power. I am fed up with the public impression that only SNS is in power in Serbia, so all that's wrong is Alexander Vucic, and it's SNS, and we are great, we support the Serbian government, but we are not in the Assembly. Well, I can send these people sitting in cafes, sitting in restaurants, and when it's voting day, come to vote day. What does that mean to you - we're in voting day here? Is that some kind of act of mercy? Am I to be immeasurably grateful now because you invited your MPs to come to the National Assembly session in the day to vote, and when we are to fight every day here, sits one or two MPs. It's not just your parliamentary group, there are others. As far as I'm concerned, you don't have to come to the voting day, there won't be an end to the world if some bill doesn't pass, but let's stop making that kind of two categories of MPs. Now, my MPs are slaves, those people have to sit here from morning till tomorrow and defend everyone who comes here in front of the Serbian government, you're not even sure what great gentlemen, I should be immeasurably grateful to you, you say -- in voting day, MPs... So, where are my MPs in voting day? Is everyone here? Of course they are. But what does that mean? You support everything the government of Serbia does, Alexander Vukic tells you – yes, it is, but what are you in coalition with Mark Bastic then? What does that mean? We support the government of Serbia, and here we are in coalition with those who pull traffic signs. I mean, let's get things cleaned up. Now I, as president of the parliamentary group, can kindly ask these people to leave the hall, I, as president of the parliamentary group, will remain Vladimir Orlic, will remain one, here are two, ladies, as you have them, and great, and so will I support the government. It can also be supported by the government, but that is not the way, and it is not a good picture we send to Serbian citizens. As far as I'm concerned, none of you have to sit down, this bill doesn't even have to be voted, elections can be tomorrow, but the citizens of Serbia know who works, and whoever doesn't, they can see it. As deputy president of the parliamentary group, please, as well as other presidents of parliamentary groups, share responsibility with us, since you share and power, share both responsibility and burden for working in the National Assembly. I've been under the impression for days that we're not even here. We are equal when it comes to rights but when it comes to obligations most of the burden falls on SNS MPs. Here's a list of speakers, your MPs one, MP SDPS one, all the other SNS speakers. This is not the draft law by Zorana Mihajlovic, to let Serbian citizens know, this is a bill that came from the Serbian government. In that Serbian government, you have the first Deputy Prime Minister, you have ministers in the Serbian government. Here you are, also from the SDPS parliamentary group, you have a minister in the government of Serbia, you have a vice-president of the government, please gentlemen, come to the National Assembly and work with us. What does this mean? These people are crazy to sit here all day long, from morning till tomorrow, and we are great gentlemen, we say, we come in the day to vote. We want to apply that principle, too. So, please, be a responsible coalition partner like us, share responsibility with us, and defend the bill's proposals, which are not the draft laws of Zorana Mihajlovic, but are the proposals for laws that come from the Serbian government. If we sit together in government, then please, gentlemen, let us sit together in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59262	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59263	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mr. Martinovic, this coalition was not made by you or me, but by two people, which is Aleksandar Vukic and Ivica Dacic. Only those two men can determine the work of this entire coalition. It's not the first time a liability burden is transferred to the SPS. I'm not going to dispute the fact that you pointed out because you're right, there's exactly how many of us we are here, on the other hand, you're in that number that you are, certainly underneath that number that the SNS has, far below. I didn't want to hurt anyone or insult anyone. First of all, I'm not that kind of man, and in this assembly I've proven both the decency and the culture of behavior, which I think each of us should have, and that's why I didn't want in any way to make an insult when I said it was 17, 18, 20, and we're some kind of excess to pass the law. On the contrary, just because you say so, let's share the responsibility. It's exactly the motive of my apparition, we share responsibility with you, and we will always share it, and that problem will not be. If you are dissatisfied with the work of anyone, our minister, any of the ministers, it is no problem to point it out, but where it is to be discussed, only those who have set up this coalition, Ivica Dacic and Aleksandar Vukic. Respect for the president of the state, the SPS has never kept a secret and there has always been transparency in it, the values and results of its work, the entire government, the SPS has always supported and respected it and will always do so, but all in the future that you have for criticism or remark, bring out the one who has the right to point out the SPS if there is a problem, and that is your President and our President, Alexander Vukic. If he really has anything that could prove to be a mistake in the work of the SPS, we're here to talk about it, and we're here to conduct such discussions, I don't think it's appropriate. It is not appropriate because, as a party, we have always made a full contribution to the cause of the government. It was not the first time that Ivica Dacic of your members attacked the SNS in a very way that could not be accepted as appropriate, but we did not respond, we did not respond to such attacks, but Ivica Dacic dealt with it with the one with which he should be dealt with, and that is Aleksandar Vucic. Yes, it is, but I do not want to open and apostrophe, I ask you, once again, to stop this debate, Mr Martinovic, and you and I have always had extremely good co-operation, extremely correct, and MPs want it, they want this co-operation to continue as such between you and us, between the SNS and the SPS. What you have noticed tonight, as far as the number of MPs is concerned, it is certain that with us and Djorda Milicevic as president of the parliamentary group and me as his deputy, it will be worth it anyway, that this is no longer happening, but rest assured, our MPs are always there, for whatever it takes, will always be there, and when it takes what is most expected of us, support, we will always give it. I'm thanking you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59264	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. Right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59265	I won't answer my word again. No one insulted Hansel Dacic, none of us, nor do we have that in mind. As far as I'm concerned, none of you have to sit in the National Assembly, the SNS MPs will continue to discuss the bill, we will defend the bill that came from the government, which was done by the resolution ministry led by Mrs Zorana Mihajlovic. Whether or not someone is going to sit in the hall, as far as I'm concerned, that's no longer my problem, nor is it the SNS parliamentary group's problem. If you want to sit down, if you don't want to sit down, you don't have to sit down, if you want to come to the voting day, come, if you don't want to come, you don't have to come, nothing in life has to. I'm 43 years old, not much, but enough to know that in life there's only one thing to do, everything else doesn't have to. So, you do your job, we'll get us. You mentioned the president of the Republic and the president of the SNS, I know what direction he gave me, to work, to sit in the National Assembly, to fight with my colleagues and colleagues for a different and better Serbia, and he didn't send me to the National Assembly to sit in a café, to look at the boutiques, or to sit on Belgrade, Danube or Sava rafts. You, Mr. Milicevic, please also give a word to the next speaker on the list, because we want to work, who won't work, that's his business.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59266	My colleague Martinovic, and I am here as you see me working, and I agree with you completely and very well, at least I know that nothing in life has to be done but one. Unfortunately, I know that. On the other hand, I am absolutely convinced that no SPS MP is in the places you spoke of, which you mentioned, and we are here to do a responsible, serious and dedicated job for which we have taken responsibility. The word has a folk letter from Olivera Pesic. Please sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59267	Thank you. Dear Deputy Prime Ministers with co-workers, ladies and gentlemen, last year we passed a law that allowed it to start building apartments for members of the Ministry of Defence, for members of the Serbian Army, members of the BIA, as well as for members of the Administration for the Implementation of Criminal Sanctions at 500 euros maximum. Today on the agenda we have amendments and additions to laws that extend the circle of the person who will have the right to apply for the purchase of apartments under such favourable conditions and this right will be obtained by fighters, members of families of fighters, war and peacetime people with disabilities. That is the essence of these changes and additions, and that is certainly something to be commended. According to the law we passed last year, apartments in seven cities are being built in the first phase. In four cities it has already begun building apartments, such as Vranje, Nis, Kragujevac, and the King. In Belgrade, we heard, construction is expected in October, and in Sremska Mitrovica and Novi Sad, work is planned to start in mid-August. At the first so-called A phase, the construction of 1,530 apartments is expected, and it is important that Serbian citizens know that 792 apartments are already being started, i.e. 792 apartments are being built. In a report that we had the opportunity to read, and today we hear from the Deputy Prime Minister, the work is progressing quickly in Vranj. Four residential buildings are placed under the roof, all rough construction works have been completed and in February 2020 it is expected to move into these apartments. Also, according to the report we have seen, the works are well progressing in the King, 50% of the works have already been completed. Today, there have been objections to moving deadlines to finish work in certain cities. I think the reasons for moving the deadlines we've heard from the proposing representatives are objective. Given that construction has been under way for decades, I think the most important thing that's started is what's going to be built, and the deadlines are going to be moved in a few months, I don't think it's essential. In the first B phase, it was planned to build another 6,492 apartments, so a total of 8,022 apartments for members of the security structures. And what's important and what Serbian citizens need to know, even though it's tried differently today, is that these apartments are built in good locations, with all the necessary municipal infrastructure, with kindergartens in the environment, kindergartens, hospitals, schools and all that is needed for a normal life. As for the price of apartments in Vranja and Kraljev, it will be 400 euros per square metre, in Sremska Mitrovica 430 euros per square metre, in Nis 450 euros per square metre and in Novi Sad and Belgrade apartments will be sold at 500 euros per square metre. Also, the objection to the work of opposition MPs today in the Serbian Parliament was that representatives of the proposing party, or that the Deputy Prime Minister took a stand as if the dwellings were being given to someone. It simply does not stand for a representative of the promoters, and we, too, MPs of the SNS, simply want to explain to citizens how favourable the conditions that the state of Serbia has made possible for members of the Army, members of the Serbian Army, the Ministry of Defence, the Department of Criminal Sanctions, to buy apartments on favourable terms. If we look at an example of a bank's loan and also about it, counterpart Aca Markovic, Aleksandar Markovic, spoke, if someone takes a loan close to 16,000 euros to buy an apartment of 36 square meters with a 30-year repayment deadline, he will pay 53 euros in the loan war. I think these are very favourable conditions. Also, if we compare the price per square metre currently on the market in Nis, which moves about 1,200 euros per metre square and price that members of the security structures will pay 450 euros, citizens will judge for themselves how favourable these actually are. I think that it is clear to all of us the importance of the work done by those who protect national interests, and in this sense I believe that there are no citizens in Serbia today who will not support such a project, that these people resolve their housing issue under such favourable conditions, as I repeat once again, that something like this has been waiting for decades. The opposition MPs' remarks in the morning session that these apartments are being built because the elections are going and that the SNS will eventually get voters simply don't stand. I am sure that opposition MPs, as well as Serbian citizens, know very well why a law like this was passed last year, why only last year can we think about building apartments under very favourable conditions for members of the security structures, because only last year have conditions been created for this, because the state of Serbia was facing bankruptcy when the SNS took responsibility for the state's handling. Only last year, after economic reforms, after severe fiscal consolidation measures, were we actually able to pass one of these laws. I am sure and deeply believe in the policy led by Aleksandar Vukic and led by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and I am sure that we will have a point on the agenda that we will decide to build apartments for young couples and other categories of citizens in Serbia, as it was today one of the most common remarks by opposition MPs. In the second phase, as we heard from the promoter today, there are seven more cities to be realized. Among these seven cities is the town of Leskovac. The Deputy Prime Minister is aware that Leskovac has two locations, one of which is fully communally equipped and of course there is the need for citizens' interest and my question towards you, of course, is delegated from interested citizens when the second stage is expected? In principle, I heard you say it was next year. I wonder, is it going to wait for the full completion of this first B phase, meaning that all 8.022 apartments are built, or are they going to move along with the realisation in those cities where, I say, the conditions are created, or provided for such a thing, as in this case, the town of Leskovac? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59268	Thank you, colleague Pesic. The word has a folk emissary, Ana Čaapić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59269	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs Mihajlovic, with associates, ladies and gentlemen MPs, when a country has a situation that we had until 2012, which is a GDP of minus 3.1%, a record high unemployment rate of 27%, a huge surplus of public sector employees and a destroyed economy, the only thing that could have been done under such circumstances was fiscal consolidation measures, i.e. reducing public spending in order to reduce the deficit and the huge public debt inherited from the previous regime. We have successfully implemented fiscal consolidation and today we have stabilised public finances. Today, instead of the deficits in the budget that we had during the DOS regime, we have a surplus in the budget three years in a row. Instead of GDP minus 3.1%, we have a 4.5% GDP growth. So today we are in a situation where we can talk about the realisation of infrastructure projects. Today, the Serbian economy has strengthened so much that we are in a position to discuss a special law defining specific conditions for the implementation of the housing project for security forces. In addition to being a function of strengthening the national security system, the law aims to strengthen the construction sector. The law specifies that only domestic economic operators will be engaged in the construction of apartments. So, on the one hand, we provide housing for people who do the hardest work in our country, people who defend our people's right to freedom and who care about our security, while, on the other hand, by hiring a large number of economic operators, we influence GDP growth, we affect the growth of living standards, those people who will be engaged in the realisation of these projects and we influence, in addition, economic development in the Republic of Serbia. It was precisely the largest growth in the first quarter of 2019 that we had compared to the first quarter of 2018 in the sector of the processing industry and in the construction sector. And that seems to me, a total of about 32,500 of our citizens are more employed this year than the previous in these two sectors that I have listed. By 2012, we had the growth of the number of employees in the public sector alone, and the salaries and the surplus employees in the public sector and everyone else who worked at the time in the public sector paid out of the very expensive loans we took abroad. Today we have a healthy-based economy. Today, we have more people working in the private sector than in the public sector, which was also the aim of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is because the gap in profit levels between the private and public sectors has been reduced. When it comes to building apartments for security forces, it is important that these amendments and additions to the law provide for a greater number of persons who will exercise the right to housing, which are fighters, members of their families and military people with disabilities. So, building apartments for these purposes, meaning for security forces, was almost unimaginable by 2012, and today we have a situation that since 8 February we started building apartments in two cities, which is Nis and Vranje. Since 22 April, we have started construction in Kragujevac and Kraljen, while housing for security forces is expected to be built in Novi Sad and Sremska Mitrovica since October and Belgrade. The most important thing is that this project is planned to expand to teachers and doctors, which is really good. So, Serbia today is economically strong. We can also boast that the realisation of infrastructure projects is totalling 14.5 billion euros. Important partners are China, which participates with five billion euros in the construction of road infrastructure. There is Russia, which is involved in the construction of a dispatch centre and in the reconstruction of the bar track, and there are many other foreign partners who see a serious and safe partner in Serbia. Dear Minister Mihajlović, not only did you manage to build a total of 446km of new highways in collaboration with all government members from 2014 to 2018, but you are working in parallel on the reconstruction of existing roads. Recently, in the camp of Corridor Serbia in Beli Palanca, you held a meeting with representatives of the municipalities of Toplička County, and on that occasion you announced that right in Prokuplje, Žitoraj, Blac and Kursumlia, where I come from, some 2.6 billion dinars will be invested for the construction of road infrastructure, which is good not only for the development of the entire Toplice, but is good for all Serbia. When a country has good roads, there are new tourists for us, here are new investors for us. While these failed politicians from the Alliance for Serbia in the most brutal way insult women who think differently than they, the president of Serbia, you, all members of the government, do something good for Serbia and the citizens of Serbia every day. Of course, the SNS parliamentary group will also support these laws and agreements and all that is in the interest of Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59270	Thank you. The word has the people's messenger, Andrian Avramov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59271	I would like to stress the importance of today's addition to the Law on Special Conditions for the realisation of the housing project for members of the Security Forces. The primary general objective of this law is that we have in mind the importance and responsibility of the work that security forces carry out and the advantage of supplementing that law specifically refers to Article 3, where, under the members of the security forces, we also think of our fighters, families of fallen fighters and military people. This law addresses the largest number of outstanding housing issues for security forces, while, at the same time, as a country, we contribute to GDP growth in the area of construction, we employ domestic construction industries, where the need arises and we contribute to the growth of VAT revenues on a variety of grounds. The bill stipulates the right to purchase an apartment under much more favourable conditions, and above all it relates to persons who do not have a permanent residential need. In the current and next year, it is planned to build 8,122 apartments, actually in the first phase. We've already started building certain apartments. We are building apartments for security forces in Vranje, Nis, Kralje, Sremska Mitrovica, Kragujevac, Novi Sad and Belgrade. Today's law that is before us, and all the previous and future ones are actually proof that we have money in the budget, all in order to help our citizens. We have touched every segment of solving the burning problems, while our predecessors, the so-called democratic authorities, have turned their heads on the difficult issues for our society. Security forces are not political decor, which everyone remembers in election campaigns. War veterans need their rights, except medals. You've given the state what's most valuable and it's your turn to make it up to the state. I would like to remind you that our President, Mr. Aleksandar Vukic, has already met with representatives of the Association of Military Disabilities, where regular coordination at the monthly level has been agreed in order to address the problem, where no of their rights will be violated or denied. All misunderstandings between the government and members of security forces will be smoothed and we plan for the future SNS, headed by our president, to be an honest partner in creating legal regulation and resolving other important issues. The fact is that in February of this year, we passed a regulation on the right to receive monthly cash during the unemployment of wartime wartime disableds from armed actions after 1990, where we are actually entitled to monthly income during unemployment starting with payment from January of this year. The city of Belgrade also provided apartments for military people and their families in December 2015. We are aware that the issue of housing, treatment and work is the most important item for security forces and we will and we can improve their status in every segment of life. This is how we resolve your life issue and our President, Mr. Alexander Vukic, fulfils the obligation to you. This is a clear message for all of us to take care of those who deserve it, who put us in charge, but it is also a reflection of our respect and gratitude. We're going to keep trying to give you as a state the life you deserve. I'd like to apologize on behalf of the previous government, who had no hearing and no way to solve this problem. The opposition, or dissatisfied political professionals, are making constant criticisms about our policy, the regime, anything, and in the first place money and turning their heads from the burning issues and their resolutions, because to think differently, they would, respected citizens, sit in parliamentary benches here on our right and my addressed question to them is – is there anything that SNS, headed by our President, Mr. Alexander Vukic, is doing responsibly and professionally? The most important consistency in our policy is to build patiently and thoroughly, and the work itself is to gain the desired weight and results, thereby affecting our society, and that is what our citizens recognize. The people recognize people who have built a political stance, people who want to change our country for the better, people who are not afraid to express their opinion and public political commitment. I'm proud to have the awareness that it's not enough to do a text with a nice, but a false message behind it that needs to be hidden and thought was done enough. Dear citizens, the time has come when we must fight on all fronts and all means to defend our status and dignity, and all with a goal we want to do even better and even more for our citizens and our country. Examples of such access are: reducing the public debt of the Republic of Serbia, opening new factories, opening new and state-of-the-art hospitals, new roads, new bridges. This is how we resolve our life issues and our President, Mr. Alexander Vukic, fulfills our obligation to us citizens. The Serbian Progressive Party thus shows that we are solving problems, that we are serious and that there is no reason for us not to be in the future. We will certainly uphold this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59272	Thank you, colleague Avramov. The word has a national letter from Desanka Repac. Here you are, colleague Repac.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59273	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I welcome Mrs. Mihajlovic and her associates, respected colleagues and dear citizens of Serbia, there is today a very important law, a law relating to the bill on amendments and additions to the Law on special conditions for the implementation of housing projects for members of the security forces. Realisation of this project is of general interest to strengthen the national security system of the Republic of Serbia. Given the importance and responsibility of the work that security forces are carrying out, the importance for the security of the entire state, all of us, as well as those who have made a significant contribution to security, defence of sovereignty, independence and the territorial integrity of the state, and most of them have not solved the housing issue in decades, it has been decided to address this problem. This law leads to a system solution, i.e. it permanently resolves the housing issue of employees in state institutions, knowing the importance and responsibility that security forces perform or have carried out. There was a need to amend and supplement this law. On December 11, 2017, in Belgrade, Serbia's Palace, the first meeting of the government's commission for the implementation of the proposal, the housing programme for members of the security forces, the defence ministry, the Serbian Army, the MUP, the BIA, the justice ministry, as well as those that retired in these institutions. The Government Commission was formed on the basis of a proposal from the National Security Council, which took place on 16 November 2017, and the government's conclusion of 20 November 2017, and on 4 November 2018, a Commission for the Coordination and Construction of Apartments was established. One of the Commission's government conclusions is that, in order to make the project more meaningful, it is necessary to amend and supplement this law and that the right to purchase an apartment under favourable conditions is extended to fighters, secondly, families of fallen fighters, thirdly, wartime military people, fourthly, peacetime people with disabilities. The law should specify in which area members of security forces, as well as all those persons, may exercise the right to purchase an apartment under favourable conditions. Realisation of this project will affect GDP growth in the area of construction, domestic construction industry, employment growth. Given that this law has determined the obligation of domestic economic operators to participate, the growth of VAT revenues on all grounds, the increase in income from property taxes. As the Prime Minister once said, Serbia should say thank you to all members of the security service for doing such a difficult and dangerous job. This is a way to repay them. This law by its legal nature is a lex specialis. Compared to other laws, it is possible, as this project is important for the national security of the Republic of Serbia. While some fought, bled, killed for the salvation of the state, others robbed, enriched, destroyed Serbia. That is why it is little to say thank you to fighters and families of fallen fighters, military wartime people and peacetime people, and that is why they were given this opportunity. It is good that the government recognized the need and that it included these categories of population in this law. Mrs. Mihajlović, thank you, for your work, will, endurance, sacrifice, consistency. You've done a lot, you've done a lot of work, and it's done a lot. You can see that, and it's very transparent. All of this couldn't have been realized if it hadn't been for the President of the Republic of Mr. Alexander Vukic who believed that change was possible, thanks to the idea, his courage, his determination to make risky decisions. Today Serbia is a major construction site, built on all regions evenly. Aleksandar Vucic has economically elevated the Republic of Serbia, works hard to change the image of Serbia, leading to modern Serbia. I'm sorry the opposition won't be able to see all this, which despises and hates their country and people who live in it, that they've lost their decency and courtesy. The large clusters of opposition Trifunovic, Obradovic and Djilas, along with them, are blinded by wealth and do not see what is actually done in Serbia, how much Serbia is changing and where it is going. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59274	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Ivana Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59275	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Deputy Prime Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, today when we talk about amendments and additions to the Law on special conditions for the implementation of a project to build apartments for security forces, it is certainly important to repeat once again, that it is already in progress to build apartments according to current acts and being conducted in southern Serbia and central Serbia. So Nis, Kraljevo, Vranje and Kragujevac, as well as the fact that we expect in a month in the north of our country – Sremska Mitrovica and Novi Sad, and in Belgrade in October of the month. The importance and responsibility of the work carried out by security forces, as well as those who have made a significant contribution to the security and independence of our country, has certainly given room for the responsible authorities to see the importance, as well as the problem faced by persons due to unresolved housing issues that have not been discussed for decades. Today, it has been approached by amendments to this law, and it is in order to make the project more meaningful. Practically extends the category of persons who can buy an apartment under special conditions. Realisation of the project is of general interest to strengthen the national security system of the Republic of Serbia. It is also important to note that the implementation of the project will affect GDP growth in the area of construction. Further, during the construction of apartments, domestic construction firms are also employed, increasing the employment of our citizens, as the law also stipulates that domestic economic operators should participate. When the construction of these apartments began several months ago in Serbia, a whole campaign was conducted by those who are not at work today, who are not in the Assembly today, who did not show up when we talked about the safety of our children, for example, about amendments to the Criminal Code, which were not there when the situation at KIM was discussed. They boycott such work, but they do not boycott the congregation register, so they also told these apartments that the state separates a large amount of money. It is true that the state separates a large amount of money for such a project, gives subsidies, or helps people, or what they say when they are paid into the account of a particular money, from the same state, to which they destroy the reputation of every opportunity they get, or from a people who are reluctant to do so. These projects help people. These measures enable them to remain in their cities, in cities where apartments are built, and where they will be in the future, personally the President of the Republic, Mr Aleksandar Vukic has already opened many factories, that several hundred people have been employed and that they will be even more employed. Likewise. These cities have modern roads, modern railways, new schools, hospitals and kindergartens. So, the settled housing issue, the job issue is settled, good communication. Isn't that enough reason to say that the responsible government, that this government really cares about the citizens of the Republic of Serbia? Certainly in the voting day, the SNS will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59276	I thank my colleague Nikolic. The People's Messenger Nenad Mitrovica has the word. Here you go, colleague Mitrovica.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59277	President-in-Office, respected minister with associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, today we are discussing amendments and amendments to the Law on special conditions for the implementation of the apartment building project for members of the Security Forces and the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on the establishment of joint controls at the border crossing for international road transport of Presevo-Tabanovce. When it comes to amending and supplementing the Law on the Construction of Apartments for Security Forces, it should certainly be taken into account the importance and responsibility of the work carried out by members of the Security Forces and their importance for the security of the entire state, as well as those who have made a significant contribution to the security, defence of sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity of the state in earlier war activities. Starting with the highest number of unsettled housing needs of state-run officials among security forces, a Commission has been established to coordinate activities in the construction of apartments for members of the security forces since 4 October 2018 in order to implement the procedure more effectively. One of the government's conclusions is the need to extend the right to purchase apartments under more favourable conditions to fighters, families of fallen fighters, wartime military people and peacetime military people, and to specify in which area members of security forces, as well as those persons, can exercise the right to purchase an apartment under more favourable conditions. I would like to commend and support the efforts made by both Resoring Ministers Zorana Mihajlovic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the efforts and commitment of President Aleksandr Vukic, to build 186 apartments for security forces in Vranj. There's a ground security zone nearby. A large number of security forces are working in the land's security zone under extremely specific and complex working conditions, and have no settled housing issue. These security forces would solve the decades-old problem they have. It is important to note that realisation of the project will affect GDP growth in the area of construction, employment of the domestic construction industry and employment growth. Since the provisions of this law set out the obligation to participate domestic operators. On the agenda of today's session, we also have an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on the establishment of joint controls at the border crossing for international and road traffic between Presevo-Tabanovce. The subject matter of the Agreement is the establishment of joint controls at the border crossing for international road traffic of Presevo-Tabanovci. Joint border controls at the border crossing will be established on both sides' territory by carrying out border controls and border checks for exits from the Republic of Serbia and border controls and border checks at the entrance to the Republic of Northern Macedonia on the territory of the Republic of Macedonia at the Tabanovac border crossing. Border control and border checks at the exit from the Republic of Macedonia and border control and border checks at the entrance to the Republic of Serbia will be carried out on the territory of the Republic of Serbia at the Presevo border crossing. In a desire to improve the movement of citizens and traffic of goods between the two countries and facilitate traffic across the common state border, especially now that the season of annual holidays is under way, we have opportunities to see crowds at the Presevo border crossing, both at the exit and at the entrance to Serbia. By bringing this agreement, we will provide a faster flow at the border crossing of both passengers and goods and services, but obviously we will also increase the volume of traffic through Serbia by building and letting in traffic of the southern arms of Corridor 10, so that we now have more passenger and freight vehicles passing through our country. Bringing this agreement will increase interest in passing through Serbia's passengers, as well as in transporting goods and services. In voting day, I call on fellow Members of the People to support the bill's proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59278	I thank my colleague Mitrovica. The word is a folk letter from Stanislava Janošević. Here you are, colleague Janošević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59279	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister with fellow Members, fellow MPs, distinguished fellow citizens, I must confess that I can't break the impression from yesterday's session where we had a law on enforcement and security on the agenda. In the people, when you say an execution, it is immediately meant to execute a verdict on a criminal offence. And what's most interesting about that story is that there's a court in the world that has double arches, and that's definitely court in The Hague. Many Serbs were tried there. A lot of people are there and they end their lives. Some got out, some got sick there. These days, what is constantly being done in the media is the resignation of the so-called. The Prime Minister, so-called Kosovo states that resigned on the so-called A function so as not to tarnish it and as a civilian went to court in The Hague. Please, isn't that some kind of farce? Of course it's a farce, first of all, because he'll be back in two weeks because it's a college trip and then he'll become popular with his sympathies. It's just one marketing and one campaign. Why am I saying this? We live in a country that is small and unfortunately where there have been many wars and battles. None of them were conquerive. We fought defensive wars. We were defended by all our security units. I must tell you that the same you were trying to hijack a piece of our territory or to ethnically exterminate us. So how much longer? Of course, you ministers are not to blame, nor is the current government of the Republic of Serbia. It's your predecessors' fault. You're the first team to try to fix that question and to provide all the members of the security structures, whether it's soldiers, whether it's the police, BIA, war participants, families who died in those wars, with a roof over your head because that's the only and existential question that really belongs to them, and God's justice is that that's what hasn't been solved so far. I'm glad that SNS and the government are currently solving this issue. Minister, once you've solved this first and second phase, or 8,022 apartments, I'm sure you'll also be providing funds for the next phase. First of all, I am grateful because the Zrenjanin project is also foreseen and I would like all members of the security structures to have their roof over their heads. No doubt I will support this bill, and definitely my colleagues will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59280	I thank my colleague Janošević. The People's Messenger Blaža Knezevic has the word. Here's a colleague of the Prince's.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59281	I thank the chairman. Respected Deputy Prime Ministers with associates, the basic idea of the Law on building apartments for members of security forces is to improve the standard of living for people who make Serbian citizens feel safe. Our security forces work day and night to keep our country calm, safe and safe for all citizens living in it. Given the importance and responsibility of the work they are dealing with and their importance for the security of the state, defence of sovereignty and independence, it has been decided to approach the system's solution to this problem. We should never forget the problem the state of Serbia faced in 2012 when our finances were devastating, and the state led to bankruptcy. By coming to the power of the SNS, everything is changing from the ground up, the state is fiscally consolidated, and the economy is based on real and stable finances and, of course, as far as infrastructure projects are concerned, nothing could be realised overnight and people from the ministry know it best. The wise, smart and responsible policy of Aleksandar Vukic is being hit with the foundations of stable finances, so the conditions for realising a large number of important infrastructure projects and, among them, the project of building apartments for our security forces were met. How much these people are sacrificed and willing to help their people in any situation, and even in the most difficult, they remember the citizens of Sapca in 2014 when the catastrophic floods struck Serbia, and the flood wave threatened Shapac. The irresponsible city government has done absolutely nothing to defend the city. At that time, the government of the Republic of Serbia, headed by then-Prime Minister Aleksandra Vukic, joined our security forces, the Army of the Republic of Serbia and the MUP, and before the government, Minister Mihajlovic was present. This sacrifice and the assistance that our security forces have provided to the citizens of Zapca, the Chapians will always remember. That is why this law is good and will contribute to better living conditions for security forces, but something that no law has, which is because members of the Republic of Serbia's military, BIA and the MUP bear within themselves, patriotism and love for their country Serbia. These people daily face the threat of our country's security, both from external action and from the actions of the enemies within Serbia who are trying to destroy our country's security for a handful of dollars and a little bit of private government. Much more painful and insidious are those who come from within, people who exhibit an unprecedented dose of hatred attacking, muddying and humiliating their country always and in every place. That is why we are obliged to provide better living conditions for people who are doing a very difficult and important job, which can only be realised by the state and the government who is responsible for their citizens by protecting them through security forces and by giving them the right to live in a peaceful, stable, safe and economically regulated country, so full support for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59282	I would like to thank my colleague, Knezevic. The word is made by MP Dragana Kostic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59283	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, MPs, citizens of Serbia, one of the points of the agenda today is also the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on special conditions for the implementation of the housing project for members of the security forces. The safety of a country depends on its government and its president. It is now high-level in Serbia and reflects on all the social fields of our lives. The housing for security forces is just one step away from many of the people the Serbian government is taking in that direction. Our Government's decision to build these apartments, in addition to the housing of security forces, achieves other economic goals such as GDP growth in the area of construction, employment of the domestic construction industry and employment growth, growth of VAT revenues on various grounds, increasing income from property taxes, cutting the time needed to complete administrative procedures, reducing administrative burdens and many other objectives and effects that will come after the completion of the construction of the apartments. Last year, when the ministry conducted the survey, nearly 20,000 security forces responded and were interested in building these apartments. With this addition and amendment today, the number will certainly be higher, given that other categories, such as fighters, members of the home of fallen fighters, war-war invalids and peacetime military people are covered. I ask one question to the former government -- where they were and what did they do when they allowed so many security forces to work and serve this country without a roof over their heads? However, since we know that former defence minister, Mr. Dragan Sutanovac sold everything he could about the weapons, when he sold the most modern mine-hunters class for some small money that had joined the Ministry of Defence, and everything else was in his pocket. He sold these mine-hunters as a kilo of aluminum to someone who today uses these mine-hunters as rafts on the river. In addition to the sale of two miners, there were too fast and criminal write-offs of complex fighting systems, however, destroyed a number of anti-aircraft systems and missiles, as well as many T55 tanks. That this no longer happens to our country and that we never have another Sutanovac who, together with Tadic, bought unusable liaison systems and threw about 130m euros, but also got a significant commission, more than tens of millions of euros in the voting day, I will support this law, as well as all other laws proposed by our Government and our President Aleksandar Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59284	Thank you, colleagues. Kostic. The speech has a representative of the promoter, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure, Prof. Dr. Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59285	I'll take this opportunity just to give the information, because before the second part of the session you asked me about asphalting in Alexinco. So, in the beginning of next week, a street asphalting begins on Monday. Previously, of course, with the gratitude of local self-government and all local self-governments that, among other things, end the sewerage and all that is needed before the asphaltation occurs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59286	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Radovan Jancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59287	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear People's MPs, respected Mrs. Mihajlovic, there is before us a law on amendments and additions to the Law on special conditions for the implementation of a project to build apartments for members of the security forces, which we adopted on 25 May 2018, adopting that day the initiative of the President of the Republic of Serbia and the Supreme Commander of the Serbian Army, Aleksandr Vukic, that all members of the security structures in our country be taken care of, faster and under extremely favourable conditions, to resolve the life issue of the roof over their heads, for themselves and their families. This is really the best way, the path we haven't gone for a long time, a path that shows that we have become an organized state that appreciates its members of security, which takes care of them and their living and working conditions, about their families, and that they do a job of vital importance for our country. Did 30,000 security forces have no roof over their heads and their families before 2012 care about the state and its leadership? Of course not. Their goal, led by the DS, with the president and commander-in-chief Tadic, Minister Sutanovac, Djilas, Pajtic, Jeremic, Zivkovic and many others, was sold out into a waste of everything that could be sold, and the security forces weakened to such an extent that they could not accidentally defend the country, its sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity. Their personal goal came down to personal wealth. Today, with the capital measured by dozens and hundreds of millions of euros, Serbia's majority is absolutely clear that the capital owned by former regime representatives could only be achieved by the robbery of the state and its resources, the buraser privatisation, the corruption with the systematic collapse of the state and its institutions and the values of the Serb people, denying even the sacrifices we had in the past. You, too, except that they apologized around the world, and no one asked them for an apology, never remembered their fighters, their dead and their families, wartime military and peacetime disabled people who were killed in earlier war times, in which Serbia did not participate with its own guilt. These changes and additions to the Law on special conditions for the implementation of the housing project are the best way to repay all victims of security forces and not just their own, but their families. Hence, the proposal to extend the right to purchase an apartment under more favourable conditions to families of fallen fighters, wartime and peacetime military people, who are more than noble and who should be unreservedly accepted. During a review of the law proposal in May last year, it was skeptical to approach the implementation of this project. Of course to MPs, the works of the opposition that have not been present today, which have been gone for months, but which appear neatly in front of the Office of the Republic of Serbia's Office, citing then the project is impossible to realise at a cost of less than 500 euros per metre of a square residential area, as it is only marketing, the empty promise of Ms. Mihajlovic, Aleksandra Vukic and Vlada. The worst part is, they said our construction operation was incapable of carrying out this project. In their time, the truth, it was an impossible project, first of all because they destroyed the construction operation, and the price would be at least triple the price until everyone was installed and found in it. Today, Serbia is again a major construction site, with a restored construction industry, which significantly contributes to the continued growth of GDP, the reduction of the number of unemployed, and it is of particular importance that the implementation of this project requires the obligation to participate domestic operators. Dear People's MPs, a permanent settlement of the housing issue in this case for members of security forces is possible only in this way, systematically, as this government does. It is looking forward to the announcement of a new investment cycle that started at between eight and ten billion euros, which is why I am also sure that the projects will be designed very quickly to build apartments for the needs of employees in scientific centres, education and health systems, for all those who have not solved the housing issue, which, without the conditions laid down by similar legal proposals, cannot be resolved on their own. He looks forward to a picture from Vrana, Kragujevac, Nis and Kralje, Sremska Mitrovica, Novi Sad and Belgrade from which we see that with the realisation of the project for the members of the security forces started, which speaks of the responsibility of this government and President Vukic towards people who are doing difficult work of vital importance for the security of Serbian citizens. The news that in these cities has already begun with construction, as promised, of course not the media controlling the tycoon Dragan Gilas simply does not suffer the success of Alexander Vukic, this government and SNS. Finally, I am very grateful to Alexander Vukic, the commander-in-chief, who launched this project, which insists that this project be implemented to the end and thus shows that they are returning to the time when the state took care of the people who care about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59288	I thank my colleague Jancic. The word has a folk MP, Vera Jovanovic. Here's my colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59289	The Honorable Chairman, a respected minister with associates, today we are discussing a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on special conditions for the implementation of a project to build apartments for members of security forces. In December 2017, the first meeting of the Commission government to prepare a proposal to build apartments for members of security forces was held in order to educate the Commission on 4 October 2018 to coordinate activities in the construction of these apartments. The first phase of the project envisions the construction of 8,022 apartments in Vranja, Nis, Kralj, Kragujevac, Novi Sad, Sremska Mitrovica and Belgrade. The projects provide for the area of these apartments to be between 32 m2 and 92 m2. Serbia's assembly adopted a Lex specialise on 25 May last year that allows the construction of apartments for police and security officers at subsidized prices, to most of them at 500 euros on average per square metre. The first 186 apartments will be ready by the end of the year. I must point out that this is a major project that is on the initiative of President Alexander Vukic and the Government in realising this project. The right to compete for these apartments will only be given to those persons who are registered in those cities. In addition to the possibility of reaching the apartment, the interested will be able to raise credit on more favourable terms. For example, if the average price of the square is 400 euros for a 60m2 apartment, they will spend 70 euros monthly. The general objective of the desired change is to address the largest number of outstanding housing problems of security personnel, and will significantly contribute to GDP growth in the area of construction, employment of the domestic construction industry, employment growth, VAT income growth on various grounds, increased income from property taxes, reduced time needed to complete administrative procedures, reduced administrative burdens. We don't imagine the future, we build it together with our citizens. In the end, I can't help but look back at those colleagues that aren't across the street today. They never imagined it, but they built their own castles with pools and filled their pockets. These Gilasi, these Jeremys, are running a campaign today against Vukic, his family and all the ministers in the government. Those who justify the attacks on women, but forget that women are members of the SNS lioness and will defend not only Biljana Popovic Ivkovic, but also any other woman they go after in their not-so-rich vocabulary. In voting day, I call on my colleagues to accept the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59290	I thank my colleague Jovanovic. The word is made by the People's Messenger Dalibor Radičević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59291	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are discussing amendments and additions to the Law on Special Conditions for the realisation of the apartment building project for members of the Security Forces. The law is already in place, and these changes and additions only eliminate the perceived shortcomings. This primarily refers to persons who will be entitled to buy apartments under more favourable conditions, where a list of people who can compete for apartments is expanded. It is also necessary to stress the provision that Belgrade will be able to compete with those who, until the time of entry into force of the law, have a residence on the territory of the city of Belgrade. That the Ministry of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure, together with the Serbian Government, is responsible, also tells us that this serious project has already begun to be realised in four locations, Vranje, Nis, Kralje and Kragujevac. At these locations it started with the construction of 792 apartments, whose value is about three billion dinars. The next period will begin the construction of apartments in Sremska Mitrovica, Novi Sad and then Belgrade. The location, i.e. the works to be carried out with the construction of the apartments, was not chosen by chance, but based on the survey conducted. Based on the analysis that has been done, there have been locations that are interesting for members of the security forces. The total number of apartments to be built under this law will be 8.022, which means that so many families, those who care for our security, in peace and war will finally resolve their housing issues. Since the SNS has taken responsibility for the country's leadership, it has been evident that all parts of our country are developing evenly. It is equally invested in both the south and the north. Travel networks are being built as the primary condition for a region to develop. In order to build apartments and build a road network, we also need to have stable finances, and all this was not the case while the yellow company led our country. They made more sure they had their pockets full, not that they were responsible for running the country. They preferred to sell military technique like old iron, of course, with a good percentage for themselves, rather than to care for security forces. Therefore, a respected minister, your ministry, as well as the entire Government of the Republic of Serbia, deserves all the praise for the work they have done so far and for the responsible policy they are leading. That's why the percentage of votes the SNS wins in the election is the same as it is, because our people know that they recognize work and responsibility. But that's another reason to work faster and harder and better. That's why I have to ask you to come to Aleksinac, to start our final work on the asphalting of the Banjski road. In voting day, the proposed laws will have my support as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59292	Thank you, colleague Radčević. The word is made by MP Dragan Savkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59293	The Honorable Chairman, a respected minister with associates, respected fellow MPs, I will talk about a bill on amendments and amendments to the Law on special conditions for the implementation of the housing project for members of the security forces. National security policy is part of the common state policy and is implemented through a coordinated programme of measures and activities, which the state is taking to achieve the objectives of political national security. Its realization creates assumptions for the political, economic, social, cultural and overall social development of the Republic of Serbia. In view of the importance and responsibility of the work carried out by security forces and their importance for the security of the entire state, as well as those who have made a significant contribution to the security and defence of sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity of the state in the past war, and since the largest number of unresolved housing needs are among the members of the security forces that have failed to resolve their housing issue permanently for decades, it is necessary to address the same systematically. In order to address housing needs, it is necessary to adopt amendments and supplement the applicable law. It is necessary to amend and supplement the applicable law in a way that the right to purchase an apartment under favourable conditions also extends to fighters, families of fallen fighters, wartime military people and peacetime military people and to specify in which area members of security forces, as well as those persons, may exercise the right to purchase an apartment under favourable conditions. President Aleksandar Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia have recognised the importance of addressing the housing needs of security forces, and have joined the draft law and now supplementing the law, which aims to achieve the project itself effectively and efficiently. Stable state finances, serious laws in the field of planning and construction will definitely enable the project to be realised and to build apartments for start up to be for security forces, and later, of course, for other professions, such as young scientists, young couples and others. In the first phase, 8,022 apartments will be built in cities: Vranja, Kralj, Nis, Kragujevac, Belgrade, Sremska Mitrovica and Novi Sad, which will allow for the launch of the construction operation so that other economic activities that are directly related to the construction sector will be activated, and the production of construction materials and other accompanying materials needed for the construction of these apartments will be launched. Units of local self-government on whose territory apartments are built will generate income from property tax when the apartments are built and their owners type into the immovableity cadastre. The construction operation affects the economic growth and development of the Republic of Serbia and the gross domestic product. This encourages the work of small and medium-sized enterprises and stimulates employment in the economic sector, which is also the aim of the government of the Republic of Serbia. Also, a surplus in the Republic of Serbia's budget has been achieved. The construction of apartments for security forces was started in Kralje, Nis, Vranja and Kragujevac, and soon in Sremska Mitrovica and Novi Sad. Total in the first phase of 1,530 apartments. The start of building apartments in Belgrade is also expected, so the promise made by President Aleksandar Vukic is being fulfilled to move into a major project to build apartments for security services. In this way, we thank all members of the Security Service in the Republic of Serbia, within the framework of the MUP, the Serbian Army, the BIA, the fighters, the families of fallen fighters, the wartime disabled and others. This is the best way to repay them for all the sacrifice, not just theirs, but their families. The price of the squares provided, from 400 euros, 430 euros to 500 euros in Belgrade, without VAT, and given that for many members of the security service it will be the first apartment, it is possible to return the VAT. I have to point out that this is not about any social housing, because these apartments are built by the highest standards of profession and profession, and the state and local self-government are here to provide all the accompanying infrastructure, and this has shown that building these apartments is an opportunity to show how the state is creating a system, to take care of people from the moment they become members of the defence system, through education, employment, treatment, but also how they and their families live. The completion of this project will continue to build a second phase in other Serbian cities as well. For this project, we must thank President Alexander Vukic for launching this initiative, which he insisted on being implemented and which shows that they are returning when the state took care of the people who care about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59294	Thank you, colleague Savkic. The word is made by MP Boban Birmancevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59295	Thank you. The Honorable President, respected Deputy Prime Minister, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, today's exhibition will begin something that is not directly related to today's agenda, but is certainly for condemnation, which is the latest and last attack on Biljana Popovic, or attack on one woman. It's just the continuity of the politics of people who don't have brains, who have no brains and all the senselessness and all the impotence is just looking at it. Someone in his attempt to endanger the president of the state of Alexander Vukic and in his attempt to reach the authorities at any cost is willing to insult and attack women, without any basis, without any reason, and as such will never have support in this parliamentary majority, neither in the people, nor in the state of Serbia, nor anywhere where people want to live in a normal state. Their impotence is best seen in the attacks on women, and the attack on any woman is in fact an attack on the mother, on the sister, on the grandmother, on what we are, and we are here and we exist just because of women. So, the harshest conviction, all the impotence is shown in that. What is good, those who attack women simply have no future in this Serbia, and neither do they in the policy they are dealing with. I am returning to today's extremely important agenda point, an important and large project, 8.022 apartments, respected citizens of Serbia, the law stipulates, the law defined to build 8,022 apartments for members of national security. What's more important, apart from members of national security officers, i.e. the MUP, military and other services, is very significant, I will repeat, you've probably heard, but the citizens have heard once more, it's about fighters, military people with disabilities, members of families of fallen fighters. So, we're talking about the category of people who simply until the arrival of the SNS to power, until Alexander Vukic arrived as President of the Republic were simply forgotten. The members of the families of fallen fighters will have the opportunity to buy an apartment under the most favourable conditions, under conditions that have never existed on the market before and will not exist, this is certainly a Lex specialis and, as such a law gives free hands to the state to help those who need help. What some say is not a new idea, gentlemen, is not a new idea or building clinical centres, it's not a new idea or building highways, it's not a new idea or building bridges, it's not a new idea or investing in schools, it's not a new idea or investing in railway infrastructure, but the point is not a new idea, it's a point in law enforcement and results. He can talk to anyone, unfortunately unfounded, but he can talk. The story is not enough to reduce the quality and results achieved by this ministry and of course the state of Serbia with President Aleksandar Vukic at the helm. I know very well when the Ministry of Traffic, along with the Deputy Prime Minister, comes and visits some space, or solves problems, to solve these problems in full capacity and in full composition. As last week, the Deputy Prime Minister, along with her team, or the entire ministry, was in Corridor, solving key problems, in the right place and at the right time. In the same composition of the Deputy Prime Minister and the Ministry also appears in Šapac, Aleksinac, Somboro and Subotica, I know very well, I also remind the Sapcana, 2014 when it was a critical situation, just as the Ministry and the Deputy Prime Minister appeared in Šapac that night. After an hour the army arrived, but we are literally talking about the way we think, which is the way we think – we go in full capacity and do everything we need to do. Best possible result in the best possible way and within the shortest possible time. What especially characterizes this Ministry, because exactly everything we do when we talk about investing in health, education, culture, when we talk about investing in sports, it all comes back to investment and building. Just when a few years ago the minister promised that we'd speed up licensing, so it seemed like an impossible mission to people, and we're only two years from 185th place, I think we came to Top 10 or something. So, all that seemed like an impossible mission, they couldn't even promise it as a pre-election promise, well, this particular government manages to do and manage to turn it into reality. The Ruma highway – Shabac is no special idea, but the Ruma highway – Sabac promised everyone from another Tito and the Communist Union to this day. When this is the Ministry and when the President of the Republic, Aleksandar Vukic, said, yes, people, we will do the highway Ruma – Shabac, we will work a new bridge across the Sava River, we will make a fast road from Šapac to Loznica, no one from the opposition says – it may not be done. Yes, it will be done for sure, and the guarantee for it is precisely the President, Alexander Vukic, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and this is exactly what the Ministry and the whole team are doing. So, when some of the laws are proposed by the government, it goes through the Assembly and is adopted by the congregation's majority, that law is crucial. Why is he the key? Because it brings results. We're adopting laws so we can do what's necessary for the state. When someone talks about motives, what are the Ministry's motives, what are the government's motives to propose such a law? The motives are right now to do everything in the best interests of the citizens, in the interest of those who earned and owed, and we're talking about this law. It is a law which is certainly the law of the future but is a law that turns and looks both at the past and on the present and as such must be supported by anyone who is in the hall when it comes to voting day. I'm just curious about which MP they won't have and won't support a law like this. Who will not support such a law is not safe for the state of Serbia and is not in the interest of citizens, neither Serbia, nor the state, nor individuals, nor anyone in that country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59296	Thank you, colleague Birmanchevic. Before I give my word to the next speaker, the remaining time of the SNS parliamentary group at this point is 11 minutes and 40 seconds. The word has been given by MP Zoran Bojanić. Here you go, colleague Bojanic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59297	Thank you, Chairman. Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues, I am known to be short, fast and expeditiontic. I have a feeling, unlike those who have a phobia when they see you, but I think they have this phobia because they appreciate you and your work, and they can't tell you because the results are behind you. I have the pleasure of seeing you and your associates, because I know we're going to do something, that we're going to create something. I say that as, first of all, an MP from the King, from a city that was dead and clinical, however you wish. It is a pleasure to see you at the opening of the airport "Ladjevci", to see you on Voćar's meadows, where these apartments are just being built, it is a pleasure to see you on Dosite Street, where water regeneration is being done, and you know when there was an earthquake in Kraljev, everyone knows well, in 2010, it is a pleasure to go to City Administration and to see that a project of the Moravia Corridor was put in place three days ago, i.e. a spatial plan of public insight, it is my pleasure to go where we used to stand and watch where the work at the pool will start, but it will start, and it is my pleasure to build the athletic stadium that everyone is attacking, it is being built and working and it will be the only athletic, dedicated athletic athletic athletic stadium in Serbia. I'll finish. We're late, there's been unexpected work, there's everything and everything. It is my pleasure to build a football stadium in the King. Unfortunately, we don't have a first-seller, but we will when we have conditions. Isn't that what it says about the results of this ministry, isn't that what it says about what Alexander Vukic's vision was in 2012? Isn't he talking about the work of this parliamentary majority of ours, the work of the government? So we look to the future, we have a vision. counterpart Bana Jovanovic said much more about the bill to address the housing security issue, as a Royal. He said everything about the location, he even gave away some military secrets, as far as I could see, all units. I'll just say that it's a phenomenal location, that it's a location for the future, that there's going to be a big "outlet" and "ritle park" that's nearby and schools, that's close to our monastery. The wire is about two or three kilometers away. So it's an extraordinary place that's five minutes from downtown. What do you say, since there's a lot of speakers and a little time, about the second bill? I'll just say it's a great thing and I'm glad that an agreement has been reached with the World Bank on $40 million, I think it's dollars to solve the problem at all our border crossings. If God gives, we have such a solution as it will be toward Macedonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59298	Thank you, colleague Bojanic. The word is made by MP Branimir Rancic. Here you go, colleague Rancic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59299	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, Mrs Mihajlovic, respected guests from the ministry, respected Members of the People's Parliaments, when we talk today about the bill on amendments and additions to the Law on special conditions for the implementation of the housing project for members of the Security Forces, we must first define national security. National security policy represents part of a state policy aimed at protecting the state from anything that could endanger its survival, sovereignty, fundamental institutions, in one word, vital interests. Given the importance and responsibility of security forces, it is necessary that security forces who have failed to resolve their housing issue permanently for decades are systematically resolved by amending and supplementing the applicable law. The Commission for the Coordination of Activities in the Construction of Apartments for Security Service Members was educated on 04 October 2018. Such and similar solutions have been approached earlier than the 2Belgrade water project," which is according to its legal nature, Lex specialis, compared to other laws, as this project is of importance to the national security of the Republic of Serbia. I really can't help but feel that one part of Belgrade's citizens is unhappy with building "Belgrade on Water". I had a chance to walk that Sava promenade and I saw there were no rats, no needles, no barges. In 2011, US company Klin Ert Kepital bought for 1.5m euros the land of former "Buban Heroes" barracks in Nis, and a cornerstone for the luxury apartment complex "Novi Nis", meaning that's one pandan to New Belgrade, was laid in the spring of 2016. The work on this project has been speeded up by the first two buildings "Oneteen" and "Twelve" for the Ministry of Defence in December 2018, with a total square of 7,600 square meters, of the planned 21,000 meters in the project "Novi Nis". In 2019, it started with the construction of three other residential building "Bahus" designs, a total square of 5,200 square meters. The US company invested in the project in 2019, 10m euros, while the value of the total investment will exceed 140m euros. But what is important, and that should be pointed out, will be one complex unique to our region, because it will build a retail building, a business space, a fun part, a hotel, an educational and medical facility. When it is completed in 2025 and 2026, it will be one mixed-purpose project in Southeast Europe of a total area of 220,000 square meters. Now I'm going to show you two pictures. This is a picture of how the new Nis started to build, you see, here are two buildings 11 and 12, and this is what a new Nis should look like when it's over. I mean, really an impressive picture, if the camera can show it, like I said, "Belgrade on Water". There's just one more thing to say about the end. In this regard, it should be pointed out that the city of Nis is among the local self-governments ahead of the number and quality of open data, as stated in the Republic Office for Information Technologies and Electronic Administration. Open data can be used and given the opportunity to be efficient in the work and spatial and urban plans used in construction. The Open Data portal shows a table from 34 areas in Nis jurisdiction that Nis is the champion in the opening of data among local self-governments in Serbia also confirmed Marija Kujačić from the Office for Information Technologies and Electronic Administration. Open data can be used most in construction, i.e. in investment and other actions. The "Open, Create" project programme as part of the "Open Data, Open Options" project is an integral part of this exhibition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59300	Thank you, colleague Rancic. The word has the People's Messenger Natasha St. Jovanovic. The remaining time is three minutes. Please sign in. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59301	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister with Associates, fellow MPs, this has been a long and hard day. In the end, I can say that it always makes me happy when Minister Mihajlovic comes to the Assembly, because it means that he starts something new, capitalistic. Either it's the roads or it's the tracks, this time it's the apartments. We are really looking forward to this success, because it is not only the success of Minister Mihajlovic, our government, but also the success of all of us. As for the times that have passed, it will never return, but what matters now is that the state cares about the people who are and who continue to care about it. Most of the apartments are started and will be completed in 2020, some in 2021, but it is important that most families will get the first apartment and can have a VAT refund. This is a really big project that employs domestic economy and also provides a basic existence for people who are very important to the country, and some have given their lives to give their families and heirs the right to these apartments. The apartments are about 55 square meters, from the garage to the three-bedroom apartments, and most will be one-and-a-half rooms. In the end, I can say that without peace, security and security, there is no basis for the country's overall progress. We're talking about people whose job it is to provide it to the citizens of Serbia. The Serbian President Alexander Vukic's initiative is to provide these people with a roof over their heads and that's nothing luxurious, but it's normal in the 21st century that anyone who works hard has the right to live a normal life. Many criticise, again without a proposal, I also tell them as one conclusion at the end of this long day -- a gram of action is worth more than a ton of theory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59302	The word has the People's MP, Zvonimir Djokic. You've got 20 seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59303	Thank you, Chairman. The two most important newspapers that adopt this Bill on Amendments to Laws that we have already passed before are the following, which extends the circle of those who will have the right to buy an apartment that will be built under favourable conditions and other conditions and I think it is fully justified and the SNS, as seen from the discussion, is that all fighters, members of the House of Firefighters, the War but also the Peacetime Military Disabilities have that right. The second thing is that the priority is regulated, who will have the right to buy those apartments on the territory of Belgrade City. It will primarily be able to be those who are employed and those who have the place of residence as retired, etc., on the territory of the City of Belgrade, which I think is just. The others will be able to do it, but not in priority. Thank you. For now, that's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59304	Thank you, colleague Djokic. Now that the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered, or there is no time left, for a word before the conclusion of the joint principle and uniform search, I ask whether the Presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used their right under Article 96 want the word. Rules of Procedure? The People's Messenger George Komlensky has the word. Here you go, colleague Komlenski.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59305	Thank you, Chairman. Comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Madam Minister with my associates, my colleagues in today's debate truly well-analyzed all the positive effects this law should have. I, absolutely, have nothing to add. I just want to say with real satisfaction that the MP group of the Socialist-National Peasant Party-United Peasants Party Movement in the voting day will also support this law most for this reason, because this law is another piece of evidence that since 2012 we have been fighting together for the benefit of Serbia's citizens, by raising economic stability absolutely in one balanced, fair and extremely correct way we have taken care of all those structures of the population that deserve due attention. A special thing that I have to focus on, although almost all my colleagues have said it, is a great pleasure for me to compete with those who, in addition to those who could as members of the security forces, can compete for these apartments, after the adoption of this law can be done by fighters, families of fallen fighters, wartime military people and peacetime military people with disabilities. So, all those who are pushed into the seal by 2012, treated as if they do not exist today with the help of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, come to the place where they deserve to come, that what they have done for the Republic of Serbia is truly appreciated, respected and respected. I also thank them from here for their patience to wait for this moment, knowing that the Republic of Serbia is taking care of all members of the security force, as well as those who gave their lives or gave part of their body or participated in the struggles to preserve Serbia's freedom. What I'm sorry, I'm sorry that Obrenovac is not on the list, right now, of those cities that have the privilege of building these apartments, but I will take another chance to remind you that the barracks in Obrenovac would be an ideal position for apartments near the Sava River, with all the infrastructure, and deserves absolutely to be considered and reassessed by its current intentions, because this purpose would indeed be something that the Obrenovac and those who would get apartments in this way would mean a lot. Thank you, and we will always support these laws unreservedly.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59306	Thank you, colleague Komlenski. The word is given by MP Branimir Jovanovic. Here you go, colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59307	Thank you, Chairman. My colleagues Jelenkovic and Zivkovic spoke today about the importance of building apartments for security forces. What I failed to say in my presentation this morning is that, in addition to the construction of these apartments is important for the members of the security forces, because in this way it will solve housing issues, which are important for fighters, families of fallen fighters and military people, this building of apartments is very important for cities and municipalities on whose territory these apartments are built. Again, I must return to my city, to the King, and note that the city has proposed one plot at five and a half hectares, which is only two kilometers away, but still not attractive enough and will only be attractive when apartments are built for members of the security forces, because therefore the city's interest will be to invest further in that infrastructure, that they may build kindergartens, infirmarys and all necessary accompanying infrastructures for the very construction of these apartments in that space. Also last year, there were some doubts about local self-government, how they will react in this situation, when apartments are being built on their territories, but Nis and Vranje have also shown by investors that local self-government have taken this issue seriously and that is why it is in these areas that apartments are being built at a further stage. Also, I say once again that it is of great importance for both Serbia and northern Macedonia to establish a common border crossing, but it is only the result of a good policy led by our leadership and evidence that, with an agreement and a quality conversation with neighbours, we can find the best solutions, because definitely one common and united border crossing will especially mean to tourists from Serbia, who travel to the Greek sea, but also to Macedonian citizens who travel through Serbia to EU countries. These are mostly two more reasons why SDPS will support these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59308	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go, colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59309	I thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister, I will once again, this time as an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group, point out an unequivocally clear position, which today is highly professionally, extremely well-founded by our fellow MP Stefana Miladinovic. In any case, we are handling one rule, and that is the rule that what the authorised representative of the parliamentary group says is the position of the parliamentary group, and that is also the personification of the party's position. The Socialist Party of Serbia supports you, supports all your efforts, which you have made and the energy you have invested throughout your work in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. And as long as we work together in the government of the Republic of Serbia with commitment, energy and consistency, we will do much. We will do a lot for Serbia, for the citizens of Serbia, and most importantly, it is most important that with mutual respect and respect, and I will repeat this once again, with mutual respect and respect, we can achieve all objectives. We have shown and proved this, on the one hand, a great effort to make the Republic of Serbia respected, respected by its representatives of the government, both with its citizens who support and in the international community, who finally see Serbia as a respectable state, a factor of peace and stability in the region. The Socialist Party of Serbia is proud of its president, Ivica Dacic, who has done much to achieve this particular goal of international respect for the Republic of Serbia. Maltene quarreled with half the world, had the courage to tell everyone what Serbia should say, which is that Serbia will neither be humiliated nor humiliated, nor will it allow anyone to humiliate it. The SPS also values and respects and respects what the president of the state and the president of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic, is doing. Given that Serbia has been reborn in the last six, seven years, given everything that has been achieved so far, no one has achieved, the SPS can greatly appreciate it, respect and respect it and share the responsibilities and values set in this government. Dear Minister, we certainly won't be able to identify with those who aren't here. They were supposed to be here on my right, to be here with us and share responsibility for the law and for this work in this House. We're not going to be able to identify ourselves with them and the part where they get their respect. In contrast, we do not go to the windows, nor do we walk to the boulevards. We do our job dedicatedly, and we will continue to do it. What is our obligation, as long as we are accepted as a correct associate and a correct coalition partner is to share the burden of responsibility, to share the burden of responsibility for everything not only being done here, but what is done in general and at the level of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and at the level of the locals and wherever we are together and where we are meant to be together, until I repeat, and you will not resent me for repeating it, there is mutual respect and respect. When it comes to your law, as well as the laws so far, you know very well that we have always set ourselves in a pragmatic way, as we do today. What Stefana Miladinovic did and distinguished colleague Vesna Ivkovic could only be assessed as a contribution to the quality of the work of this Assembly and a very well-intentioned initiative to improve the quality of the law. I think that's how you accepted it, understood it, and respected it. A different SPS can't and will never work. On our part, you'll never hear anything that would mean vocal primitiveism, vocal vulgarity. That's not an SPS feature. And by that, fortunately for us, we recognize the citizens of Serbia and by that we share your values. I will briefly commit myself once again only to what my colleagues have pointed out, which is that this law has contributed much, much to those who need to be paid attention, but indeed to the attention of those who have been victims or sacrificed themselves for the interventions of this country, our citizens, that through this obligation we are paying attention in some way, that those who expect it from the state get satisfaction, and that they have just received a bill that we are discussing today and that the SPS and its MPs will certainly vote in the voting day. Not only this law, but all the laws that you have laid before the Assembly here, had exactly the same treatment from the SPS MPs. Where we felt there was something to improve, we honestly told you. Where there's something to affirm, and we've got maximum affirmation. And what is still very important, the SPS did not hide from the public, did not hide from the public or in the joint operation with you. On the contrary, everything that should have been made public and transparent, which the citizens should have known, the SPS also participated its MPs. I am not saying this as an alibi in front of anyone, I am not saying this as an excuse for anything, because we have no reason for neither an alibi nor an excuse, but we also have reason to say that together with you we have influenced citizens to be informed of everything that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is doing and what is happening in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Many times lately, without the intention of having anything I say today, I will point out the fact that our chairman of the SPS parliamentary group and the vice president of this assembly has been here at a press conference, supporting the Government of the Republic of Serbia, supporting the President of the Republic of Serbia and affirming all the goals that have been achieved and what have reached the results of this government in which the SPS has been participated, and these objectives are visible and no one can doubt them, and they are not alone and they will certainly be yet. I'm sure, no matter how much I take the responsibility to say it on behalf of the SPS, we'll keep doing it together. In the end, I just want to say a few more sentences, when it comes to those parts, those laws that citizens need to recognize as something that's humane. It's humane that you've found the right ways, the right opportunities in accordance with the law, especially where it's in a practical sense most effective, to provide conditions for both construction and formation of cadastrian parcels and for the formation of land for the regular use of objects on which to build objects for the purposes of which we are obliged to protect them, because so far they obviously didn't have that type and degree of protection. Don't mind what this discussion of mine comes after a debate that I don't think was necessary. It was not necessary because I believe that there is no need for such a debate between partners, but not just for needs, there is no reason. There is no single reason for us to have a discussion where we're going to be able to discuss some of the things that can only be experienced by antagonism. We don't want antagonism, but it's also never allowed the SPS, nor will it allow, to devalue anything, to devalue anything that the SPS selflessly gives, where it gives unreserved support and where it participates in power in a way that is both the best and the most pragmatic and the most effective. That's why I'd ask that what we had today never happen again. Instead of leading, as we have done so far, a debate that only binds to laws, that we lead it as you expect, which is that without attacking you, which you are constantly experiencing, you get continued well-intentioned suggestions. The Socialist Party of Serbia has never had this kind of criticism that would relate to a person, we have never had reflections that would in any way imply insults, we have never had anything to do with anyone from the government of the Republic of Serbia, which would mean what is far from culture and cultured behavior. I hope, therefore, that in the future, as we have done so far, we will share responsibility for the adoption of quality laws, under two, we can already guarantee you, participate in the debate as we have so far in a professional and well-founded way and, under three, dignifiedly and in principle, as we have so far, present our views. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59310	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. Before the search is concluded, the word has an authorised representative of the SNS, MP Aleksandar Markovic. Here you go, colleague Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59311	Thank you, Chairman. At the very end of the debate, which was on the bright side of the debate, and at times it went beyond what was on the agenda, I must certainly express the satisfaction that in the whole debate we have not heard a single argument against proposed legal solutions, and this is the best way to say and show that it is about amending laws that will contribute to a more functional, more efficient and efficient implementation of the project of building apartments for security forces, especially when the word, as we have said, is to extend the circle of persons covered by this bill, i.e. persons who will be able to buy an apartment on more favourable terms. As we have said, it is the fighters, whether or not, members of the home of a fallen fighter, wartime wartime disabled, peacetime military people with disabilities. We have also heard all that information about the project of building apartments for security forces so far, and that in the first phase, 8,022 apartments are foreseen, as it seems concrete in cities, as long as they have arrived with realisation, that is, construction itself and all those other parameters that directly show the seriousness of the Serbian government when it comes to this project. That's what's good. What's not good is that this session has passed without the presence of part so-called. The opposition and today have clearly shown their relationship to this subject, according to this bill, to the National Assembly, but also to the citizens of Serbia and to who knows which time they have sent a clear message that they are not interested in a single topic that is of great importance to the citizens of Serbia, and that is the most significant, I would say, but also the fundamental difference between them and us. So I would no longer owe it, but I would end my exposure as when I was finishing and the first part of my debate today, which is that this law brings benefits for those people who have given their lives to Serbia, to the state, to defend our country, who have worked and are still working to strengthen our country's security and defence capacities, and that this law sends a very clear message that we care about these people, that we care about these people, that we highly appreciate their sacrifice and their merits, that we learn in this way and younger generations and new generations that we should love our country and that the state should love them and be willing to, God forbid, if we need to, and to defend our country, and the state will know that they will reward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-23-0.u59312	Thank you. Before I conclude a unique principled debate, I would like to thank the representatives of Professor Zorana Mihajlović, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure and its associates for their participation in today's constructive and quality debate. I hope that in the same spirit we will continue during the debate on amendments. Now, according to Article 98(4). Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude a joint general and uniform search on the draft laws referred to in paragraphs 2 and 3 of the agenda. We continue our work tomorrow, so on Wednesday, July 24, 2019, starting at 10:00 p.m. Thank you.
