ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58737	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the 14th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 80 peoples. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 87 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that we have opportunities and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. We continue the search in detail on the 3rd item of the agenda - Proposal for a law on trade. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that today the sittings are invited to attend by Zoran Djordjevic, Minister of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs, and his associates. National MP Tomislav Ljubenovic submitted to the 48th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is Olivera Pesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58738	I thank the chairman. The amendment promoter shall request that Article 48(1) delete point 8. Article 48(1) deletes point 8. Article 48 defines the powers of the market inspector and those powers are conferred in this Article from points 1 to 13 with the authority of the market inspector in point 1 to examine the business space, point 2 to make an insight into the accounts, point 3 to identify persons carrying out commercial activity, etc. The authorities of the inspectors were compared to the point 8 in which it was defined in point 8. the powers of the market inspector have been defined to collect the data relevant to the subject of supervision. A colleague has just proposed that this point 8. I do not consider that this point 8 under Article 48 should be deleted for the simple reason that it is the general authority of the inspector in the Inspectors Act. What's good, and what's about the powers of a market inspector is new authority, so-called. the authority to carry out a covert purchase, where the inspector may, without having been authorised to make a purchase at a specific facility, if he considers or has any indication that it is an unregistered trade. I believe that by introducing one of these new powers, it will greatly contribute to reducing the size of the gray economy, and therefore I believe that this one basic authority of the inspector should not be deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58739	Thank you. Members of the 48th amendment were submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? The word has Professor Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58740	Here, I really support this proposal from the government, and I think the amendment is wrong. However, let me say that this law contributes to the overall modernisation of the Republic of Serbia, especially in the area of trade. However, when it comes to the former regime's party, they did not exactly adhere to certain legislation, not only them, but also their trade minister, Milosavljevic, who was arrested. Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, I must tell you that last night on the 380-degree show, I was surprised by the performances of academics Dusan Teodorovic in the people of the famous tremor. Why are you shaking your head? Because even last night when he mentioned the President of the Republic of Alexander Vukic, he was shaking his head like this for at least 360 minutes, about 180 times he said his name in a negative sense. What is surprising, however, is that the university professor and even more academics are calling MPs in the republican Assembly of Primitives. You heard last night. I can even say that he tells me that I'm a recipient, but that this high-rise home says that the barn is not only a professor, but not a citizen of the Republic of Serbia, who at least has little patriotic feelings and loves his National Assembly, as an institution and this high home. You heard in 380 minutes last night, neither he nor the journalist Stupar, who also said that we were a barn, and neither Professor Milivojevic made any criticism at the expense of the work of the government of the Republic of Serbia, nor at the expense of the ruling party, but they were the only ones who had the hatred of the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic. Well, why didn't they bring out the work programme for the future last night? What isn't competing with us in ideas, in work, in responsibility, in criticism, in the existing state, etc.? But it doesn't occur to them that they'll do it. Once again, I say, it is surprising that an academic is speaking at the expense of his Assembly, I hope that his National Assembly is also the Republic of Serbia. I say once again, you can say that I am cattle, but you can't tell this high house that it's a barn, because it's talking about citizens, it's not telling us, it's telling citizens because this is the home of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, this is a legislative body, this is an institution. I'm shocked when I listened to his statements last night, and a reporter named Stupar said we were primitives. Well, yes, we are, but never in this home since the ruling party have we heard insults like those they support last night. Only one piece of information, Zoran Zivkovic called a farmer in an attempt, in a year 56 times insulted SNS MPs, starting with being primitives, primates, and to the president of the National Assembly of Insults, see if you see anything possible. I have not heard that he has ever looked back on such insults neither he nor Professor Milivojevic, and especially the journalist Stupar. I'm not going to deal with them, some of them are being honored, I'm undermining them once again, saying that this people's home is a barn, and that we're animals, but I can't tell the legislative body of the Republic of Serbia, because that shows their patriotic relationship with this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58741	Thank you, Mr. Atlagic. National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to the 51st amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58742	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, I have submitted an amendment to Article 51. The proposal for a trade law, these amendments, I asked for the removal of that member for the reason that all municipal inspectors must act solely by law. The envisaged legal solution would put us in an absurd situation if the law were broken by those who needed to protect it. Well, I guess the aim of the communal inspectors is to protect, not break the law. Here, we recently brought amendments to the Law on the Communist Militia, which in the most direct way is based on municipal inspectors, but I don't think it's going to make a move in this area. Cleaning our streets and sidewalks from all merchants and all forms of trade can improve hygiene and send a nicer picture, but that doesn't solve the problem in this area closely. Our main problem is monopolies and in a store where import lobbys are the most fronted. The purpose of import lobbies is not to protect the domestic market by providing it with certain types of goods. Their goal is to make as much money as possible, and this is sometimes disastrously reflected in domestic merchants and domestic producers. The government must therefore take more care of domestic traders and domestic producers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58743	Thank you, Mr. Stojanović. The word is according to the amendment, Professor Dr Ljubisa Stojmirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58744	My colleagues and colleagues, I can agree with the amendment's proposal that everyone must work in accordance with the law, that everyone is obliged to do what they do, do it in a quality way and be in the interest of the citizens of Serbia, but the opposite of his amendment to these views is to delete the whole member. The fact that today, colleagues from the SRS are proposing a large number of amendments where they are asking for something to be deleted reminds me of a colleague of Pavicevic who was, I guess, in his previous assembly. I can't stand for it, to accept this amendment. At the same time, I owe my colleague Philip an apology, and at one of the last sessions, I quoted a verse, a folk song, and I said it was the lyrics of a folk author. I didn't know those were our colleague Filip Stojanovic's lyrics. I apologize to him now. I hope I don't make any more mistakes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58745	Thank you, Mr Stojmirovic. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58746	There is no need for fellow Stojmirovic to apologize to Filip Stojanovic for such fine lyrics, but I did not answer for it, just to explain. I think it's really high time to understand what it means when an amendment proposes to delete a member or an attitude. If the SRS parliamentary group, or any other party, considers that a member should not exist in the law, that a position should not exist within a member, there is no other way of expressing it than by proposing to delete it. We sometimes also have a situation to propose to delete all members, this is the only way the Rules of Procedure allows us, the only way to express our position that we think that a certain law should not exist at all in legal traffic in Serbia and we cannot possibly show it otherwise than by proposing that we delete all members and the one about publication in the "Official Messenger". So I'm just asking you not to question the well-meaning nature of our amendments in any way. We disagree with the MPs of the government, we disagree with the government, it's perfectly normal. Through our amendments and in this way we show our relationship to a certain law and to a certain member of the law and to a certain position in a member of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58747	Thank you, colleague Radeta. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 51st amendment. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go, colleague Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58748	Thank you, your duchess. So, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is about inspectors, there are communal inspectors, there are various shops. Imagine when you break the political market, imagine when someone owns the media market and commercials, when 500m euros are earned. Imagine when someone buys DS when they buy the left hand of Serbia. Imagine when someone buys the Green Party, I guess, because they cut off those canvass, so it qualified them. Imagine when someone buys without any supervision of the political party Dveri, imagine when someone buys Bosko Ljotić and turns him into Boška Zlatić. The political market is being broken and this can be dangerous for parliamentaryism. You can't see it on "N1", unless you're in Luxembourg. So if you want to sue that television she can be sued. She certainly won't announce that during the party of the former regime, and this fellow Rancic, I think he spoke of selling Serbia's national interests to KIM, because we paid consulting services during the rule of the former regime, the state of Serbia signed two agreements on consulting services, through Mirko Stefanovic, Uncle Borko Stefanovic and through Vuk Jeremic, through which we almost lost KIM of four million and zero US dollars. What inspection is to be carried out in order for such punishments to be issued? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58749	Thank you, Mr. Ristichevich. The word is Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58750	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Here, we continue to discuss in detail the proposal for a law on trade, the solutions the government advocates to improve trade, we talk about what and how we do and how we can do much better than the period until 2012, when they only thought about their own pockets, and we, unlike them, think about the citizens. Some who have never been in power today, according to the campaign they conduct daily, will never be in power, I mean Boška Obradovica. However, he used the government very well to spend state money, just like Dragan Gilas, all the media are talking about it, but he never denied it or explained it exactly as Dragan Gilas, and DSS and DS funded it. He financed money from Kolubara, money from the diaspora ministry, means citizens' money. In 2004, it was such a situation that Kolubara had a loss of 10 billion dinars, but it was not an obstacle to paying more than 140 million to various associations, including the Two, which were irrevocably given 4.2 million dinars. This was continued in 2007, 2008, 2009 and 2010. Now, here's my answer to the question why Bosko Obradovic listens blindly to Gilas and raises the issue of Interior Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic's diploma, just to draw attention from various affairs, from Dragan Djilas' affair, from Bosko Obradovic's affair. So as not to talk about it, to draw attention from the boastful abuses and spending of money on Serbian citizens. Now we can expect maybe some other topic, maybe Nebojsa Stefanovic will be sought now and the high school testimonies or the primary school, because we saw that the university showed evidence, that he studied, that Nebojsa Stefanovic attended school, that he took exams, and even when he raised his degree. So for nothing, Bosko Obradovic was showing his diploma, so he just turned out to be funny but better to look funny than to talk about his affairs in. So it's easier for them to invent, to spin, to discredit government members in any way, than to discuss here with us issues that are important to Serbia and the citizens, which are exactly the laws that we are making. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58751	Thank you, colleague Žarić Kovacevic. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 55th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58752	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, a member of the 55th Law, speak of the conditions and the time period for the temporary closure of a trading facility. I asked my amendment for this matter to be regulated in a different way than that provided for by the law, simply because it says in law that the temporary closure of a commercial facility can be done for up to six months. Of course, we don't mind that those who have broken certain rules, certain norms and brought sanctions, but if you close someone's trading facility for six months, that basically means, in most cases, permanent closure. I asked the amendment to close the facility until the moment the irregularities were removed, which is why the facility was closed. In fact, some times it happens that, for purely trivial reasons, there is a closure of an object, and you know, market inspectors are people, and they judge against someone, not only that justice, but also some personal sympathy, or should I say, some other things. If you close a shopping facility in a tourist resort during the tourist season, it is certain that the facility will be so affected that it will never be able to recover again. So, I think we should accept this amendment. So, the time period for the temporary closure of a trading facility to regulate so that by the time the irregularities are removed, it's closed, not for a six-month period.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58753	Thank you, Mr. Saviæ. The word is by Prof. Dr. Ljubisa Stojmirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58754	Dear colleagues and colleagues, and a very interesting amendment. Why? Now he reminds me of something that happens very often with us, and I've had complaints from a large number of caterers who have had this pain to shut down their facility for 10, 15, or I don't know how many days because the inspector found it in one of the workers 50, 100 or I don't know how many dinars. I am for everyone to be responsible for what they're doing, but you need to think a little bit about whether the right measure is to close the facilities. Why do I say that? Well, that's why when we close a facility, we don't just punish the owner, we punish those who are employed and their families, and eventually less money is poured into the budget. I'm saying, this is a very interesting proposal. I'm even against being banned, except in exceptional cases, to close the facility, but these situations need to be taken into account. Let them be those fines of dragons, but do not make it impossible for anyone to work. After all, even under the Constitution, it is not appropriate to prohibit someone from working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58755	Thank you, Professor Stojmirovic. The replica was reported by Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go. .
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58756	This amendment may not have been understood by Professor Stojmirovic, but it was written in another context, to specify something that could be a great danger. In the previous article, yesterday we talked about it, fellow Jojic, when it comes to the jurisdiction of market inspection, when determining irregularities, Mr. Minister, is given a deadline of up to six months to remove irregularities. Now you have a situation so it can be a two-scissor sword. Someone's going to say, "Yeah, well, there's a lot of big irregularities, so I'm just good at removing that deadline, and yesterday we were just a colleague of Radeta and I were talking about what, God forbid, something happens to someone, so just on the day it expires for six months he can't for some objective reason. It's pointless to tie something to a deadline like that. If, in the record, any of the inspectors identified any irregularity in the facility which is subject to a kind of trade, then, through the indication of precise irregularities defined by law, a time limit shall be given when it could be removed, which requires the possibility of appeal, but not indefinitely. You'll understand that six months is a long time if one of the inspectors abuses it, because someone can say - there are so many irregularities, they'll come back again, and they'll say, complete the paperwork. You know it. Most of all, I am explicitly against it, like any SRS MP, abuse in violation, that is your portfolio, the rights of employees in these retail facilities in these large systems. We talked ten years ago, when another big chain of markets took over from this second retail sale, so these women who work at the cash register, and those who pack fruit and vegetables so they don't know order or order, it's a lot of work, nobody respects the Labour Act. So, it has to be strictly respected, but don't let market inspectors, and you know in that, you've had arrests and them, it's possible that corruption and abuse of the official position and that someone is being blackmailed, and then a six-month deadline can deny someone the possibility of supporting their family.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58757	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. We're moving on to the next amendment. Before I inform you that, pursuant to Articles 27 and 87, pages 2 and 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we will work even after 18.00 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to make decisions from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 56th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, colleague Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58758	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what market inspection should enter the RTS? These cameramen here, this installation behind us works for humiliating low wages. In doing so, their leadership and selected editors are millionaires. What market inspection should enter RTS and ask Bujosevic why he does not object, why did he allow Gilasov and Šolak's unregistered pirated cross-border television to be numbered on the first and second channels, on the SBB cable system when, by law, Article 100, RTS has the exclusive right to be number one, that channels with national frequencies must be numbered before these false cross-border channels? Why doesn't that yellow Buicke object? Number two - which inspection should the inspector go in to ask why yellow buke doesn't object because domestic commercials are being illegally played on fake pirated cross-border channels, why did he allow a piece of bread to be given to him by unregistered pirated television? Furthermore, why is it that the most important events, which can only be transmitted by channels with a national frequency, are sometimes transmitted by these false cross-border channels, although they do not cover the whole market by law and do not have free access to channels by viewers who are interested in it? Why isn't he complaining? What market inspection will determine that RTS does not buy sports rights from sports event organizers and sports events, but rather buys it, trades later with Gilas, Šolak, who buys these sports rights on his United Media, the United Group, knowing that they can't carry them through their channels because they don't cover the whole market, knowing that they'll buy RTS, which they didn't want to buy first, and then at a higher price buy from Gilas and Šolak? What inspection should come to determine that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58759	Thank you, Mr. Ristichevich. He's got his word on the amendment, Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58760	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I join my fellow counterpart Risticic's initiative to establish with one extensive investigation all these machinations, malfeasances, especially when it comes to the already famous affair over the reselling of minutes suspected of the Darekt Media as Gilas's firm, to show once whether Dragan Djilas has become rich by buying suspicious minutes and seconds of advertising space, he has earned those millions for which, otherwise, he avoids giving us an answer from where he came from. When it comes to RTS's editorial policy, it is, to say the least, problematic and self-editious policy could be very much talked about. In particular, RTS stood out in some anti-Serbian hysteria in some earlier years, when DOS assumed power since 2000, and beyond. Today that picture is slightly lighter, but in no way can we say that it is satisfactory and normal, and that yellow Buicke and that yellow Olja and everything Mr. Risticevic was talking about earlier. Mr. Risticevic, I don't know if you followed that during yesterday's day on RTS there were no words about the Serbian Parliament sitting down, that the Assembly was discussing some amendments, that the Assembly was discussing some laws? That's not news for RTS long ago. I will remind you, Mr. Risticevic, that on the first day of the regular spring session this year RTS has not reported for a second. They reported various parliaments in the world. For them, it was news in their daily journal, and that the Serbian parliament had sat down, that a regular spring session had started for not a second. I have to tell you, Risticevic, one more thing. RTS published a report yesterday on parliamentary issues at yesterday's session on its site. Do you know whose parliamentary question has not been processed? A colleague of Atlagic's. The only parliamentary question not found on the RTS site is Mr Atlagic's question. Of course, some other MPs have been transferred, even some MPs who do not have two votes, who do not even know which group they belong to. Here, let's say, this Gjorge Vukadinovic. It writes nicely what the Serbian-New Serbia Rescue Movement MP Djordje Vukadinovic asked, a nice explanation, all of it, and on the parliamentary issue of MP Mark Atlagic not a word, not a word. So, it's extremely strange that these criteria for selecting the news that RTS is about to deliver, and for all these reasons, I would really like the investigation to begin and that the investigation deals in detail with all those topics that Mr. Risticevic has just initiated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58761	Thank you, colleague Markovic. You want a replica, Mr. Ristichevich? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58762	Mr. Markovicu, RTS is composed of 95% of cases and maybe 99% of honest and honest people, such as these cameramen, installers, who work relatively for small money. Why do they work for small money? I'm trying to explain it to them. They're trying to place it on viewers who, say, don't have time to watch this broadcast in the morning. It's not just you that's damaged, colleague Atlagic. I am trying to show them that Bujosevic is not robbing only them, robbing citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are paying the subscription, so that they have their fair salary earned in the larger amount. But Bujosevic thought it should be transferred to Gilas, because he can't get a cut from them, and from Gilas to reselling sports rights, he certainly can be part of it. Mr. Markovic, it's more important to him than the well-being of his employees. It wasn't a random attack on RTS. He was organized. Yellow Buke, an integral part of the Gilas-Solak-David Petreus team, wants to stay in REM, one of the main demands of the opposition is REM, remain the same state, unchanged, or if it changes, to remain in favour of Gilas and Solak again, not to exclude false cross-border channels, from preventing domestic advertising from being broadcast on pirated television, which takes the bread of these people who work in RTS. Yellow Bujke does not object that sports rights are paid by subscribers to SBB, subscribers to the Republic of Serbia, and they are resold, etc., which are sometimes broadcast on televisions that can't be seen by all. He doesn't mind, as long as he's in favor of School, Gilas, and that's for his own good. Therefore, Mr Markovic, it is good for RTS employees, but privileged editors and management should be dealt with by all inspection and competent authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58763	Thank you. National MP Zoran Despotovic submitted to the 57th amendment. Here you go, colleague Despotovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58764	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Mr. Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen, by submitting amendments to Article 57 of the proposed law, the Serbian Radical Party intervened and asked for the removal of attitude 3, with an explanation that it is unacceptable and that the measure with a six-month deadline is expressed. The public hearing noted that all interested parties had the opportunity to submit concrete proposals. I think there's more to it than that, and that's enough. And in these draft laws, as well as the Law on the Communist Militia, powers have been given to inspectors for covert purchases, not to wear uniforms. All in all, the reasons for legislative intervention stemmed primarily from the need to align with some of the solutions in other laws, and all together as a consequence of the EU directive. The proposal has been improved by a modern law, some continuity has been maintained, small upgrades have been made, which we believe is not enough for a complete new law, because it is literally repacked and systematised old law, with old institutional solutions, along with some petty precision and non-essential cosmetic changes. I must stress here that, as never before, the EU is causing a single phenomenon of our mentality, which is that we are going to encounter events, not that the events always happen in our sleep. This is how we prepare ourselves legally, harmonising and institutionalising for some perhaps future times, which we Serbian radicals would never wish for the EU. Cooperation - yes, entry - no. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58765	Thank you, colleague Despotovic. The 59th Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Here you go, Comrade Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58766	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. On the fourth day already here we see that Resolute Minister Rasim Ljajic has more obligations than to do his job, so he is not in the Assembly today, when we should discuss amendments to this law. We also have a chance to hear that all these changes that have been adopted, not only for this law but also for the past period, is to correct our situation and the conditions that the Democratic Party, the yellow enterprise, October 5, tycoons, etc. And we have a chance to see that these tycoons, too, are a yellow company, largely at large and still dealing with politics, but it seems to be more, i.e. that it is better to serve as a discreditor in the newspaper, i.e. The campaign only in newspapers, not investigative proceedings, let's see and determine who really stole what and who damaged Serbia and how much. So we had the opportunity to hear that the former finance minister and the man who signed the Stabilisation and Association Agreement for Serbia to the European Union, Bozidar Djelic, who stole over the "Meridian Bank" 11m euros, had sickened Serbia, one of the leaders of the regime. Now we could see him, if someone didn't know where he was, at the reception of President of France, Emmanuel Macron, who was recently in Belgrade. If we are not systematically fighting corruption, cosmetic changes to the law, not just the Law on Trade but anything else, it won't help us at all, if we're just going to indicate who damaged what, in the papers, television programs. If we are not determined, once and for all, and do not set an example of how people should behave in the highest state functions, there will be no translated directive ratified in parliament to help us on that path.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58767	Thank you, Mr. Seselj. He has the word, according to the amendment, Ljiljana Malusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58768	Thank you, Chairman. Honorable ministers with associates, this is about whether there should be a humanitarian fund or not, or whether goods can be transferred to other state bodies. In particular, local self-government. It's an extremely good example of practice. I'm from the Vozdovac municipality. We won in 2010, Zemun and we and when we came, it was a completely devastated municipality. So 400,000 people were fired in 2008. Mass of people, it's not 400,000, it's a million people with no means to live. We can't have a social work center covering the needs of that people who are out of a job. Dad, most people started coming to the Vozdovac municipality. About the fifth, tenth day since we entered, since we've established Go Vozhdovac has created or units of local self-government, founded a humanitarian fund, headed by me. That team started working right away. We've taken care of a lot of people. How? Just because the company, the consumers who had the goods, didn't know what to do with it because it was seized, asked, received, based on the paperwork, of course, because every third, fifth day since then was an inspection. There's no embezzlement, but we helped people. It's very important that there's a charity fund, something like that should never be abolished, and all people who have extra goods, whose property was seized or whatever, should be given to local self-government units. It's completely transparent that we're helping people. We then helped a large number of citizens. There were clothes, shoes, food, powders, oils, sugar, everything, the elemental conditions of life. This amendment is therefore ‘expunged’. I hope that every local self-government that has yet to realize that it should help, because the social work center can't handle so many objects, that it helps. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58769	Thank you, Mrs. Malusic. On Article 59 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58770	This Article shall apply from 1 January 2018. Who's going to determine if it's a legitimate sale? Is it even possible to sell or does it have to be destroyed? We have suggested that this attitude be erased because of this confusion. We are told in the government that they cannot accept the amendment for the reasons it writes, which the minister in charge of trade operations will regulate the destruction of goods and prevent abuse. This response from the ministry, or government, as far as we're concerned, is controversial by two basics. First of all, what if the minister tells you - well, I'm not going to bring in a sublegal act, as he says - that's why I won't come to the Assembly? So Rasim Ljajic is obviously a minister who has not respected the work that he is doing, which is why he is not here today in the National Assembly, but actually on the fourth day, and this is already the second round of law from his jurisdiction since he was gone. So he doesn't want to come face-to-face with the MPs, he's afraid of criticizing the SRS MPs, rightly, but he shouldn't, rightly, be afraid, but he has no right not to come here to hear that criticism. So, as he told you – go, Gjorgevic, I will not go to the Assembly, so he can say – let him do another sublegal act, I will not. On the other hand, imagine Rasim Ljajic will bring in sublegal acts and he will arrange which goods should be destroyed, which should be sold. Whenever I hear something like this, I get chills, I think about drugs.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58771	The word has Dr. Mihailo Jokic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58772	I wanted, gentlemen, to say something about this corruption and everything that's been happening to us since 2000. Why don't we manage to bring those who made this carambole, who committed this huge crime, to court? You know that in 2008, a reform of the destruction of the judiciary was carried out. That's what that Malovic girl did. I don't know her name. However, they continued in 2011 and destroyed the institution of the investigative judge. The investigative judge is like an institution... And it's all now been given to the public prosecutor, and the DA can't get through the investigation, to file charges, to assess, etc. He received a judge for a previous trial that, on the one hand, limits the public prosecutor's rights. That's why the whole procedure is slowed down. I'm just saying America forced it on us. It was done in 2011. In Europe, it's done, so there's an investigative judge, there's a prosecutor, and the procedure is much faster, much simpler and much more effective. It was purposely done and I think it must be considered to return the institution of the investigative judge in order for these procedures to be much faster, much more effective than they used to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58773	Thank you, colleague Yokic. The word of the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophet of Radeth, has the right to replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58774	All that Jokic said was absolutely right and we Serbian radicals said it at the time when this tribunal was introduced, we say so. The privatisation of the judiciary has been introduced in Serbia and, of course, it is not necessary to consider, but rather, one right reform of the judiciary from a network of courts to the return of a normal investigation. This prosecution investigation, it's proven, it hasn't produced results, it's not going to give, and we still have more than that. We think we need to get rid of these special forces. These are special courts for organized crime, or the Supreme Court, and war crimes departments, etc. These are all sources of corruption. With that intention, they were formed. We've been saying that you have a judge with the same years of internships, this one's doing the guilt in someone, to say, a normal procedure, this one's doing the guilt in that organized crime, and this one who does normally has a salary of 100,000, and this one who works in organized crime has a salary of 400,000 dinars and is still driven by an official car, they keep it, etc. For what? The normal justice system that we had should be returned, and thus it will be impossible for the judiciary to be freed from the influence of the executive government, so the legal certainty in the state of Serbia will rise to some higher level, thus making it impossible for what was at the time Vladan Batic, when he was a God and a beating, so he said by some decree, I do not know that a prison sentence of 40 years can be imposed on someone who committed allegedly a criminal act at a time when such punishment was not generally provided. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58775	Thank you, colleague Radeta. The word is Alexander Martinovic, right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58776	I do not agree with what Mrs Radeta said that there is a tribunalisation of the judiciary in Serbia. Mrs. Radeta probably meant the institute of this ad hoc UN tribunal. The problem with The Hague tribunal, in addition to the fact that many lawyers feel that it was not established in accordance with the UN Charter, or that it was founded by an unauthorized body, was that it was an institution that had two bodies in its composition. On the one hand, the tribunal is a court, and on the other hand, the tribunal is the prosecutor's office, and on the third hand, the UN tribunal had its own Secretariat. Practically, three or two judicial functions and one administrative office were concentrated in an authority called the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia. We don't have such institutions in Serbia. So in Serbia, the court is separate from the prosecution, in Serbia one authority cannot also accuse you of the same authority to judge you, as was the case in The Hague tribunal. So Serbia separates the prosecution's functions, i.e. criminal prosecution functions, from the post of trial. As for the prosecutor's investigation that Jokic spoke of and spoke of by Mrs Radeta, we can agree or disagree on whether it was a good institute or not, but that there is a prosecutorial investigation in Serbia does not in any way turn the Serbian judiciary into some kind of tribunal, and especially not in the tribunal as it existed in The Hague, or as it existed until recently. Now they've changed his name into a mechanism. In any case, we did not have such institutions, nor do we have in Serbia today.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58777	Thank you. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58778	The UN tribunal's problem is all what a colleague said, and that is true, but it is an even bigger problem that it is a political court and as such founded and thus acted, and it is exclusively anti-Serbian so-called. Court. I think the most hated institution in Serbia today, to be surveyed by citizens, would be The Hague tribunal. It would only be supported by this initiative of young people, women in black, this journalist "Today", that Teodorovic and the rest of the scum. So no one who has any patriotic in them will have anything nice to say about the UN tribunal, and God does not tell me about those who extradited Serbs to The Hague tribunal. Vojislav Kostunica and his authority were ahead of it. Most Serbs reportedly went voluntarily to The Hague tribunal at a time when he was Prime Minister, and the biggest edition of Serbian national interests occurred when Boris Tadic arrested Ratko Mladic, Radovan Karadzic, Stojan Zupljanin, Goran Hadzic and Tolimir. So all of our traitors of Serbian national interests and the state of Serbia used the Law on Co-operation with The Hague tribunal and caused the biggest problems to Serbia and the Serbian people, from what Boris Tadic did, this has also come up with what we are fighting today, which is the claim of these freaks, scum, traitors, I would use the worst terms for all of them, who today say that genocide happened in Srebrenica. It's not. Come on, let's change the Criminal Code most quickly and declare it a felony, that kind of statement.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58779	Thank you. Right on line, Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58780	What I want to say is to remind the citizens of Serbia that two days ago, Justice Minister Nela Kuburovic had an excellent performance at the UN and there she clearly expressed Serbia's position on co-operation with that so-called. The mechanism, which is a legal follower, that is, the successor of the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia, has made it clear there are several important facts. The first thing is that the Republic of Serbia cannot be conditioned on its path to the EU by praying to Serbia for insufficient co-operation with the mechanism. On the other hand, Mrs Kuburovic, in front of the UN, at the world's highest forum, denied a monstrous lie called by those who bombed us in 1999, which is that during March and April 1999, the Army of Yugoslavia and the MUP of the Republic of Serbia were with some so-called. Para-military formations have expelled more than 800,000 Albanians with KIM. You all remember that it was a lie that revolved throughout the period of NATO aggression, that the regime in Belgrade expelled more than 800,000 Albanians from KIM, that humanitarian disaster was taking place in KIM, and that is why NATO's aggression occurred in the first place. Why am I saying this? I am saying this because in Serbia today there are people like Vuk Jeremic, who, as foreign minister in January of that year, claimed that NATO aggression was justified, because the regime of Slobodan Milosevic committed crimes on KIM, including the persecution of Albanians, and that it was necessary for NATO to be involved in the resolution of this humanitarian disaster, that in this war that was completely unequal, and that certain war theorists called "single-sided technological massacre", because they were not nearly classical war, it was a massacre of several thousand altitudes bombed us 78 days and nights. So, he claimed that in the tone of an irregular war, Milosevic lost, that because we lost that war, Milosevic had to withdraw his troops from KIM and that there was nothing controversial about NATO aggression, as far as he was concerned. It's the same Wolf Jeremic, who's giving us lessons today about how I'm supposed to defend KIM and accuse Alexander Vukic and SNS that we're gonna be the ones who, right here these days, are about to sell KIM.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58781	Thank you. The faithful Radeta is entitled to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58782	It is true that Minister Nela Kuburovic made a great speech in the sense that, indeed, as a true minister and patriot, she represented Serbia in the UN Security Council, but what is not good is the fact that our media did not pay enough attention to that speech, and they paid even less attention to the speech that is extremely important to us, which is the Russian representative's speech in the UN Security Council. It is our pain that somehow the media is not ready to deal with such things, they are more interested in some gossip, some for the country less important things. As for the mention of Vuk Jeremic and these, the story that Serbia needs to be bombed because of Milosevic, it began with Djindjic at a time when Djindjic "Spigl" made a statement that Serbia should be bombed and it is the only way to remove Slobodan Milosevic from power. This lasts until today you know, but very soon these Western friends, the aggressors who destroyed, killed our people, destroyed Serbia, they showed them very quickly that it wasn't this criminal NATO aggression because of Slobodan Milosevic, the bond because of Serbia. This NATO aggression goes on today, no longer thank God with bombs, but all that they do to us, everything they do to the state and the current regime, all those who should be sitting here, all of them are more or less under the control of these NATO services, with their money, with their brains in their heads. The NATO aggression, through them, continues to exist in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58783	Thank you, colleague Radeta. Mr. Jovanovic reported after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58784	We can say more, but I'm not going to replicate, of course. Given what my predecessors have said, all I have to do is rely on one fact that isn't stated, and it's very important. We talked about the International Criminal Tribunal for War Crimes, allegedly committed in Serbia's territory, specifically Kosovo. Several questions are raised that point to the absolute legal unfounded establishment of the tribunal. There is no relevant international document on the basis of which such a tribunal could be established, which means that it was established absolutely illegally. There is not even a decision of the competent authorities and bodies that imply that this and such a tribunal can and can be established. Coli Martinovic called for inability and two-degree and decision-making in the same degree and a half, let's say, criminal charges or charges that various prosecutors conducted, and at the same time in complaints. The second-degree council can't be bigger than the same court, it can only be directly higher court. In a particular case, there was no such thing. Furthermore, what is very important should highlight the political background of the tribunal's establishment. It was not the tribunal founded to judge fairly and legally the crimes that really existed, but rather to cover up political engagement and political influence so that a country and its people, most of the Serbian people, would literally break down, because Slobodan Milosevic was the goal with one single reason for Serbia to be brought into a subjugated position. And that goal of our happiness, and with the courage of all those who have fought against this monstrous goal, has not been achieved. These are facts that no one can question, and they can't argue. What Honorable counterpart Jokic pointed out is places to be viewed from the aspect of the lay interpretation of the prosecution, however, I must point to something very important. Public prosecution investigations are based on amended provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which we adopted. The basic reason, the basic motive, the basic initiative to pass such a law is a more effective investigation in order to shorten the time of communication between the judge who conducted the investigation or the investigating judge on the one hand and the prosecution on the other. Why? Because the prosecutor now has a common procedure in his hands, which means that he collects evidence and assesses evidence and makes an order to conduct a public prosecutor's investigation, and to prepare complete evidence for the main investigation, i.e. to file an appropriate indictment or indictment or indictment and to prosecute the perpetrators within a very short period of time. I can agree that the degree of efficiency is not the one that we would like to have and which we should have, but that is more reason for the dissatisfaction of citizens when it comes to personal solutions. Do we have adequate people who do this job, because the law is good, because everything that's now prescribed as the prosecution's jurisdiction is good, it's just a question of whether it's working well? If not done well, then it is logical that the degree of efficiency we want to achieve cannot be achieved in order for citizens to have one full legal certainty and be safe on the other hand, that all perpetrators of criminal offences will be processed rule, justly and legally punished. Of course, according to the evidence, and that absolutely no impact on the judiciary, in that sense, politics cannot have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58785	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. The right to replica has Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58786	Only one small intervention related to what the esteemed counterpart Jovanovic said. The problem with The Hague tribunal was that it was an authority that joined two judicial functions, prosecutors and court, or judges. It's the organ that accused you and it's the organ that tried you. The Hague tribunal did not even raise the question of the classical two-stage, in the sense that the complaint was decided by the senior authority in relation to the authority that reached the first-degree verdict, but also by the same authority that reached the first-degree verdict. So I don't think the UN tribunal, as it was, on the purely legal side, can serve the international community and those who founded it. The Hague tribunal is the basis with one very clear intention. With the intention to justify the political thesis, which appeared since 1990, or 1991, and the preparation for the thesis, it seems to me that it began even earlier, which is that Serbian leadership, that Serbia and ultimately the Serbian people, are responsible for breaking the former Yugoslavia. You remember that campaign began at the end of the 1980s, with that famous memorandum of the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts. In essence, by one Benign document, the memorandum was never actually adopted at the SANU Assembly, but was entitled "The Memorandum of the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts – Draft or Work Text". So it was a working text of something that was to be adopted by the Sanu Assembly. It's never been adopted at the SANU Assembly. But it is less important that it is not adopted, that memo of SANU did not call for war, did not call for the breaking of Yugoslavia, did not call for bloodshed. The SANU memorandum, the attitude of the people who wrote the draft memo, was in fact merely a detection of the political and economic problems faced by the then SFRY. From this one, in essence of the Benign document, all those who went into the process of violent secession, from the former Yugoslavia, such as Slovenia, Croatia, BiH, etc., in this one, I say more or less to the Benign document, found a ground for Serbia allegedly wanting to commit genocide against other Yugoslav peoples, above all against Croats and Bosniaks. The UN tribunal was founded on the wave of the negative campaign against the Serb people. After all, the verdicts reached in The Hague tribunal, the procedures led there, the length of the proceedings and the number of years to which Serbs were sentenced in The Hague tribunal, were in fact the function of proving and the initial political thesis that Serbs were responsible for breaking the former Yugoslavia, and others were more or less victims of Serb aggression or, as happened in the case of Praljak and other Bosnian-Herzegovic Croats. The post-festum, therefore, shortly after the death of Franjo Tudjman, was convicted, or found to be the leader of a joint criminal enterprise when it comes to the aggression of Croatia against BiH, but it means nothing to us Serbs, since it happened much after Franjo Tudjman died in 1999.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58787	Thank you, Mr. Martinovic. Nema Jovanovic, you want a replica, I suppose. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58788	I thank you, Chairman. Of course, I will relate to what the distinguished colleague Martinovic said. The political background and establishment and functioning of The Hague tribunal are doubtless. What is politically, particularly legally, a dangerous consequence, is the equalisation of the Serbian people with the German fascists. Why am I saying this? In 1945, a special tribunal, a tribunal for crimes committed by fascists, or Aryans, was also established. a German occupation force that wanted to conquer the whole world. At the time in Nuremberg, we had trials of war criminals who committed crimes during World War II, as those who killed hundreds of thousands of Jews through concentration camps with various means, which were those who waged national liberation wars, mostly in Partisan movements, which Roma did. And we come up with a very dangerous situation, that in almost identical ways the Serb people are viewed through the UN tribunal's decisions. Why? Because the number of verdicts handed down in The Hague tribunal suggests that 90% of the decisions, which are also legal under that statute, I must say, once completely outside of the legal act, the tribunal's statutes, have become legal, 90% of Serbs have been convicted. All 10% is leftovers, Croats, Bosniaks, etc. This data is a matter of concern that Serbia is placed on the pillar of the international, let's say, shame that we will never accept and will never deal with. On the other hand, the procedure has been continued through something that has so far been international law, especially international public law has not come to terms with the mechanism. What's the mechanism? Is that the tribunal's legal follower? It can't be. The mechanism does not exist, the very formulation of the mechanism in the legal sense is inadmissible. Is this a mechanism that implies a machine that should continue to grind, destroy, arrest, etc., those for which there is no evidence that they have committed crimes for which they have been indicted in The Hague? Apparently it is. Unfortunately, that mechanism exists. If someone tells me there's a basis in international documents for the existence of a mechanism, I'll apologize and withdraw everything I said, but I'm sure it doesn't exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58789	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. No problem, you called late, so I didn't see you on the display. The word has Vladimir Orlic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58790	On the subject of various pressures and absolutely unacceptable practices, it is not ladies and gentlemen, only a question of what we have since the tribunal's verdicts, or how it is baptized today, the mechanism, had the opportunity to see what we did not have the opportunity to see, or what was left. It's also a question of everything that has been done with an obvious clear intention, that some judgments never occur, that absolutely impossible to prevent at all costs, and even the greatest and most brutal one, that some judgments ever occur. What do I mean first? On the fact that the Republic of Serbia, therefore, for which there are claims every day, which are purely political assessments and a pure means of political pressure and blackmail, that it did not want to co-operate properly, came not 10 times, not 100 times, but certainly thousands of times the corresponding page of documents, relevant testimony, relevant data, official data on who is responsible, in which way it is responsible, and when it comes to those crimes committed to the Serb population. We were able to convince ourselves of many cases, and one, the Ramush Haradinaj case, may be the most drastic, most picturesque example of what happened then, that this documentation was not only rarely disappearing, but served as the basis for the disappearance and living people. The Ramush Haradinaj case, the people who were identified by Serbia, on which it provided the tribunal's data, disappeared, witnesses, and by the number it seemed to me that 19 had swallowed the darkness. So what happens next? All the other people, all the other potential witnesses, all the eyewitnesses, those who could share their knowledge that Ramush Haradinaj himself was responsible for the atrocities of the people, but the atrocities, take it literally, so all the things you can't imagine a living man doing to another, he took part in it. The others have retreated. When they see that one of them accidentally ran over a car downtown, the other one hits a stray bullet, the other one disappears, and the other one never picks up again, and they're all identified as people who could testify against Haradinaj, disappears and everyone else. So that's one big problem and a big burden, when we talk about Serbia's relationship with that tribunal. When we talk about relations at the moment, you heard a clear attitude spoken by Justice Minister Mrs. Kuburovic. It is unacceptable, precisely because of this history of relations, that today, in any way, any process for Serbia is being conditioned important, including the European integration process, some co-operation with that and such a tribunal. It's a purely political criterion, it's something that is unacceptable to us, because neither the prosecution nor this mechanism, whatever its name is today, has a mandate. And we, on our part, must, constantly, and these cases suggest, that we take care of how we protect our interests, because when we had power, and unfortunately we are in some period, people like Boris Tadic, Vuk Jeremic and their saints... (President: Thank you. ) The last sentence, and that we know that in relations with both such a tribunal and these and such relations on the international agenda, we allow people like Tadic and Jeremic and those similar to them to ask questions, then it is no wonder that even when there is the slightest chance that some people are clearly responsible for what they did to the Serbian people, you and such Tadics, Jeremiahs and similar text messages or some e-mail and make sure that for example. Ejup Ganic never answers, and that could have happened.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58791	Thank you, Dr. Orlic. (Alexander Seselj: Replica. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58792	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. First of all, with Mr. Martinovic's words, I could agree with everything he said earlier, but it is important now that Serbia recognises another danger. Not only is everything that was related to so-called. The Hague tribunal, aimed exclusively at bringing the blame for the bloody civil war in the former Yugoslavia exclusively to the Serbian people, shows this above all and the verdicts, pointless indictments, all court proceedings, and often that the vast majority of citizens of Serbia, i.e. people who are Serbian nationalities, convicted without proof. What is the main project of The Hague tribunal and construction, it is so-called Srebrenica genocide, which was subsequently formally adopted by the International Court of Justice, which also began to deal with politics without questioning. It is now important to bear in mind at this point that EU Neighbourhood Commissioner Johannes Han said very decidently that no country can join the European Union that does not recognise that genocide has occurred in Srebrenica. So, in addition to all these pointless and infinite conditions that come from the European Union of Serbia and pose as obstacles to this imaginary path of membership, it will now be the acceptance that genocide occurred in Srebrenica, or that Serbs are genocide people, and even we have a situation that the current and current ambassador of Germany to Serbia, Thomas Shib, has very hypocritically stated that Serbs should accept that genocide occurred in Srebrenica as soon as possible and that Serbia has committed genocide. Be careful with that paradox, that the German ambassador to Belgrade says something like that. It is now time to consider a further continuation of Eurointegration, to see this and that Serbia's state and government in Serbia are finally starting to protect national interests in this matter and not to allow any way for the Serb people to be identified as genocide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58793	Thank you, Mr. Seselj. Mr. Martinovic, I assume it's the basis for reporting to replicas. Can I just ask you something? Since I have not noticed for a moment that Professor Jokic has appeared, he has the right to reply, my colleague Marinkovic told me, based on his presentation of counterpart Jovanovic. Do you mind? Here you go, Professor Yokic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58794	Replic for another Jovanovic. If we understand each other, if it were good to abolish the institution of an investigative judge, it would be done by the French and the Germans, that's what's left in Europe. It's an American method, so it's only done to make the whole process ineffective. And on the other hand, a simple thing, so more do two men than one, I guess that's clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58795	Thank you, Professor Yokic. The People's MP Aleksandar Martinovic has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58796	About what Mr. Seselj said. I don't think Serbia is in danger after Justice Minister Nela Kuburovic's appearance to put himself in a position to slow her path to the European Union down by vehement non-co-operation with the mechanism for the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia. Serbia has expressed its very clear position here, that Serbia has done everything in terms of this co-operation and that we have clearly defined that we want to become members of the European Union and that it is extremely politically incorrect that Serbia has been conditioned on its way to the European Union for so many years after the wars in the former Yugoslavia have ended on its way to further co-operation with the mechanism. But there is one other thing, Mr. Seselj, which we all need to take care of, all of us who think well of the state of Serbia. Those who took over power in Serbia in 2000 at the same time accepted, some openly, some indirectly, the claim that Serbia was responsible for the former Yugoslavia's collapse. At the end of 2000, a very bad decision was made to request the admission of the SR of Yugoslavia to the United Nations, to request the admission of the SR of Yugoslavia, as a new state. This is how, when I say, the dosovic authority that was able to take over all the levers of power in Serbia in 2000, put practically SR Yugoslavia, in an international and legal sense, into the same balance with countries that were created by violent secession from the former Yugoslavia, Slovenia, Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, above all. This caused enormous damage to the SR Yugoslavia. First of all, it was a shame that we self-refused the continuity with the SFRY, with the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, with the Kingdom of Serbia and allowed those who violently separated from Yugoslavia to become co-excessors of the same state against which they fought, in the same way that we co-excessors were defending the state. There's one more thing that's very dangerous about it. (President: I'm just asking you to bring the end. Here, I'm done.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58797	Thank you, colleague Martinovic. Comrade Jovanovic, you have a basis for replication, but please, like all MPs, report to the moment when the presentation of colleagues to whom you wish to review, i.e. the replica is completed. Because now we have a situation that you are late, and the basis for the replica is a colleague of Seselj. No problem, I'll give you a basis for the replica, but I'm asking you to press the key gently. Here you go. You need to reapply.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58798	Thank you, Chairman. I accept your objection and suggestion, I answered as soon as I could, before that, by the circumstances of my colleague and of course they have the advantage. But given that I was in some way called, certainly positive from my respected colleague Jokic, I just need to draw attention to two facts. When it comes to a public prosecutor's investigation, there are other problems compared to those suggested by counterpart Jokic. These problems are present in practice and are increasingly affected by parties in the process, particularly defenders and those who are under direct charge, either of the indictment, or of the indictment. It is not a matter of whether or not there will be a judge for the previous proceedings. In courts there used to be one or two performers, who had the identity of an investigative judge. Today, we have in the prosecutions of five, six prosecutors running a public prosecutor's investigation, carrying out a case of evidence, determining whether these evidence with the necessary evidence was based on an appropriate indictment, whether the indictment was an indictment. The problem is essential nature, which is denied the right to appeal. It's unconstitutional, when it comes to the start of an investigation of a decision to conduct an investigation cannot be attacked by a complaint. The first problem, the second problem, following the prosecutor's final decision if a criminal complaint is rejected, can only be submitted directly to the senior prosecutor, no longer, which means that all decision-making powers are concentrated in one organ, which is dangerous. And why dangerous? Because the party has no one left to complain after its rejection, their hands are tied. It is a fundamental problem related to the conduct of a public prosecutor's investigation, the rest cannot be accepted as an argumental criticism.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58799	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. A colleague of Seselj, you want a replica of the presentation of his colleague Martinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58800	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. First of all, it is true what Mr Martinovic said about the international legal succession of the former Yugoslavia, and it is scandalous that the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia has again requested membership of the UN. But the international community's relationship, i.e. The international community, it is the euphemism for the most powerful Western countries towards Serbia and the Serb people, can be seen in the UN case above all, when Serbia wanted to initiate proceedings against the International Court of Justice over criminal NATO bombing. It was said that at a time when the event happened, Serbia, it was the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, it was not a member of the UN, so there was no basis for being legitimate in front of the International Court of Justice, and when BiH, launched a case against Serbia for the so-called genocide in Srebrenica, that Arshin was then of no importance and was not valid. So it's the international community's relationship, i.e. So-called international communities towards Serbia. Mrs Nela Kuburovic, in the Security Council, has indeed defended Serbian interests, there is no doubt that she has advocated the extradition of some persons i.e. Petra Jojic and the Verica Radeta, who are looking for a residual mechanism for criminal courts, unfounded. But Nela Kuburovic cannot change anything, nor change the EU's stance, nor force the EU to join Serbia without further humiliation. Unfortunately, such messages come to us almost every day without what is already a notorious fact, which is that Serbia should firstly recognise Kosovo as an independent state to advance on the path of Eurointegration. Now there is further humiliation to all of this, which is recognition that Serbs and Serbia have committed genocide in Srebrenica. Because of these facts, we need reasonable, sober and responsible to consider whether the further continuation of the Eurointegration process is in line with the interests of our people, with the interests of our country, and whether we can be willing to make such concessions on our identity, territorial integrity and everything else so that someone can tell us about some date, an indefinite date in the future, when we should become members of the EU, and we have no guarantee of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58801	Thank you, Comrade Seselj. Replica, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58802	First, I want to end up where I left off in a recent discussion with Mr. Shessel, therefore, the problem with the SRJ's admission as a new state in the UN in 2000, reflected also on the Kosovo and Metohija issue. As you know, the UN Security Council adopted Resolution 1244 in June 1999, more specifically on June 10th and in the resolution, it states among other things that Kosovo is an integral part of the SRJ. It took place on October 5, 2000, at the end of 2000, the new Dossow government requested the admission of the SRJ as a new state, noting as a new state in the UN Organization, and we came as a people to the problem that from certain circles in the international community very clear messages came to us, it did, according to Resolution 1244 that Kosovo is an integral part of the SRJ, but it was in 1999. You, meanwhile, requested admission as a new state to the UN in 2000, are not the country to which Resolution 1244 1999 actually applies. That's what those who took power did on October 5, 2000. That's what Vojislav Kostunica did, that's what Vuk Jeremic did, that's what Dragan Djilas did, that's what all those who protest today against Aleksandar Vukic against the Serbian government against the SNS, who are campaigning against their media in the worst possible campaign against the president of the Republic, against the Serbian government. As far as our journey to the EU is concerned, I do not agree with Mr Seselj that because certain countries, EU member states, have a firm view of certain thesis that are unacceptable to us, or which are problematic to us, that we should therefore give up our trip to the EU. I have repeatedly said that the SNS position is above all that we are not burdened with the EU accession date, because it does not depend solely on Serbia, it depends largely, if not predominantly on the EU itself. What is important to us is that Serbia fulfils its obligations under the negotiating chapters in fact standards that are important for citizens of Serbia for various areas of social life, economy, finance, justice, agriculture, environmental protection and so on. At the end of that road, whether we are going to meet the standards, in meeting what is good for Serbian citizens to join the EU or not, I think it is less important than bringing Serbian society to such a level that it can be largely similar or almost identical to that of a society in France, such as a society in Germany, such as a society in Italy or any other developed Western country. That is why it is important for our European path, and it is important because of what we have talked about these days, we have led one very much, I think a constructive debate, because the most investment in Serbia is coming right from the EU countries, and on the other hand the largest part of our exports goes just over 66% close to 70%, right on the market of EU countries.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58803	Thank you, colleague Martinovic. The word has the People's Messenger Alexander Seselj. Right on the line. Here you go, Comrade Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58804	Thank you. First of all, Mr. Martinovic, regarding Resolution 1244, we cannot ask for excuses that this does not apply to Serbia, since as you know in interpretation, telelogically, i.e. The objective interpretation of international legal acts here should be concluded that today's Serbia. As for our journey to the EU, we should see all the examples we had in the past during some of the former governments, and I agree that they have ruined Serbia, destroyed our economy and brought us into a catastrophic state, but after that they have lost in the elections. If they were good, they'd win again. Now it is your burden to correct these mistakes, not to pass some time period of six or seven years, as long as it has passed, and that we are still blaming the former regime for all the difficulties we have in our society. Now it's time for things to be fixed. As for the date of Serbia's EU membership, it does not depend at all on Serbia and we have just opened or closed another 100 chapters in the accession process, no one guarantees that we will become EU members. That we will now follow their recommendations and guidelines, so we will create a better situation and a better standard of living for our citizens, and that is not true. Take a look at the specific case, the recommendations of the Venice Commission, and the recommendations of the Venice Commission in the EU negotiation process are important, I think for Chapter 23, is to change the way judges in Serbia are elected, that the National Assembly be totally excluded from the process of electing judges, and in the leading EU state, the German Assembly, i.e. Bundestag picks judges. So we, who should be making progress, need to do it on the conscience of those Germans to change what already exists, so it's been working back in Germany for years. So, for us to experiment, to see how we're going to see now, to destroy as much of the judiciary and the legislative body as possible, and to keep their model how it should be for the legislative authority to function and elect judges and thus exercise control over the judiciary, i.e. It's about interdependence. This is an indicator of what the EU is asking Serbia to do. So, not as it should be, but as they say -- what Jupiter is allowed is not allowed to do, so the EU refers to Serbia, not only in this particular case of the judiciary, it was the most recent, and instead of following what we think should be the political stances that are supported by citizens in the elections, it turns out that it is not worth anything, but it is only worth meeting what comes as conditions and guidelines in the negotiating frameworks in the EU accession process.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58805	I thank my colleague Seselj. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. Right on the line. Here's a colleague of Martinovic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58806	The Serbian Progressive Party has repeatedly expressed a very clear view. We have made in a political, economical, financial sense a complete deviation from that method of ruling Serbia, which was valid from 5 October 2000 to 2012. So we have completely changed the course that Serbia is taking. Serbia is today an economically stable state, financially stable, respected in the International Community, and our position is respected in the International Community, with our fight for KIM and for Serbian national interests, of course still taking place. Why do we insist on the people of the former regime, which Mr. Seselj spoke of, because they are trying to regain power in Serbia. It's not a matter, it's legitimate to fight for power if you're a politician, what's not legitimate, is that you're trying to take power by force, past the election by breaking into RTS with motor saws, threatening long pipes, by bringing a truck in front of the Serbian presidency, so you don't let Alexander Vukic get out of his job, by insulting him, by attacking his family, his wife, his children, etc. In addition to what I'm saying, I want to meet the citizens of Serbia, that the tycoon, the mobster, the criminal, Dragan Djilas, is not enough that he robbed of Serbian citizens while at public posts more than 500m euros, it is not enough that Dragan Dilas and Vuk Jeremic sued the president of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic at a sum that is completely unreasonable how high he is. Dragan Djilas was through his lawyer Vladimir Todorovic a few days ago, the gentleman who otherwise insulted the president of France, Makron, and the vice-president of the party Vuk Jeremic, Dragan Djilas, in addition to suing Alexander Vukic and taking from Serbian citizens the way he repeatedly pointed out by Marijan Risicevic over the United Group, reselling seconds at RTS, forming fake cross-border television channels, and so on. It's not enough for him. He filed a lawsuit against the Republic of Serbia for the compensation of immaterial damages. In the lawsuit, among other things, Dragan Gilas is a public figure and politician, president of the Freedom and Rights Party. Vladimir Todorovic, vice president of the Vuk Jeremic party, he does not even know what the party Dragan Djilasa is called, it is called the Freedom and Justice Party. Of course, she's not a party to freedom or justice, it's a tycoon and mob organization, but a lawyer doesn't even know the name of his client's party. Then, he says -- Dragan Gilas was Belgrade's mayor from 2008 to 2013, after which he failed to perform any public office in the Republic of Serbia. This is an absolute lie. I would like to remind the citizens of Serbia that in 2004, Dragan Djilas, when Boris Tadic was elected president of the republic, became head of some fictional anti-constitutional national office of the president of the Republic and held the post from 2004 to 2007, in order to become minister in the Serbian government for so-called. National investment plan. Dragan Gilas did not get rich in the Czech Republic, as he falsely claims, he brought from the Czech Republic, according to his own words, 7,000 euros. He became rich, not in the period 2008 to 2013, but in the period 2004 to 2013. And, he's probably getting rich today over one of the TVs that is, in fact, television by name only, it's actually one agitprop new DOS called – Alliance for Change and which 24 hours... I think of the TV "N1", and now feel free to crucify me again, both me and all my colleagues, but I mean the TV "N1", which has been running a 24-hour campaign against the president of the Republic, against the government of Serbia, against the ministers of the Serbian government, against certain MPs. He was absolutely right, Minister Zoran Djordjevic, when he said the television was one of those entities pretending not to see anything positive happening in Serbia. There are construction sites all around us, new factories, new highways, new jobs all around us. Serbia is a much better place to live than it was in 2012 and N1 TV is pretending to not see it. He doesn't see any bogeymen, no truck. He doesn't see a mile of highway, he doesn't see a new job, he doesn't see a single factory, and we've opened factories all over Serbia. We've built over 400 kilometers of highway. It doesn't matter. It is important that 24 hours on that television, which is reportedly cross-border and not cross-border, is based in New Belgrade, and Novi Belgrade is neither in Luxembourg nor in Slovenia, runs an unprecedented hack and campaign against a man named Aleksandar Vukic just because he is in their eyes, quite right, a major obstacle to regaining power and doing the same thing they did until 2012, which is robbing Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58807	Thank you, Mr. Martinovic. Mr. Risticevic, you and your colleague, Seselj, are entitled to a replica. You're mentioned during the presentation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58808	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Martinovic, I can agree that if Serbia were to stop its relationship with the EU abruptly, it would in a certain way have suffered a great deal of damage not only because of the volume of trade, but also because of the volume of inflows of investments, even from Russia and China. I doubt the Chinese would invest so much in Serbia that they don't think they can use the EU market of nearly 500 million people. Few of us are the market for large-scale investment that comes into Serbia and, if we break up the rapid relationship with the part of the international community, especially with the EU, the CEFTA countries would automatically make similar moves and we would then suffer economically. As far as N1 television is concerned, that's where we agree. You forgot New S. It is a television that exists similar in Croatia, but it is also a pirate across the border from Gilas and Solak's TV. Now two televisions, fake, cross-border, pirated, serve their boss and act like portraits of School and Gilas. So, assaulting REM and freedom of the media? Imagine how unfree the media in Serbia are when these EU and European Commission complaints about freedom of the media are so free in Serbia that they are not even registered? Now, imagine New S and N1 TV, which serve Sollaku and Gilas, who come and say – we are proud that the European Commission has respected our view of the non-free media in Serbia, and those registered in Luxembourg, how do TV broadcasts in Luxembourg, and here it only re-emissions, complain about media freedoms in Serbia? I suppose they should complain about media freedoms and not freedoms in Luxembourg? Furthermore, you all think that N1 television is funded by Americans. You're wrong. Let the inspection go and you will see that TV N1 is the founder of "Adria News", whose founder is United Media, whose founder is United Group, so that is the team Petreus, Gilas, Šolak, you will be surprised, you will see that the subscription of SBB pays the money to N1 TV. My dear SBB subscribers, you're funding N1 television campaigns against this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58809	Thank you, colleague Rističević. Right on line, MP Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58810	Thank you. I've already said several times that it's true that members of the regime, who came to power after the October 5th mob coup, robbed and destroyed Serbia, but the question is now, if it's really true, what do we have to publish in the newspapers, on television or anywhere? Where are the trials? Where's the responsibility for what someone did while he was in power, if he was in crime? I will remind you, in 2012, when Miroslav Miskovic was arrested, Belgrade appeared in posters with his picture, a picture of Cedomir Jovanovic and Dragan Djilas, I think. There's been a bid on who's next. We haven't seen anything in seven years. We have seen that, if it is true that SNS now wants to make a major change in Serbia, we can still see in public life very actively taking part in the political life of Serbia and Mladjan Dinkic, and Aleksandar Vlahovic, and Bozidar Djelic, who was with the French president the other day, who seems to be also connected to this concession of "Nikola Tesla" and Miroljub Labus and all the team that is gathering around it. Serbian Davos or "Balkan of the Business Forum", together with the President of the Republic and together with the Prime Minister. It seems to me that there is a lack of determination to put an end to it, because there is probably something that is a general repression to show that such behaviour is punishable, that it is punishable to exercise power solely because of its material interests and that the state finally has a determined and thorough deal with it, we have not seen it. We see this minister who was a minister in all governments from 2000 to today. Still sitting in the government, Rasim Ljajic, one of the DOS leaders. Does that mean that we've broken up with DOS or that it's still so active? Let me remind you, this Ljajic sat in governments, both DS and DSS, and in governments where G17 plus and the URS participated, etc. The concrete moves are missing in this fight against crime and corruption, and the announcements, above all in the media, are very pompous.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58811	Thank you, Comrade Seselj. Kola Jovanovic, a replica of the exhibition of colleagues, Risticevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58812	I thank you, Chairman. Of course, I don't question any of the only facts presented by my colleague Risticevic. It's absolutely true. I can only resort to this and point out that because of the citizens of Serbia, it is the least said that people who criticise the authorities appear on TV N1, and we know that this is not a criticism that is justified, but a criticism that implies defamation, insult, humiliation and humiliation, and that in that show, which, as I recall, is called "360 degrees", MPs call cattle. Can one such way of expressing itself be paid any attention to such a vocabulary other than a conviction and the most severe condemnation for what has been said? On the other hand, we have in various media reports that, least of all, do not correspond to the truth, the mildest, do not respond to the facts, so in some papers, the interior minister, the foreign minister, is characterized in the worst possible way. To be completely honest and open, we in power, not the SNS, not the SPS, will never get into the editorial policy of these media. We will not bring their programs in which they will work, but we will always be against reporting lies, to label ministers in the worst possible way, to humiliate what in no way can be the subject of any assessment, except respect for someone's work and someone's results and someone's success. That's why I think it's absolutely right what's said and this is just one extra appeal to the citizens that all of what we're pointing out here, all we're saying is a conviction and that citizens accept it as a conviction and it's right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58813	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. Right on line, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58814	I thank you, Mr. Milicevic. Mr Risticevic said that I forgot New S. I did not forget, Mr Risticevic, Nov S, I did not forget all other media that are reportedly unfree, like "Times", like NIN, such as "The Sundayers", such as "The New Magazine", on which you can read only the most monstrous lies and untruths about Alexander Vukic, about ministers in the Serbian government, about individual MPs, about Serbia as a state, etc. As for this lawsuit filed by Dragan Djilas against the state, so now we're talking about a state lawsuit, it's not about Alexander Vukic, he's already been sued by both Dragan Djilas and Vuk Jeremic. Dragan Gilasu never had enough money. He has now sued the state of Serbia, and among other things, he says in the lawsuit -- the authorities of the Republic of Serbia have never filed a criminal or criminal complaint against the prosecutor, or Dragan Gilas, whom I have to apologize to, I said he brought 7,000 euros from the Czech Republic, and it is 70,000 euros, nor is any criminal or criminal proceedings being conducted against him. And this is an absolute lie and the citizens of Serbia need to know. On the day that Interior Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic said that an investigation is being launched against Dragan Dilas, to determine how it is possible for a man, a citizen of the Republic of Serbia, to earn while performing his public office, and to remind you, public functions are, not only the mayor of Belgrade, as he says in his lawsuit against the state of Serbia, but the director of the National Office of the President of the Republic, the minister of the Serbian government, the mayor of Belgrade and the fact and legal owner of the Democratic Party. Because don't forget, the moment Dragan Gilas bought the Democratic Party's debts to the "Vojvodine Development Bank", he became the leader of the Democratic Party. And he's also a public official on that basis. And his public office didn't stop in 2013. It's still going on today. He is the capitalist man, the largest capitalist in Serbia, and his party is called the Freedom and Justice Party. It is nowhere in the world that a capitalist, an orthodox capitalist who has become rich in an faceless criminal manner, presents himself as a socialist. And now, when Nebojsa Stefanovic said - we are launching an investigation, to see how it is possible that in a few years someone can make so much money to earn more than 500 million euros, it is not possible in any liberal capitalist state, and it was possible in Serbia, which was ruled by the informants, that day the unprecedented hack and campaign against Nebojsa Stefanovic through N1 TV, through "Today", through the various Draži Petrovic, Nedim Sejdinović, Dubravki Stojanović, Jova Bakic, Boško Obradović, Vuk Jeremic, Dragan Djilas, all possible and impossible officials of the non-democratic party, against Nebojšja Stefanovic, as he allegedly does not own a valid degree of Megatrend University, and at this Megatrend University lecture held Boris Tadić, Snezan University, the best of Europe, etc. So it's not true that there's no investigation. An investigation is being carried out against Dragan Gilas and me as a citizen of the Republic of Serbia, not as a member of the SNS, as a citizen, I would really like to see at the end of this investigation how it is possible, by means of a wealth mechanism, which has made the technology of business, Gilas rich to the extent that in a few years he has acquired assets of over 500m euros, with the value of his property amounting to about 25-26m euros, and has in square meters, which is residential, which is business space. Wait, let's bring things down to a language that the citizens of Serbia understand. Is that another Serbian citizen's hand? Did it go with any economists, doctors, engineers? No one went for it. Only Dragan Gilas went after his hand. (President: Thank you, colleague. I'm done. And on the day it's said -- we're going to start an investigation to see how a man got rich in a few years for 500m euros, the campaign against Neboja Stefanovic starts. I wonder what they'll come up with now. Who's next on strike? Because yesterday Nebojsa Stefanovic showed the journalists Tanjuga not a diploma, but a complete documentation relating to his studies, with all the photos he looked like at the start of his studies. And now it's just a reward question -- who's next of us on the hit of those so-called so-called. The media that are not free? Who are they going to target now with N1, those from Time, those from Today, those from Weekly, those from New Magazine, etc.? Now who's next to be determined that he's got a fake degree, that he stole something, that he did this or that? The important thing is that they're honest. It's important that they have valid diplomas. Bosko Obradovic seeks a degree in Nebojja Stefanovic, boasts with his diploma, that he has completed Serbian language and literature, received a seven-year grade from the modern Serbian language, and writes tweets that are completely illiterate. We've caught him here many times so a man can't say words, he doesn't know accentology. I wonder if his diploma is authentic? Because if someone is a professor of Serbian language and literature, and writes illiterate tweets and does not know how to express himself in Serbian literary language, and has graduated, beware, Nebojsa Stefanovic has not graduated from Aleksandra Vukic, and Bosko Obradovic has graduated from Professor Milo Lompara, who is president of the political council of Dveri, so this did not happen in Serbian cultural history, in Serbia's educational history, to graduate from the man you are party chief. It wasn't even at the time of communism. They made sure, at least formally, that there were no people on the committee who were party-related. The man graduated coldly from his president of the political council and still boasts that he is a professor of Serbian language and literature and has the courage to seek anyone's diploma, not just a degree in Heavenly Stefanovic, but anyone's diploma, and has graduated in front of the man he is party chief.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58815	Thank you, colleague Martinovic. Col. Rističević, you want a replica to be presented by your colleague Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58816	I think I have the right to two replicas, but let it be one. I think Mr. Orlic can remember because, Mr. Martinovic, we've been looking into this Milo Lompara. We also considered those "Ljotice". It is now not Bosko "Ljotic", now Bosko "Zutić". It is "Ljotic", but more "Zutić". We, Mr. Orlic and I, noticed that he graduated from Boško "Zutić", Bosko "Ljotic", on the same topic on which Milo Lompar doctored. So he borrowed from his professor, he was in Montenegro, as I recall. So, not only did he graduate from his party colleague, who he was in charge of, but he also graduated on the same subject, and he probably gave him a little copy of his behavior, which is also from this "dede run" accent, etc., he might notice. I don't mind what N1 TV broadcasts, or Nova, I'm totally Googled. They can say anything about me. Gilas sued the state. You try suing N1 and Nova S, you can't sue them, they're not registered media in Serbia. That's what they're called. ‘Free media’. They're so single, they don't even have to register. They'd have to, but they won't register. They lobby according to Brussels at Ivo Vajgla, which is what Mr Orlic was, lobbying on the work of Tanja Fajon, all called European parliamentarians and then saying there is not enough media freedom in Serbia. We're not dangerous to media freedom, we're dangerous to Dragana Gilas. Dragan Gilas joined the infusion into the media. So, the commercials he bought, media spaces, represented advertisers, the companies most famously represented Dragana Gilas, and that's part of where he got millions. Now, if you're a journalist, the paper's gone, but Gilas isn't. The press went down, but Gilas didn't. If Gilas doesn't give you a commercial, then you're going down. Gilas was the king of the advertising market. This medium is failing, these journalists have no money, but if they write something bad about Gilas, and that political option, then they've just robbed Bosnia. That medium can't last, so it can take a few editions, a few days, or if it's a weekly for a few months. Tell me, what medium existed until 2012, and it wasn't theirs? So the origin of Gilas' wealth is directly in the media. At this moment, the origin of his wealth... Its wealth is multiplied on fake cross-border media, which mates from Serbian subscribers, via SBB, come to fake cross-border channels in Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Malta, etc. That's where the money is shared. Why has the SBB been a loss since 2015, no gain at all? That's why when they buy it, it costs 2.6 billion. Who buys losers for 2.6 billion euros? Only one who knows how to pump money. So, Mr. Minister, Solak is driving the latest falcon. From the hole, to the golf course hole, by plane, the most modern plane, and the Serbian government ministers, the statesmen almost broke on a 30-year-old plane. Why? Because you allowed Solak to continue, Gilas multiplied their wealth at the expense of taxpayers and subscribers in the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58817	Thank you, colleague Rističević. Comrade Orlic, you have the right to a replica, you are mentioned during the presentation of colleagues Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58818	I remember, Mr. Risticevic, those things you ask me about, so I can't remember. We talked about them in this room. You know, it's totally on the line of these topics that we've been talking about all day. For example, this case of Bosko Obradovic, his graduate work, his mentor and everything on the subject, so he absolutely goes along with these doubts that we express, the reserves that we feel beyond his knowledge, his work. You know, when that one, you remember, Obradovic, when we caught him, that he wrote praises to Dimitri Ljotic, admired him, advocated his Movement "The Assembly", but also his Serbian Voluntary Command, the Corps, later, who committed crimes during World War II. Remember how he defended himself? Once he changes the board and says, "No, no, no, you don't understand." He says – I advocate the ideas of Milos Crnjanski and what Crnjanski himself published in the magazine "Idea" before the war. That's exactly the theme he's, like, graduated from, where he's the most professional. In doing so, Bosko Obradovic says he is completely anti-Yugoslav, he, Bosko, and disagrees with Ljotic about Yugoslavia. Watch out now, his mentor, this professor Lompar, says that Crnjanski advocated Yugoslav ideas. In the magazine, called “Idea, ” he thought of Yugoslavia. Now Bosko is an expert on that. Sam has no idea what he stands for, he himself has no idea what he supports and the hypocrisy he spoke of Mr. Seselj is looking at and at his views. Bosko calls Dragan Gilas a tycoon, a tycoon and a media tycoon, to be precise until the end, and then this Gilas, here, we also talked about today, asks the court to ban everyone in the Republic of Serbia from calling him a tycoon. Among the things that Gilasu is the most disturbed, he's bothered when he's told he's a thief, a thief, a fraud, which is all true, but he's bothered to be told he's a tycoon. Then, along the laps, he holds this and Bosko Obradovic, who apparently has no idea what his contents are, he has no idea what his political views are, he doesn't agree with his mentor about it, but he calls Dragana Gilasa a tycoon. Now, that doesn't bother Gilasu. The hypocrisy spoken of by Mr. Seselj is present everywhere, but literally everywhere, among other things, those who are enlisting over how other MPs, men and women are spoken of in the National Assembly. I am using, since it is now a hypocrisy topic, an opportunity to congratulate the DS for not issuing a single statement yesterday for the insults made to their national letter, Mrs Vuckovic, and only because they come from the ranks of Gilas' immediate environment. Congratulations, DS, that none of their high-ranking officials have ever said that they took it for protection and congratulations for accusing Alexander Vukic and the SNS of everyone in the world again. But they couldn't say a single word against what happened to their colleague, because they shouldn't be allowed by Dragan Gilas, because they can't be allowed from the debts he keeps in his pocket, or keep them all in his pocket, who knows how much of their property, who knows how much of their cars, and who knows how much of their money, and that's their relationship to the values, to the respect of others, but it's also an indication of some relevance and political courage. I think those are all the things that deserve honest congratulations. Congratulations to DS, "days" and TVs "N1" and to everyone who appeared yesterday are not and how things will never stand, they have shown top principles.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58819	Thank you. Comrade Seselj, do you want a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58820	There have been talk here about some media in Serbia who have views that are against Serbs and Serbia, against our people, where it is very often said that Serbs have executed the Srebrenica genocide, that Kosovo is independent, so some so-called. intellectuals from Kosovo, also finance the Mirdita festival, which serves to promote Kosovo culture in Belgrade. I will remind you, and in 2018, as every year before that, the budget has been allocated to funds used by NGOs. So, the paradox itself, the NGO that's funded from the budget. In this way NGOs finance the same media, I am not talking about television, I am talking about, above all, Sunday and daily papers, which Mr Martinovic spoke of, and "Time" and "Today" and others. They are the most famous for Kosovo as an independent state for them, genocide took place in Srebrenica, Serbs are a genocide people, a people of war criminals, lagging behind, primitive, credentials and whatnot, and yet in this way they are financed from the budget. It is not enough that there is an entire network of NGOs in Serbia, which are financed from abroad, such as the Open Society Foundation, the Friedrich Ebert Foundation, Konrad Adenauer, Rosa Luxembourg and all other foundations, but are thus financed directly from Serbia's budget. Why do you do that? Why is money defined for someone who later works against Serbian interests, which is obvious? This is where there is an obvious continuity with governments before 2012. No one has been determined to deal with such practice yet, because if there is an operation of NGOs, okay, but to arrange it the way it was done in America, as it was arranged in the Russian Federation, so that we know that when someone from the NGO shows up in some media, it is not experts, as it is increasingly often, of some hohstupler, Milan Antonijevic, who appears often to comment on the judiciary and to point out that we need to admit that there has been a genocide in Srebrenica, not to be declared by these media as an expert, but to know that it is an agent acting in foreign interest, because it is heavily financed from abroad. I'm not against freedom of opinion and freedom of expression. Anyone can have any attitude they want, but it's one thing when someone has an attitude and it puts it out in public, which they really mean, and it's completely different when someone's paid for their actions and public appearances.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58821	Thank you, Comrade Seselj. Right on the replica, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go, colleague Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58822	He's wrong, Mr. Seselj. I have to say one more time, no action at all. So, the MUP started by collecting evidence of how Dragan Gilas got rich, and how he gained 500m euros, and more, which is less, more, about Montenegro's budget, in a few years while he was a state official. In this lawsuit filed by Dragan Gilas against the state of Serbia, it is said, among other things, that Aleksandar Vukic makes statements as president of the republic, not as president of the SNS, and that he marks Dragan Gilas as a people's enemy. Aleksandar Vukic did not mean Dragan Gilas as a popular enemy, but only asked him, as we all ask him, how could someone be rich in so many years as he performs various public functions, the function of the director of the National Office, the role of minister in the Serbian government, the office of mayor of Belgrade, as owner of the DS. There is one interesting thing about this lawsuit, that Serbian citizens should know, and this can also serve as evidence of the supreme hypocrisy of what is called the Alliance for Serbia. The suit says -- physical attacks and threats to opposition politicians and journalists have become a regular phenomenon since Alexander Vukic, president of the republic, and someone representing the defendant. This is the sad one, which means the state of Serbia. So, Dragan Gilas admits in his lawsuit that Aleksandar Vucic is someone who represents the Republic of Serbia by the Constitution, and every day from that same Dragan Djilas, from Vuk Jeremic, from Bosko Obradovic, from various false journalists, from various analysts and experts for all and all kinds of things, you can hear the same question – where is the right for Alexander Vukic to conduct dialogue on KIM? Where's the right for Alexander Vukic to bring investors? Where does Alexander Wolf have the right to open factories? From where is the right of Alexander Vukic to promise people who are in trouble that canalization will be introduced to them, that they will be made the way of idt.? They say he has no right under the Constitution, he cannot do it, it is not his authority that stems from the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and then they put together a lawsuit against the Republic of Serbia and they say – so that Aleksandar Vukic represents the Republic of Serbia, he is the one who designated Dragan Gilas as a national enemy as a representative of the Republic of Serbia. Now, our question to them, from so-called. The Alliance for Serbia is – is it, Vukic has the right to do what he does? We think he has the right, and so he has the right, and not only the right, as the President of the Republic has the obligation to be in the service of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. So, he has the right to bring investors, he has the right to help citizens who are in trouble, he has the right to open new factories, he has the right to create new jobs, he has the right to fight crime and corruption, because it comes first from the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. But that's what the Serbian citizens should know, admits Dragan Djilas himself, as also admits Vuk Jeremic in this lawsuit, that Aleksandar Vukic is someone who represents the sad Republic of Serbia, because poor Dragan Gilas is little what he stole while he was in power. He is now trying to damage the state of Serbia as an opposition, so he sued the state of Serbia for statements made by the president of the republic, as he said in his lawsuit, the prosecutor's representative. So, we have now established that Aleksandar Vukic and that is what Dragan Gilas admitted through this lawsuit, that Aleksandar Vukic is absolutely right and that he has all the constitutional capacity to do all those jobs he is doing, which are in favour of the citizens of Serbia. And whenever they say that Aleksandar Vucic has no right to conduct a dialogue on KIM, that he has no right to talk to foreign officials, that he has no right to travel to Republika Srpska, that he has no right to speak to Serbs from Croatia, with Serbs from Montenegro, etc. We'll show them nice, not Serbia's Constitution, after he's been run over many times, but a suit by Dragan Gilas, saying that Alexander Vukic is someone representing the Republic of Serbia. If someone represents the Republic of Serbia, then he has the right to fight for that Republic of Serbia and to care for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia and to care for their interests and to help them even when it is difficult for them.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58823	I thank my colleague Martinovic. My colleague, Orlic, you've been looking for a replica to present your colleague Rističević, haven't you? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58824	Yeah. Hard hypocrisy all over the place when you look at ladies and gentlemen, but literally everywhere. When Dragan Gilas says - I'm rich in politics, and from the sources that are directly around him, which are closest to him in the world, you see that everything is the opposite, what it is but a difficult hypocrite. When, on all of this, Dragan Gilas starts to plant, dress up his official biography, so as time goes on, he's more and more shortening the time he spent in politics in official functions, and during which he's rich, what's it like to be a hard hypocrite? "Time", a magazine Sunday of November 2009, in this "Time" magazine is close to Dragan Djilasu, a magazine that Verica Barac identified as a newspaper by Miroslav Miskovic. So, in 2009, such "time" brings a story about where Gilas came from the first million and they wonder, it was not clear to them, and it seems that by today it is not clear to the citizens of Serbia where Gilasu first millions came from. Says Gilas – I was very rich, in 2006 I already had millions. But there's no way to explain where those millions came from the moment they first showed up. Did they come into some period before that? We know that Gilas brought the 70,000 euros to Serbia, theoretically maximum, but where he earned it before entering politics in 2004, it is absolutely unknown. This "Time" from 2009 says – Gilas earned a million by washing windows in London. Now, when you know how many people every day become millionaires in London from washing windows, you can just spread your hands and say – well done, that's a reasonable explanation, that's a convincing explanation and we believe you. So, these kinds of nonsense they deal with. Then they realize it's a little too transparent, they move the story to – it's rich in the Czech Republic, after London, Dragan Gilas. Then from their APR, look at all the companies that Gilas formed, with his best man, Junior Djordjevic, add everything and turn out to be 70,000 euros, is not a million. There's some difference between 70,000 and one million. I'd say it's not that small. Sam Gilas, for these and such newspapers, for the specific portal "Krika", therefore again his organization, admitted that the company "Direct Media", through which he charged the homeless money, while dealing with politics, was first registered to his godfather, that the godfather was a formal owner, because Gilas, as he said, did not consider it convenient because of the conflict of interest to see that Gilas was the one who had it, and he was essentially the owner of it. You know what money he transferred that company to himself for? The moment he entered politics, and that's not how Gilas lies now, not in 2008 or 2006, but in 2004, it's $10,000. He was so worth his business back then. Ten thousand dollars was worth what Gilasu provided hundreds of millions in company accounts, while performing state functions and what he formally sold for me seems 18 million at the end of 2013, of course the euro. It is his wealth before politics and his wealth after politics. And what's best in the whole story, that's all the things we don't say, and nobody from SNS came up with this morning, but as you can see, they've been in the sources that are closest to him for years, it's published by his screams, birns, cyns, and these are things that we don't need to prove, but we just show the authorities on them and we say, here, see what these people claim about themselves. Please make sure this is true, so if it is true, to see what the role of that and that Dragan Gilas is in all of this. He can defend himself by keeping his mouth shut as long as he wants and he can come out with a new version of his washed biography in which he says - I've never been in any function. These are the things he can't escape from, these are the answers he owes to the people he nicked from his back.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58825	Thank you, colleague Orlic. We're continuing with the amendments. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 59th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is from the MP Nikola Savic. Here you go, colleague Saviæ.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58826	Here, it's finally time to talk about the amendment. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to a member of the 59th Law, he speaks of the powers of ministers in this area. I asked my amendment to erase the position of the 9th member of the law. I just didn't think the minister needed this much authority. It follows from the very reasoning of the law, where it is said that these things will be regulated in a different way, rather than regulated by sublaws. I don't mind it being regulated by sublaws, but practice shows, from experience, we know that legal acts are mostly late, sometimes late and a few years, we've had cases, to the soul, with some laws, that laws have been amended, and in the meantime, no sublegal acts have been passed, and we know that law without sublegal acts is not the law. On the other hand, no matter how much authority there is a minister or anyone else in this regard, we know that traders are the ones who will always strive to sell and place their product in today's day, without advertising simply impossible any store, and the ads have become so powerful and so sophisticated that we literally have certain types of products where the customer does not buy the product, in a literal sense, but buys an impression, or buys a message from the advertising itself. So, a man buys something he doesn't need many times. For example, a man doesn't need diamonds, like diamonds, but needs an environment reaction to his diamonds. So I think that these powers, in this respect that the minister has, will not solve anything, because there is always a way to play it all out and sort of solve it differently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58827	Thank you, colleague Saviæ. You'd like a replica to be presented to your colleagues, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58828	I think the Serbian government did a good job of not accepting this amendment. Otherwise, the Serbian government has been hit by Boška Obradovica for a long time, on July 15, 2019, at seven hours and 36 minutes, a highly educated, high-minded Bosko Obradovic, says this in his tweet - good morning Deputy Prime Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic, it is no shame not to have a college, there are many moral and professional people without a college, in many ways better than high schooled. It is a shame and a crime, to buy a college degree, to be careful, to act, to pay attention to Mr. Risticevic, to act as a doctor of science and to come to the con to power and to a high state function. So, a man writes an act as a doctor of science, and he presents himself as a professor of Serbian language and literature. Now I ask, is Boška Obradovica a valid diploma? I ask the competent state authorities, please the educational inspection to determine whether Bosko Obradovic has graduated Serbian language and literature in a legally prescribed manner? Because it's completely illogical and unacceptable for someone who is a professor of Serbian language and literature to say that someone, or to say, is acting as a doctor of science. Serbia's government is on fire and Aleksandar Vucic is being hit by another great Serb political scene, that is Janko Veseinovic. He has often been spoken of by my esteemed colleague, Professor. Marko Atlagic. (Marco Atlagic: Stanocrat. That's right. Janko Vesenović appeared on Twitter on July 16th 2019, at 14 hours and 13 minutes. Insolent, otherwise, by the fact that French President Makron came to visit Serbia, indignant by the fact that he was received by the President of the Republic, Aleksandar Vukic, that they had a very good quality, not only diplomatically, but friendly conversation, that Makron addressed Serbian citizens in Serbian and what is very interesting, Mr Risticevic, see, he wrote that tweet on July 16th 2019 and wrote beautifully – from Croatia. (Marian Rističević: Stan Milice Badge.) ) That's right, so Janko Veselinović would like to take down Alexander Vukic by swimming in Croatia, in the Adriatic Sea. You can't beat a man who hasn't gone on vacation, if I'm not mistaken, for nine years. You can't beat a man who works day and night. You cannot defeat the Serbian government that is struggling day and night for the interests of the citizens of Serbia. Janko Veselinović cannot be from the Croatian coast, tweeting against the visit of Makron, to be a serious threat and serious competition to Aleksandr Vukic, you cannot. If you want to beat Alexander Vukic, you have to do more than him, you have to be better than him, you need more municipalities, cities, villages to run over your feet than Alexander Vukic. How do they do that? By flying on the Croatian coast, and be careful, Janko Veselinović, and this was spoken of by my colleagues and Atlagic and Rističević, flying to the Adriatic Sea, in an apartment that was kidnapped, which was given to him by the Croatian government, by a woman who was expelled from Croatia and named Milica Badja. Shame on him. Here he fights for some justice, for some truth, wants to change power in Serbia. The one who kidnaps Serbian apartments in Croatia, writes tweets from Croatia against Alexander Vukic, to defeat Alexander Vukic? That's impossible. Because it's impossible for them to beat him in the election, then they reach out to the motor saws, the gallows, the trucks, the baggers, through Jova Bakic they're threatening us with long pipes, etc. So things are completely clear here.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58829	Thank you, colleague Martinovic. Comrade Rističević, allow me, you have a natural basis for the replica, but let's give priority to the amendment promoter, and then we'll make a certain order, given that the system is full. Here you go, colleague Saviæ.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58830	Mr. Martinovic, I can agree with a lot of what you said about Bosko Obradovic. However, my amendment and my presentation on my amendment have nothing to do with Bosko Obradovic. I was talking about how the minister's powers were, and then I was talking about advertising, that there's no sales without advertising. If you should mention someone, my amendment and my presentation have much more to do with Gilas, because we know that this man who sold ads is probably doing it now, so it might be better if you took him as an example, not Boška Obradovica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58831	Thank you, colleague Saviæ. The right to the replica, first of all, of counterpart Marijan Rističević, to present his colleague, Aleksandr Martinovic. Here you go, colleague Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58832	Mr. Martinovic, Janko Veselinovic, leader, called the tenant, as Mr. Atlagic calls him, is flying to the Karin Sea in the stolen apartment of Milice Badže, which Croatia gave him along with the money. He regularly receives money from the fund that the Croats acquired with Tesla bank, where the money was deposited by Bojan Pajtic, who had called his party while Mr. Orlic, Janko Vesenovic, was there, a boat of lunatics. The crazy ship was being introduced from Serbia, from Vojvodina to Zagreb, into Tesla Bank, and then formed by Janko Veseinovic, gave money and formed - a history association and such. So it's a man who has two organizations, two citizenships. That's the man who led the voters from the Krajina to vote. But in front of the polling stations, he stopped the bus and ordered it to vote for HDZ and a man named Bishop, which I remembered well. So he was getting money from our state to take these voters, and then from the Croatian state he got the money they sucked out of Tesla Bank, and with that money he brought voters and ordered them to vote for HDZ, even at promotions with HDZ representatives in Krajina. That's the big head of the craftsman's association here, and there's a history association, and I don't know how else. Mr. Becic knows that and Mr. Orlic knows it better than I do. As far as college property is concerned, Bosko Obradovic has no college. He's got Professor Lomper, his member, a member of one of his councils or an elder's office or I don't know what. He's got him, but he doesn't have a college. You can't have a college. You may have a degree in college, but I'm an expression from a professor of literature that someone doesn't have a college, so Nebojsa Stefanovic is not such a robber that he has a college. I think that Bosko Obradovic can have and own a college, of those robbed 30 million, which the investigation has already shown, but thanks to the immunity of Bosko Obradovic is trying to represent himself as the biggest political opponent, so that he will not be prosecuted. Furthermore, as for RTS reporting, Mr Orlic and Martinovic, I was taken down at the request of the complaining opposition, I was taken off the day the show was due. They called me and said you can't go on the show, we'll call you sometime, some other time. And you know why they canceled me? Because two opposition representatives of Nenad Canak and Mr. Djordje Vladinovic, or as it is already called, complained that they would not participate in the show with me and then I as the most active member of the show to deal with relations in parliament was eliminated, so that those who are very rarely, very rarely, would participate in this parliament. So, if there is freedom of the media, it exists on my account, so I am the most brutally censored in this parliament, censored even during Milosevic, by the speaker covering the tone when I spoke in the assembly. Now it's time to censor me again. Here, Mr. Bujosevic, you who rob your own employees, who rob your subscribers, feel free to re-cover my tone, you can freely censor me again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58833	I didn't cover your tone. You were in direct transmission. (Marian Risticevic: I'm not sure. Be safe. Comrade Martinović, please, you have the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58834	A fellow Savic said in a replica that I didn't mention Dragan Gilas. I mentioned Dragan Gilas many times today, because I wanted to inform Serbian citizens that Dragan Gilas was not enough that he stole 500m euros from Serbian citizens, it is not enough that he and Vuk Jeremic sued Alexander Vukic as a natural person, as an individual, but has now sued the state of Serbia. And he sued the state of Serbia because the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vucic named it the alleged folk enemy who steals every citizen of Serbia. Aleksandar Vukic did not tell Dragan Gilas that he was a national enemy, but he did say that he was illegally enriched while he was head of the National Office, while he was minister in the Serbian government, while he was mayor of Belgrade and therefore the Ministry of Interior took the law of the prescribed action to determine that Dragan Gilas had reached that 500m euros, or more than 500m euros, and I repeat again, it is approximately the budget of a state such as Montenegro. It didn't go hand in hand with anyone living in Serbia, it went hand in hand to Dragan Gilas. So I mentioned Dragan Gilas in that context. I had to mention his fighters, too, because this is proof of how hypocritical these people are. The hypocrite is Bosko Obradovic, who seeks someone's degree, presents himself as a professor of Serbian language and literature, and then tweets that it is embarrassing: "acts like a doctor of science". I also mentioned this assaulter, Janko Veseinovic, who regretted that Makron came to Serbia, which was received by Vukic, who did not want to talk to Djilas, Bosko Obradovic, Vuk Jeremic and similar to them, and answered the tweet from Croatia. A tweet from the Adriatic Sea came from a place where the Croatian state gave him an apartment of an exiled Serbian woman in 1995, Milice Badge. I did it to make sure the citizens of Serbia know what kind of political opponents we're dealing with. And thank you for sitting in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, for respecting this high legislative home, for respecting the state of Serbia and for pointing to your case, even though you are an opposition party, that we can civilised and culturally discuss those topics that we disagree on. The problem is with those who allegedly boycott Serbian Parliament sessions, but do not boycott assembly salaries, do not boycott travel abroad, they would like to come to power without elections, or they would like elections, to be fair, but not to be participated in by Aleksandar Vukic and SNS. And in the meantime, so in the valley, because they have nothing to do, they don't know what they're going to do, they're all unemployed and lazy, this one who's supposed to be a professor of Serbian language and literature can't express himself in Serbian literary language, because he says he has a college, I don't know where his college is, and it's suspicious to him, Mr. Risticevic, and a diploma, because I'm surprised that a professor of Serbian language and literature can't express himself in a literary language, and this other one that would take Alexander Vuk's bath in Croatia at sea, tweets from Croatia, and then when he comes back from the beach goes, shame on him, to an apartment that he kidnapped, or which the Croatian state kidnapped from the woman of Srpika, who was expelled in "Surke" 1995. Such as to defeat Alexander Vukic, such as to defeat the SNS in elections, democratic elections, never.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58835	Thank you, colleague Martinovic. Comrade Orlic, you are mentioned during the presentation of colleagues Rističević. You have a basis for replication, if that's what you want. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58836	About Mr Risticevic's direct questions addressed to Mr Bečić and me, the issue of the Vojvodina Development Bank. Are we done, I think we are, that's exactly the question... (Marian Risticevic: I Tesla Bank.) And Tesla Bank, of course, but first this one in Vojvodina. We have concluded, it seems to me, that this is exactly the mechanism used by Dragan Gilas himself to become practically the owner of DS, the owner of DS. Their debts, which he generated, along with Pajtic, were well noted, and I think it was recorded and recorded in the official DS report, we brought this report here. So Pajtic and Gilas have made this arrangement that they have burdened DS, then that DS had no money to pay back, so they mortgaged apartments, cars, a lot of personal savings, the bank had to tear them apart and then they found a fantastic solution – Gilas 49 million, correct me if I'm wrong, Mr. Risticevic, takes over from the bank, put them in his pocket, gets them for 38 million, but now he's charging his former DS party for all 49, which means that only one move of 11 million dinars is good. It is probably a small, small contribution to those hundreds of millions of euros that it has directed towards its firms, but it is said to be thrown. Eleven million dinars to be added to your pocket, that's fine. In this case, specifically, at the expense of this DS, which, as far as I can see from these current statements, continues to pay that debt. They still pay him off neatly every month, and they still can't get it over with, because, according to those DS people themselves, he's interesting them with green interest. I guess that's 20 percent, right, a year. Mr. Savic, the only thing I have to intervene in is one thing, he was wrong. When we talk about these things, everyone we mention belongs to that side directly refers to Dragan Gilas. You said – you should not mention Boško Obradovic in the story of Dragan Djilas, but it is all the same story and these are for us people among whom there is no difference. So, when we say Bosko Obradovic, yes, we also think of Gilas, just as we say every time we say Zeljko Veselinović, we also think of Gilas. All of this applies to the same circle of people and all of this goes directly to Dragan Gilas. He chose to say it himself; there is no difference between me and them. He chose and said it himself. Nothing means anything to him, any ideological barrier. So, if Bosko Obradovic supports the political cuts, the attitudes of Dimitri Ljotic and that fascism, Dragan Djilas himself chose to say – that is close to my heart, I see no difference between myself and that. It's their choice. Speaking of this Zeljko Veselinović. I congratulated both today and DS and all these allegedly amazed at the question of how it is spoken publicly in Serbia, what is all the blame, of course, Alexander Vukic and SNS, and when Gilas offends someone, and when Jeremic insults someone, and when Željko Vjeljinović insults someone, it's all our fault. But if the DS fails to intervene when they insult their MPs, they don't send a statement, one word, none of the officials say, they're afraid of Gilas, I can even understand that they couldn't, that they were dealing with other things. I see they made a decision yesterday on the statute committee to annul Lutovac's decision, the Executive Board, which is being thrown out by some insubordination MPs. So there will obviously be a lot of cooking and turmoil left over, a question of what will eventually come out and what will remain of the party. But I don't understand why others didn't react. They didn't react when Veselinovic called for the rape of Ana Brnabic. We understand why. Because Anna Brnabic is perceived as someone who belongs to the other side, this side of ours, so I guess she's not worth the attention. They didn't react even when they were attacking verbally, but physically, Maja Gojkovic, for the same reason, we know who they are. They think it's a woman on the other side here with us from the SRS, so it's not worth it. But to this extent, they are intimidated by Dragan Gilas, an unfeelingly rich and powerful, blatant across every border, that they must not now take the protection of anyone who is in their ranks, if you have to admit something completely new and I didn't know that both DS and these other Gilas parties and his Dvori, but also his "Danasods" N1, Ninovi, Birnov, Zins' screams and all of them are common to that kind of practice, it's better than the European standard.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58837	Thank you, colleague Orlic. The amendment promoter, MP Nikola Savic, has the right to replicate. You will receive, wait only for the president of the amendment, or the promoter of the amendment, and I will give you the right to the replica. It's all right. I understand, you have a basis for replication after the presentation of colleagues, but let's just give priority to the amendment promoter and you'll get the opportunity to replicate. Here you go, colleague Saviæ.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58838	When I mentioned Bosko Obradovic and Dragan Gilas, I said that Dragan Gilas did not mention himself in the context of my amendment, because there I was talking about some commercials, and we know that Dragan Gilas, the protocol, the advertising master, and this is exactly the wealth you're talking about, was here by selling ads. As far as Boško Obradovica is concerned, I don't care, I don't think about his diploma whether it's valid or not, it's different to me, and that is, you advances are to blame for why such a list and such a man was found in the National Assembly at all. The Serbian Radical Party was the only one who insisted that the list did not cross the censorship and that Kyle Scott, the US ambassador who literally pushed the list into the National Assembly. Imagine the probability that a single list of 200 and I don't know how many thousands of votes, how much it took for a censorship for one single vote, or even less than one vote. Well, it's more likely that each of us is hit by a meteor, than that one single vote is missing to get into the National Assembly. As for Gilas, Jeremic, Obradovic, and so on, we are absolutely in agreement with you, even on some things we are even more rigid than you are.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58839	Thank you, colleague Saviæ. The word has a proposing representative, Minister Zoran Djordjevic. Here you go, Minister Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58840	I will return only to what you have proposed with the amendment, and I do not agree with Mr. Saviæ that this position should be cast out. I know that there may now be some personal reason why you say that the minister should not decide, but I also think about how to stand, and how it has to do with Mr. Vesenovic, and Mr. Obradovic and all the citizens, but mostly with them, because they travel quite often and if any goods are taken away, then there should be a minister, who and how to decide in such cases what to do with that slave.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58841	Comrade Bečić, you want a replica of the exhibition of colleagues Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58842	Mr. Risticevic, tycoon Gilas and white-world swindler Jeremic, when they finally became aware that the quasi civil protests had experienced a complete fiasco, because citizens cannot accept that they were told more honestly by such hypocrites, whose mugging policy brought Serbia to an ambis, and our citizens were led to hopelessness and a mass of unemployment still think they could insinuate the delusions of restoring their looting power, thinking that the citizens had forgotten their thieving and are now saying that they should strike all the funds against the president of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandr Vukic, his family, his closest associates. After all, we are also witnessing a monstrous, dirty campaign through the name of independent media such as the daily list "Today", TV "N1" and most weekly calls for President Aleksandar Vukic's lynch, threats and unfounded accusations by representatives of the self-called intellectual elite, Vladite Jankovic, Siniši Kovacevic, Dusan Todorovic, Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Marinika Tepic. These media broadcast and propagate, but they are probably media freedoms that are understood in a democratic society. I guess every insult, demeaning and worst threats is acceptable when it comes to Alexander Vukic, his family, and his closest associates. It's democracy, it's all acceptable, just don't let anyone put a word too strong on the representatives of the self-called intellectual elite. They're untouchable intellectuals. So Dragan Gilas is skillfully using the opportunity to create scandals and sues to draw attention from a serious investigation into the "seconds" affair that is in the final stage and which exposes the serious and long-standing robbery of state money on RTS that will finally expose an octopus that has systematically robbed and destroyed the city of Belgrade and the state of Serbia. Thus, according to Gilas's warrant, his wartime fighters with Bosko Obradovic are moving from all available funds with attacks on Deputy Prime Minister and Interior Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic, accusing him of everything and everything in order to ensure that Gilas provides himself with time to come up with justification for his role in already discovered affairs in Belgrade and to rob 650m euros in RTS, millions of euros. I have often said that those who do not want peace and stability in this region do not choose funds and do not want money to put pressure on President Vukic, who is no doubt a factor of stability in the region, the only hope and guarantee for citizens for prosperity, economic growth and a better life for all Serbian citizens. That's why I agree, Mr. Risticevic, with your presentations, because it is finished that it is necessary to tell Serbian citizens that we cannot accept what we hear every day on this call to independent media.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58843	Thank you, colleague Becic. We've got more than one member of the parliament, and we'll respect the order in the system. You and your colleague, Martinovic, and your colleague, Rističević, have a colleague, but we have to go in order only. You have responded to the presentation of the proposing representative, and I will respect the order of the electronic system. Here you are, first of all, my colleague Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58844	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Becic, Mr. Orlic, Mr. Martinovic, and all of you who remember Dragoljub Micunovic. I know it's DS and debt slavery, and I know it and it tells Mr. Martinovic and your fellow citizen from Ruma, Borovic, is that his name? It talks about the operation, speculation worth one pen move, him and Pajtic, eleven million dinars and obedience of the rest of DS to Gilas. Pure serviality. Imagine Mr. Micunovic, who spoke here in this parliament and beyond, at a time when the opposition wanted to boycott and so on. He was only talking to me on bayonets. You can get me out of here. He's quoting someone. Mr. Micunovicu, what kind of bayonet, Dragan Gilas? What kind of bayonets are these? It's not these, it looks like other bayonets that made you leave parliament at the invitation of Dragan Gilas and do something like this in your career at that age. I also think he was saying a saying, choose company, don't let society choose you. Well, Mr. Micunovic, it seems that society has chosen you. A dangerous society led by Dragan Gilas. From patriotism or "p", a society that goes to Haradinaj and Thaci, which has gone before. I'll give you a spray paradox. Tibor Cerna, Hungarian, dies in Kosharam with the last words: “This country was worth dying for. “ Remember, from the village in the municipality of Kovačica. His parents don't have a phone, they're so poor, they answer the neighbor's phone three days later, he's dead. They're dying for this country. At the same time, Dragan Djilas, leader of the alliance of thieves, frauds and Latvians, such as that of Marisav Petrovic, Sergei Trifunovic, in his terms, so that he can shoot Tibor Cern himself. Now, you'd kill him again. At the same time, when this dead, Sergei Trifunovic flees to America formally, he flees to the aggressor side, which has thrown 22,000 tons into this country. Is that true? Yes, it is. At the same time, Dragan Gilas, the leader of this alliance in the Czech Republic, is doing commercials. The wolf, Jeremic, son of Misko Jeremic, one of the directors of Slobi's "Yugopetrol", and in London, so the kid doesn't smell gunpowder. Where was Bosko Obradovic? He was not a minor, he was 23 years old, he had no idea that he shared fate with his peers in Pastric and Kosharam, but came to Belgrade to start the magazine "the beast". Now, these are the great patriots. He wasn't ready to die for KIM, I'm not asking him to, but today that same man is ready to die for the Schools and Gilas' private businesses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58845	Thank you, colleague Rističević. Choose your colleague Saviæ in order of the reported. You have the right to a replica, the presentation of the president of Prime Minister Djordjevic's proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58846	I want to replicate to Mr. Secretary. Mr. Minister, at least for us, it's a dispute next. Instead of saying "Minister", it should stand "at least the ministry". Here, give you a concrete example. The law we're talking about today is from Minister Rasim Ljajic's jurisdiction. Rasim Ljajic is not there, not only today, but also yesterday and these days and several months, and imagine if something in his exclusive jurisdiction is literally Rasim Ljajic, we could not discuss this law. That's what this is all about, and that's the meaning of the amendment that I've submitted to article 59 of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58847	Thank you, colleague Saviæ. The right to replica by order of registered MPs, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go, colleague Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58848	I think the Serbian government did well to reject the amendment of fellow Savic because under the Law on State Administration, all the powers of the ministry are, in fact, concentrated in the hands of the minister and, therefore, in the Bill of Law, the word of the minister is right, because he is the one who brings on behalf of the ministry all general and individual legal acts. What I also want to say is about that famous text from a few days ago, "Elita and Plebs", written by Aleksandar Vukic in "Politica". One of the organizations that was called and which came forward about this text is the organisation that we here, the MPs, have often mentioned, which is BRODI. The Social Research Bureau is reportedly an independent news and research house dealing with public opinion research. That's how they introduce themselves to Serbian citizens. But the truth is completely different, and what I'm trying to say is, no one should take it as an attack on this organization, this is the truth about this organization. The Social Research Bureau has been part of the Civil Front political organisation since October 2016, so here, for almost three years now. The Civil Front consists of the "We Don't Drown Belgrade", the Local Front from the Kingdom, the Association of Presidents of the Niš Assembly, the TV Movement from Novi Sad, the League of Roma, and a multiethnic centre for the development of the Danube 21 region in Bor. So, BIRODI is not an independent news-searching house, but is part of a political bloc that has openly placed itself on the side of the Alliance for Serbia, led by Dragan Gilas and led by an open political war, primarily against the president of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic and against the SNS. Otherwise, let me just get to know the citizens of Serbia, today is Friday, working day, we Members of the People's Party are working, and one who also gets the circumstances of the MP because something has gone on the list of a political party and which, meanwhile, has fallen apart, is not in its place of work, although it receives a regular salary every month, and that is, Mr. Risticevic, a well-known former prime minister, Zoran Zivkovic. He now appeared via Twitter at 12:52. And see how he insults us: "These are the sheep's SNS and the sheep's SPS... “ So we’re sheep, besides being credentials, being stupid, and being sandwichers, have shown us in “Today ”... I'm not going to use the term, believe me, on the cartoons of how the MPs showed up, yesterday on "N1" they call us cattle, now Zoran Zivkovic, probably from some luxury apartment or maybe from some resort in Turkey or who knows where from the white world, calls us sheep and says: "You see these SNS sheep and SPS sheep, they currently replicate each other at the session, in violation of the Rules of Procedure again. They're acting crazy and stupid. “So we’re crazy, stupid, we’re sheep, we’re credentials, he’s a very smart man, he’s just like Dragan Gilas, he’s got his hand on a semi-literate man who bought a letter school in Macedonia at the time of the SFRY, that because he was killed by Prime Minister Djindjic with unfortunate political circumstances, he becomes Serbian Prime Minister, to get rich and insult us through Twitter this time.” By the way, Bosko Obradovic also called. He says: “I hear that the great hero, Aleksandar Martinovic, has found in the congregation today that I am illiterate and I have an anti-Serbian accent. “ I did not say that he had an anti-Serbian accent, but that he had an accent that was contrary to Serbian literary language. He didn't understand what I said. And he says: “It’s all without being able to answer him as he likes the great heroes of the SNS. It seems that the Megatrend affair is very painful and they have no solution to get out of it. ‘No ‘Megatrend’ affair. I thank you, colleague Orlic, there is no "Megatrend" affair. Nebojsa Stefanovic showed not only his diploma yesterday, but a complete record of his student record to journalists who had insight, and Bosko Obradović and how he has the opportunity to come to the National Assembly to face arguments, to see who has a valid diploma, who doesn't have a valid diploma, to see whose policy is better. But he prefers the Gilas and the School's money, after all, more than they earn from it than it is from an MP's salary. Now imagine, Bosko Obradovic, not only is he on the payroll of the National Assembly, he receives the salary as a National MP... (President: I thank you. ) Let me tell you, Mr. Milicevic, it's an important thing, I have an obligation as chairman of the Administrative Committee. (President: here you go. ) The Serbian Parliament pays Bosko Obradovic every month to rent an apartment in Belgrade, which is located on Dedinj, is not located in Borca, is not located in Kotež, is not in Grocko, but is located in Dedinj. So, he gets paid in the National Assembly, we pay him, i.e. The National Assembly pays him from his budget to rent an apartment on Dedinj, and of course, the man is on the payroll of Dragan Gilas, Solak, and is fighting for KIM, fighting for Serbia, fighting for the troubled citizens of Serbia in the same way that Janko Veseinovic is fighting. This guy from Dedinj, Janko Veselinović from the Croatian coast, Zoran Zivkovic, I don't know where he is right now, whether he's in a 200-square apartment, whether he's in Turkey, whether he's in the Bahamas, ask God where he is, in any case, they've robbed the people, while they've been in power to his hunches, they won't come to the National Assembly, they won't work, they call us sheep, crabs, illiterates, cattle, etc. Thank them for that, but Serbian citizens can see these days who are fighting for their interests, who is planning, who is not working and who is receiving for their unhappiness.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58849	Thank you. My colleague Martinovic, I have an obligation, first of all, as chairman, given that you have read a tweet relating to most of the MPs who are sitting in the hall today and who, responsibly, seriously and committedly want to do the work for which they have taken responsibility, that what is contained in that tweet is actually talking about the character of the one who wrote it. If any of these writers, let us call them that, thinks that the dignity of the Assembly has been violated in any way, it is their legitimate right to enter the hall and indicate the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Right on line, MP Marijan Risticevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58850	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you forgot, Mr. Martinovic, that the state of Bosca Obradovic gives far more. That's why he says to have a college, not to have a degree in college, because he has money not only of Gilasov, but of taxpayers' money. Today he earned 3,400 dinars. The apartment this Assembly pays him is an apartment owned, allegedly, by a friend of his. The apartment's on Santa, that's right. But you forgot three million and something a month that Bosko Obradovic receives because his party is parliamentary. Do you see? Is that meant for parliamentary party costs? Do you see that parliamentary party here? She's not here. The investigation, as far as I know, showed what I was saying, that Bosko Obradovic, in this way, in the course of the presidential campaign from the budget, pumped that money and money for the presidential campaign through fake entrepreneurial shops, fictitious, pumped and put it in his pocket. The payments were made to the corporate stores that they raised in cash and returned it to him. All owners of these companies were candidates from their lists or from the Dveri committees. In this way, the state is damaged by over 250,000 euros. That still seems to be true. He wants to show himself as a political victim, to say he's a victim. That's why it's one of the reasons he went to Dragan Gilas, because now, my God, as a great political opponent, if the state does anything to punish what's damaged, because the campaign's money needs to go back to the state budget, which he didn't do, because he pumped it up and put it in his pocket, and if anything the authorities do, he'll say that, well, he's a political victim and hence the big noise. As for Zoran Zivkovic, I will no longer comment on him. Not everyone's worth paying attention to. In the end, I will turn to members of the DS, their voters, to see who they voted for. Mr. Micunović has no courage at this age. Imagine that fear of Dragan Gilas? He does not have the courage to enter the congregation at this age, in which he said that only bayonets from such a congregation could be found in the bayonets. For one party to be democratic, it must be democratic inside. Is the current Democratic Party democratic within? It certainly isn't. The party is still called Democratic. I have nothing against the Democratic Party. I'm against what she's become. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58851	Thank you, colleague Rističević. The right to reply to Mr Ristic's presentation, MP Igor Becic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58852	Mr. Risticevic, we are such stupid, crazy and credentials Serbian citizens are choosing to join this National Assembly. President Vukic gets 60% of the vote, although he shows every day, bringing in the most significant statesmen in the world, looking for the most serious politicians who make decisions. Today, when Serbia is respected and respected, today when our word is heard and we can sit evenly at the table with the big ones, today we are stupid, crazy, illiterate and all that this quasi opposition says about us. Today I had the honour of speaking to the Ministry of Defense and pointing to the fact that the moment President Vukic became Secretary of Defense, we had one plane that could take off, and today the squadron is guarding our skies. We're buying from large combat helicopters today, participating in missions. Our army is prominent in the world. We buy missiles, PVO systems, everything we haven't done in the past during these thieves when they were in power. During that time, we cut off tanks, sold and destroyed rockets for a few dollars, because they wanted to destroy everything that was effective in defending the country. It was during these thieves, these intellectuals, and elites, and we who get in elections today and President Vukic, who shows every day that he is fighting to improve the quality of life of Serbian citizens, who work every day for what we want for the future of our children, they now, when they wake up at 1:00, at 14.00 p.m., go to "France" or "Madero" for lunch, then write some tweet and that's all they do for Serbian citizens. We will always speak in the National Assembly everything we do, everything we can, what we try to do. Maybe all of this isn't enough today, but we show every day and when the salary increases for the military, when military resources increase, when we build apartments for the security sector, when we enable and do everything for the better quality of life of Serbian citizens, that we are with them, unlike those who want to go to elections just to come up the street, with the money they have. They could not even enter this parliament that some who wish to be in this parliament, to represent their interests, did not with good, good, good pushing them into this parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58853	Thank you, Mr. Becic. Right on line, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58854	I thank you, Mr. Milicevic. Well, I had to react to what Zoran Zivkovic wrote on his Twitter account because I want Serbian citizens to hear what that so-called. The quasi elite thinks of the MPs who are doing their job safely. I am not angry when Zoran Zivkovic calls Vladimir Orlic, Acu Markovic, Marijan Risticevic, Marko Atlagic, me cattle, sheep, bitangs, scum, etc. We're, let's say, men, we're used to it and we're kind of more comfortable with it, but, look, Zoran Zivkovic, while he's not at his post, and he's getting paid as a folk MP, so tell me in which democratic state is that possible? Is that possible in Britain? Is that possible in Germany, France or Italy? Is it possible anywhere in any democratic country? So, while he is not in his workplace and receives the salary as if he were, he calls the sheep Dusica Stojković, Adriana Avramov, Mrs Vukojičić, Mrs Malusic and all these beautiful SNS women, who are in their workplace today and who were both at work yesterday and who have been in their place of work in all these months, are doing their job neatly, securely, honestly and nobody has offended them. He calls them sheep and then they pretend they're some elite and they're mad at Alexander Wolfich when he calls them a fake elite? Well, of course they're fake elites, of course the quasi are intelligence. Who really is a member of the elite, who really is an intellectual, can he call these beautiful women sheep? And he called them all sheep. Why? Because they don't sit around bars? Because they don't sit on rafts? Because they don't have 200 square-square apartments? Because they don't, like Dragan Gilas, only in real estate 25 million euros? Because they don't have two thousand squares of living space and space? We're sheep. We're cattle. We're bandits. We're cartilages. We're bots. We're sandwichers. We are, ask God what we are not. That's why it's good for Serbian citizens to hear this. And we're going to insist on this, because we want to expose those who think themselves elite, those who think themselves intellectuals, and in fact they're all the opposite. I will read you something from which you will see that the last one who has the right to ask any degree, including the diplomas of Nebojsa Stefanovic, is just Bosko Obradovic. Because they're in this so-called. The Alliance for Serbia has had a bit of a fight, they do not agree whether to boycott the elections, whether not to boycott, whether to return to the assembly, whether not to return, who to return, who not to return, had some conflicts. So, one of the coalition partners asks the following - Ask your most important coalition partner Boška, he thinks of Boško Obradovica, what kind of school of traffic has his one of the most important officials, Borko Pushic, who is president of the executive board and member of the presidency? You know for a fact that there is only one in Serbia, i.e. at the Leader. His Borko never set foot in that college, but he doesn't mind being introduced as a graduate traffic engineer and predicating to positions where it's a condition for you to be a graduate traffic engineer. He bought a degree in some crazy traffic route somewhere within Serbia, which has nothing to do with the Belgrade Traffic Faculty. There, Serbian citizens, such people are asking the question of the validity of the degree of Neboja Stefanovic. In time, while Sasa Jankovic was a presidential candidate, or predicated to be a presidential candidate, they asked us to show our diplomas here when I brought Alexander Vukic's index, they all jumped alive to the Serbian Progressive Party and said, "Why do you have the right to bring Alexander Vukic's index?" Well, because I'm proud of being led by a party man who was one of the best law school students and who within four years in an extremely fair way, learning, working hard, finished that college with an average score of over nine. Now I'm asking, where are they with their diplomas? Where are they with their indexes? (President: I thank you. ) The one who presents himself as a professor of Serbian language and literature is derived from the modern Serbian language seven, I think it was given to him, and he says he is acting as a doctor of science. Someone must have given him that week, as soon as a man doesn't understand and can't express himself in Serbian literary language.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58855	My colleague Martinovic, since you have mentioned the content of tweets again, and I, as chairman, have always the obligation to protect the dignity of all colleagues and colleagues, whether they come from the ranks of the position or opposition, with everything you have stated, must add that we are legitimately elected representatives of citizens who today, as well as the previous days, are discussing alternatives to how we can reach as high-quality legal solutions as possible in the best interests of citizens. And you know very well that the lack of political power and lack of political influence lead to this kind of, unfortunately, primitiveism. According to the amendment, Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58856	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, fellow MPs and MPs, the position of article 9 of the 59th of the proposed Law on Trade is a very logical trail of things, since it prescribes that sublegal acts will be adopted that will in the nearest way regulate all previous views. What I'm trying to say is that the SNS is proud to debate all the legal proposals in this tall home of the National Assembly. The Serbian Progressive Party is proud to see Alexander Vukic, who works day and night, hardworking, hardworking and loyally, for the benefit of Serbian citizens and for the benefit of the Republic of Serbia. The Serbian Progressive Party is proud that we are here to express the views and opinions of the citizens, who sent us to this high house, and those on our right, MPs who haven't come to the National Assembly for months, should be ashamed and ashamed, above all, in front of those who voted for them. I hope these people now know that they are still robbing them, because they receive their wages from the budget, rob and those citizens who voted for them, as well as all the other citizens, because they receive their salaries neatly every month and continue to rob the people neatly. They don't know about another political idea. Their basic political idea is to rob the people, live on the back of the people and fill their own pockets. It is shown by their leader Dragan Gilas, who made about 500m euros worth of wealth during the government's exercise. Full support for Deputy Prime Minister and Interior Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic in gathering all the evidence that will reveal all the marifets and all the robberies of Dragan Gilas. One of his first robberies, where he began to crush millions of euros, is certainly to reality the Big Brother programme. It's a speculatory contract, a different contract, of course, he couldn't make up, but only a speculatory contract, because in that contract he agreed that the Big Brother facility was built for the children's stay. There he earned the first million, today he is a media tycoon, along with his media pal Solak, who bought a Maltese passport for 650 euros to avoid paying taxes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58857	Thank you, colleague Jevtović Vukojičić. Dear colleagues and colleagues from the SNS parliamentary group, just one piece of information. The SNS parliamentary group no longer has the remaining time to discuss this united debate, but the president of a parliamentary group or an authorised representative has 14 minutes left. We're going back to work. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 61st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 65th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Professor Vladimir Marinkovic submitted to Article 67 of the amendment, with correction. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Natasha Sp, submitted to Article 67 of the amendment. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the people's messenger Natasha Sp. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58858	Mr. Minister, the inspection and inspection laws were adopted, the amendments to that law last year in the National Assembly, and we got phantom inspectors, I say so jargonically, or ghost inspectors, call them whatever you want. Anyway, it's now official people who incognito come to cafes, restaurants, shops, look, ask, say they're being notified, filmed, now I really don't have time to quote these members of that law, and on that basis, in their next move, when they get some kind of irregularity, they come to the point that, only then, as a competent state inspection body, with their full legitimacy, they close that facility. The Serbian Radical Party was against the adoption of the law, such powers and such a method of work of the inspectors, and we warned you there would be numerous abuses. That's hard to prove. You know, when one official represented by the ministry and supervised by an inspection gives the legitimacy to do so, he will normally say that he is right forever, and in practice he has proved himself, and later in certain court disputes, which individual legal entities have led against, with such powers, where there is also a certain degree of corruption, that they were wrong, but what kind of vision when, in the Kopalnik at the beginning, 19 objects closed in the course of the tourist season. We are in favour of issuing, of course, fiscal accounts, that everyone works in accordance with the law, but we are explicitly opposed to closing facilities for such a type of offence. The penalties you have prescribed here, I have the amendment in one position, and later my colleagues will talk about the second, higher levels of punishment, but this range is completely, totally unacceptable, but hard and affordable. Usually these entrepreneurs and those legal entities, who come into this situation, now have under this Law of Infractions, which has also been amended, and which is in the function of making agreements with the Tax Administration and with the Judge for Infractions, that this is paid for by some wars, etc. So, in many cases in Serbia, here's for sure, that's the case in Kragujevac where I live and in Novi Sad, Belgrade... (President: Thank you, colleague. Here, I'll finish. In view of that, Mr. Milicevic, if you'd been tolerant... (President: I'm always tolerated. )......................................................................................................... When certain replicas lasted seven, eight minutes, I'm talking about a very important question for people who live out of it today, so they're watching their market tonight, can kids buy bread to eat, train them, etc... (President: I'm always tolerated. Here you go. )......................................................................................................... Let me finish. So, Mr. Minister, besides being brought in to lead the so-called so-called. goods accounting, it's a newspaper by the set of financial laws of Sinishi Mali, and we've also put a note on it, so these small shops are now run by bookkeeping as d.o.o. Not really, but something like that. You've prescribed penalties you can't charge, because he's going to close it permanently, such cases are very common both in villages and in cities, rather than in paying for this kind of punishment. It was better to accept the amendment of the SRS, it would be more effective for the state and for those people. Of course, to enable them to object to the possible haughtiness of the inspectors and the solutions they get, that they can pay it to certain wars and thus make it possible for them to have a more liberal approach somehow to them who start this job to work, not to break the law. So, the application of workers, it's really something that must be mandatory, as well as the issue of fiscal accounts, but the way that every inspector will do it, you'll agree with me, can lead to a number of abuses. If there's a restaurant in Kragujevac, it doesn't matter which one, closed because of a disagreement of 300 grams of ground plasma cookies used to make shakes, which are refreshing potions, and one such facility is closed at one point for 15 days, next time again, for the third time, it's always something like that... Give me something bigger. In doing so, one such facility, for example, has 18 registered workers, but a method has been found. One can of coke is missing, now not to banalize further, but there are many such examples – one bun, fried, etc. Please don't put people in a situation where they're shaking when they're putting the key to opening that store, when they're moving into that business, and when they dare to do something private at all, when they can't already get the famous state job.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58859	Thank you. Comrade Eagle, would you like a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58860	Mrs. Jovanovic, he does not need to be distracted from the idea that there are situations in which someone is open, flagrantly going to pay the fine, because he does not care, he believes that the amount that he will pay is not important, much more important to him is what he intends to do, even if it is illegal. There's a brightness to that. So, even when it comes to different economic practices, but also when it comes to, look, anything else. This report, which we talked about today, BIRN or KRIK, I don't distinguish them, it's all the same to me, but those who belong to this political, criminal, tycoon opus by Dragan Gilas, his ranks, in which they published a confession that Dragan Gilas himself gave about having only 25m euros in real estate. In the follow-up to that report, which his rules made to you, I have no doubt that what they stated is true, it can only be more than that, something that Gilas wouldn't admit, this is a confession himself, he's standing up for a dozen different punishments for bahato, I have to call it that, behavior, because when someone deliberately, consciously violates limitations, drives too fast, drives an expensive car, and he does it from month to month, year to year, he does it completely consciously. He saved a man, nothing means anything to him, whether he's going to pay 50,000, 100,000 dinars, he doesn't care if he has hundreds of millions in his accounts. It's one example for people to behave like that, completely open, completely conscious. What's more interesting to me today is when someone, for example, wants to act in a certain way, but he can't do himself, apparently, preventing himself from introducing certain restrictions. For example, Zoran Zivkovic, who looks at us through television, would obviously talk to the head about how eager he is to come to the O.R. and say something, but he can't. We know he wants it very badly. He's saying it here at press conferences, but it doesn't seem like he's allowed by Dragan Gilas. Or, Bosko Obradovic, who via Twitter, now the phone he's talking to us, eats from the pain, says – I want to answer them, I want to answer them, but I'm not in a position. I don't know why he's not in a position, unless he's banned himself, or if his fear of Master Gilas is so great that he can't get into this room, but we're here and, as we've been here since the beginning of today, we'll certainly be as long as it's done today. We will, of course, be in the next working days. Whenever Bosko Obradovic wants to go in, he gets a chance at a replica right away. It's a kind of promise on my part, if you like, but there seems to be something more important. Fear's bigger there. This Gilas, who has decided to act arrogantly because he can pay everything because he thinks he can buy all the money, as he bought DS, Boška Obradovica, his Dveri, then those fake environmentalists, the green ones, who I don't know what they're calling now, apparently thinks he can buy absolutely anything in this world. For example, Zivkovica, Obradovica and Dvori... (President: I thank you, colleague Orlic. I'm done. It obviously turned out to be true, but there's one thing money doesn't buy. It's political credibility, it's the memory of the people, it's people's trust. It must be earned and it must be won in the elections. Since I can't get there, they've solved it, they want to do it in some other way, but it's all a dead end job, as convincing as Bosco's discussions in the National Assembly today. Has anyone heard from him today? I'm not.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58861	Thank you. The word has a proposing representative, Minister Zoran Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58862	I'd like to tell you more about what you said, what you suggested, that is, your objection when it comes to this member of the law. First, from personal experience, I'm telling you because in the vault where I am, there's a labour inspectorate who, as part of an inspection on global and co-operation with other inspections, is very successful, after the law's been passed, trying to put in order everything that's happened in the past, that he's just sanctioning and that it doesn't exist anymore. When it comes to control, it has to be rigorous and has to be equal to everything, and it's not true that the inspection, I don't know, is about 300 grams. Something, closes. When it comes to fiscal bills, tax inspections have repeatedly been warned, repeatedly punishable, before closing. So, someone who multiples commits that kind of offence only then closes his company. I think it shows responsibility on his part, because this law is, I say, very clear, and it clearly defines what he needs and how he should behave to make it all in accordance with the law. I mean, if they didn't work like that, they'd be absurd to all those who work in accordance with the law, and they'd say that it's better if, like counterpart Orlic said, that it's better to work past the law and pay the fine, because we also have tycoons of some who work and that, in case they never get close to the company, they'd pay the fines indefinitely, and that's how they disabling the general, whole system and the meaning of the law. When it comes to the Ministry, I will tell you one thing, it is that the fines as a labour inspection in 2017 have been charged, if we had charged, means at a medium amount, and that the court has made decisions at a medium amount, the state of Serbia and the budget of the Republic of Serbia would have been richer by three billion dinars. If we were charging for the highest one, it would be four, if we were minimum, it would be about two. We've charged a little less than 200 million, which means that the efficiency of everything shows that most of it goes out of date, most of it somehow gets stuck in court, most of it goes past it, and what message does it send? He's sending a message that it's better to work past the law and get through better. We want to send a completely different message. We've had a series of meetings and with the Department of Justice, we can't influence the court, but we ask them to just be more efficient in their work and work just to bring order to our country. What happened before, and what happened in 2000 to 2012, is what we're talking about and we're trying to convince, it's part of an ugly past, and everybody remembers it, and it turns out they don't want to come back today. Everyone's for the law to be implemented today, to be the same for everyone. I'm really sorry that in the course of the season, when the inspection comes out, things like that happen, but these things happen where there's a violation of the law right now. Let me just tell you one more thing, it's one new practice that exists, it's, say, in inspections, we have internal control, and very often the inspector sends internal control that controls those who are doing the inspection. It never happens that an inspection from Belgrade is inspecting Belgrade, always someone comes from the interior, which works in Belgrade, and goes from Belgrade to the inside, and so is random. Back-up inspection again from another place, and he's watching this last one work. So, everyone controls everyone, and all in the interest of law enforcement, that all those who work in accordance with the law are encouraged to continue to work in accordance with the law, to hire more people, to pay taxes and contributions for them, because ultimately, it is the benefit of all of us and the benefit of all the citizens who one day should enjoy their pension. That's why we appeal to citizens wherever there is a violation of the law to report it, because the labour inspection is required to come out, and all other inspections. Now we have a combined number of phones, free, 0800300307 where all inspections are in the state, and on each of these anonymous or anonymous inspections, the inspection is required to come out, and to run statistics and keep a note about what feedback is. Another important item, unlike the past, if you sign up and report someone, and you tell that one in Kragujevac, or anywhere, or you report another company, then there's an inspection, any one of them, she's if you've introduced yourself to your name and left your data, and she's obliged to let you know what she's done there. That's one news.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58863	I thank Minister Djordjevic. Right to replicate National MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go, colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58864	Mr. Minister, first I have to work with my colleague, Orlic, so I'm going to relate to what you said. Comrade Orlic, it is not only a problem that Dragan Gilas is a man of his wealth in an against the law. Both he and Bosko Obradović and Vuk Jeremic, if you look closely and Zivkovic are destructive. It's an extremely destructive personality. But what's interesting is that you, here, spoke today several times Mr. Martinovic, we launched a procedure in which Dragan Gilas was enriched. Did you initiate the procedure to determine how he got rich and Zoran Zivkovic? He keeps talking about it, Marian, and we know that from one of the average local politicians there, remember the mayor at the time of the sanctions, who called on people to account for electricity in those barrels he set on fire in the square there, and later people had these consequences. So it's about the people you were supposed to prosecute, that is, the prosecution of Mr. Ministers who are competent to do the job. We have repeatedly moved and asked you this question – do you know where Zagorka Dolovac is, the republican prosecutor who is responsible for such events and not only that, but those destructives tried and the coup two months ago in Serbia did not react at all. Then you can't ask an ordinary man in a village, in a small town, in major cities to shake strictly and have that fear of state authorities and that again I repeat to you no one from the SRS has ever advocated that they don't give up an account or that they don't report employees, even on the contrary, but we've asked for relief from the state and that these people are employed and that these penalties that are prescribed are lower. If you look at this amendment and the amendments that follow, we have made the range so that it is relatively acceptable for today's market and for the ability to operate these entrepreneurial actions. And when you have in the further part of these penalties a provision where the highest is over a million dinars, Mr. Minister, that's the sum of seven digits. It can pay for this tycoon and jilas thief, but a simple man and a company that may be taking credits for crafts, which are hard to do because he has and doesn't charge some bills and invoices with his creditors, it's really hard. Believe me, since I have spoken to both the competent and the employees of the Tax Administration in Kragujevac, every year over 3,000 people who are entrepreneurs, business owners apply for a reprogramme of their debts. It's not abnormal so it doesn't pay in time, and I'm especially, busy for myself to be able to, but if you get into that very, very tight circuit, this one owes this, that one, that one, you don't have a chance to do it all the time. Give me a minute, be tolerant. So, let the law be respected, inspectors do their job, but not to be boastful in any case, but you say you have an inspection, you don't, and you yourself said you and Minister Mali and Ruzic, enough inspectors to cover Serbia's entire territory for certain inspection tasks. You need to be aware of the situation of all these companies' contracts, how many employees are in service, in cafes, in restaurants, in stores, it's a large number of people, that once the owners of these small enterprises have to pay their employees and taxes and contributions, they only get something they can see after really two or three years of starting their business, and that's why we asked for these fines to be in the range of 30,000 to 100,000 dinars, because it's a lot of money. Every accountant in every city that has a few of them or are enterprises or dozens of them to run bookkeeping will tell you that they will rather charge the state than whoever has it and who, of course, commits such a violation that there is less punishment than the one who puts a lock in the door, and then only owes him enough to block the account and to shut down that store or that company.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58865	I thank my colleague Jovanovic. You are mentioned by your colleague Orlic during the presentation of your colleague Jovanovic you have a basis for replication, and you want your colleague Martinovic as president of the parliamentary group. First of all, you're the president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58866	I thank you, Mr. Milicevic. Mrs Natasa Jovanovic mentioned here Dragan Dilas, leader of the Alliance for Serbia and Serbia's largest tycoon. I would like to inform the citizens of Serbia that Mr. Dragan Gilas has spoken to the public today. It is not enough that, yesterday, Nebojsa Stefanovic, a concrete academicist Ljubisa Rakic, president of the Megatrend University Council and member of SANU, showed not only a diploma, but a complete student record of Nebojsa Stefanovic. Today, Dragan Djilas, who did not have enough of it, claimed that Nebojsa Stefanovic had no degree, so when we showed her diploma, they said she had a good degree, now let's see when she signed up and whether she had a valid student record. Well, when we showed the November file, with all the photographs of Nebojja Stefanovic, from 1995, today Dragan Djilas, pretending not to see it all, as neither sees the construction site in Serbia, as neither sees new jobs, nor sees new highways, as he does not see all the good things done by the government led by the SNS and what the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic, today Dragan Djilas says, among other things, about academics Ljubisa Rakic, President of the Megatrend Council, that he is a disgrace to SANU. So Ljubisa Rakic, as a regular professor of the University and as an academic, a regular member of SANU, is a disgrace to SANU, according to Dragan Djilas, only because he showed a complete student record of Neboja Stefanovic. Now I ask Dragan Djilas, what proof do we offer him to make sure Nebojsa Stefanovic has a valid degree and that he has graduated from college in a regular manner? I asked the question today, and we will continue to insist, on the validity of Bosko Obradovic's diploma, because I doubt that someone could have been in a regular way to finish Serbian language and literature, and not in Serbian can express themselves, and what about this president of the executive board and member of the presidency, Borko Puskic, who apparently has a purchased degree in some fake Traffic Faculty, who knows where, inside Serbia. And, yes, what Mr. Risticevic noted well, I would very much like to see the diploma of former Prime Minister Zoran Zivkovic, who joined the campaign against Neboja Stefanovic. Let's see this degree by name of Zoran Zivkovic, see what a man is by calling, where he graduated from college or where he graduated from that high school, how much he studied, when he enrolled in that college or that higher school, which he studied with and where the professors, etc.? Well, let's see some of the other diplomas. There are among them who have become rich during the former regime, who have studied for 12 years. Has Goran Jesic, who has also come to the diploma in a suspicious way. Well, and this Dragan Djilas, you remember him, Mrs Jovanovic, was the first time I saw him on TV in March 1991, when he was the leader of that November protest after 9 March, when he spoke with Slobodan Milosevic. He studied who knows how much, went to the Czech Republic, allegedly earned 74 thousand euros there, in 2004, became a member of the DS, became president, or director, that was what it was called, the National Office of the President of the Republic, became minister of the national investment plan, became mayor of Belgrade, after which he became owner of the DS, buying out DS debts, according to the Vojvodine Development Bank. The man is rich for, some say, 500m euros, some for 720m euros. That's Serbia's dear citizens, the budget of Montenegro. This Dragan Djilas, I finish, today says Ljubisa Rakic is an intellectual, a true intellectual, a regular member of the Serbian Academy of Science and Arts, a disgrace to SANU.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58867	Thank you, colleague Martinovic. Here you go, colleague Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58868	You asked Mrs. Jovanovic, what is the matter with the examination of our knowledge, and regarding Dragan Gilas and all sorts of procedures, mechanisms, marifetluke, which allowed this man to get abnormally rich, but be careful, not in some normal conditions, on some normal occasions, by doing something with his firms, anything, and so on, but while he was at the most responsible political functions being party, which is republican, which in the city of Belgrade. So, before that, he had nothing, and then he became intolerably rich. What's interesting about what I wanted to tell you today? New moments in that story, they're about our new knowledge. So it takes safe time for the authorities to examine these things, if they need to do it seriously, we think that's the only thing that's right. But there's information that literally appears on a daily basis. We used to, it seems to me, two days ago, go public with completely new data, with data that didn't seem to me, we were never before known to our public. With everything we've talked about here and what's in the reports of Verice Barac, I don't think there was any data that showed plastics what he looked like. The business relationship between Dragan Gilas and Telekom Srbija was right at the time when Dragan Gilas was in the most responsible positions in the Republic of Serbia. So, I think that's the first time we've shown it these days. At that time, we said that around 30m euros totaled the money turnovers achieved by Gilas's "Direct Media", which was once worth only $10,000, and then began to spin millions and tens of millions. Its dependent companies and Telekom Srbija, therefore a state-owned company, are citizens of Serbia concerned, not any of their private money, in two directions. When you look at how it went, it's really fantastic arrangements. First, there is the engagement of the "Direct Media" and its dependent companies by Telekom, but also by Telekom's companies in the region. That's not what Veronica Barach wrote about. You know what she said in her report, and if Telekom were concerned, she said – Telekom funded, sponsored "Big Brother" in 2009, so that show programme introduced by Dragan Gilas, but that she was dealing with Gilas' transactions and relations with other companies in this country. As for Telekom, he directly hired both Ovejsn and the "Direct Media" from 2004, be careful, since Dragan Gilas set foot on stage and on the stage politically in Serbia, by 2007, about four and a half million euros went to those companies. Then, Telekom's companies in the region, so Telekom in Montenegro and Telekom in BiH, hires dependent companies, again "Direct Media" and pays them seven million plus 360, etc., when it is added to over eightm euros, it went to these services in this way. Also, if there is no end here, worth 17m euros, now the "Direct Media" companies are taking, but at privileged prices, marketing space from telecom firms, receive a discount of more than fivem euros. So the discount that nobody looks like ever got is neither will they ever get. They got it then, I'm talking about the period from 2007 to 2012 and only in that transaction are they good for that amount of discount. Only for so long have they been able to overcome the market conditions, as Gilas put 11 million dinars in his pocket with one move, except that he bought out his party's debt, and then he took it further. So here and here, at the beginning good for over five million just on behalf of the discount, and worth 17 million after the market sold out further. When you add that up, it's over 30m euros and that's our last piece of information. Who knows, Mrs. Jovanovic, how many things like this are left. Who knows how many examples we will find both Marijan Risticevic and Mr Jovanovic and any SRS MP. These are the things that, when they get together, I think they're so big and so important that they absolutely demand our interest as MPs, but I mean the state authorities. It's our responsibility. Among other things, it is an explanation why these illiterate political ants, such as Bosko Obradovic, who are not even familiar with the content of their own diploma work and who do not know whether to say acting, I end up, today they all end up, according to the rule of Dragan Djilas. There is no place to build up for you from the political periphery and from Serbia's political garbage other than Dragan Gilas, obviously because that man has enough money to pay you, or that their services can be maintained. Here's how these couples got here.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58869	Thank you, colleague Orlic. Honorable Members of Parliament, now in accordance with Article 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm giving a break. We'll be back in 15 hours and 15 minutes. Thank you. [[after breaks]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. The 68th Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? National MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 69th amendment. Here you go, colleague Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58871	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have also intervened on this part of the Bill on Criminal Provisions, and we have reduced the range of fines, specifically in article 69, which is provided for in the range of 50,000 to 500,000 dinars, we have replaced the fine by 30,000 to 200,000, because that is certainly a more appropriate solution. First, the range of penalties prescribed in article 69 is large and the difference between minimum and maximum penalties is 10 times. This at the beginning gives great opportunities for the development of corruption, as it remains at the will of the law enforcement authority to decide which amount of fines will be given to the offender. We're proposing a reduction in the sentence at all, and that reduces the range. The person subject to the application of the criminal penalty shall be, in accordance with Article 25. The bill of trade, mostly persons who have no other means of providing any job, so they are forced, to feed themselves and their family, to deal with street trade, where they are exposed to different kinds of humiliation and harassment, primarily by a municipal militia which has been given too much authority by this new law, so that they can behave even more boastfully than they have ever been before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58872	Thank you, colleague Nikolic. On the 70th Amendment is the afternoon MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 70th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Would you like a word, Mr. Ristichevich? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58873	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is about a misdemeanor. Someone here has advocated the punishment of all those who say that a genocide has been committed in Srebrenica. Of course there was no genocide there. The Serbs are victims of genocide. The Serbs did not commit genocide. But I know who did. The Serbs didn't drop an atomic bomb on Hiroshima and Nagasaki. Genocide is a non-selective destruction of a particular group. I know a country or an alliance of states that did it. I also know of an alliance of states that almost wiped out one human race – Indians. I know about this alliance of states. I know they're unfair. I know they committed many violations, violated international peace. But I must respect their economic and military strength, at least while they have it. I have to respect, so I don't get another 22,000 tons of bombs, although it's already harder to do. But these violations here are about trade in media services. There's David Petreus, head of the CIA. Did you know that the SBB advisor was US Ambassador Cameron Manter? Then why are you surprised about the privileged position on the market, then why are you surprised that the European Commission is taking their side? Was David Petreus a military commander, Mr. Martinovic, you know it a little better than I do. Here, and Mr. Markovic is smiling mysteriously. I believe he knows a lot about Gilas' intentions, too. (President: Thank you. ) The electronic media regulatory body is being created dead, and that is why Gilas is looking for REM. Give him REM, the media, the commercials, and he won't ask you for anything. Gilas's struggle for power by violent means is a struggle to take REM because REM doesn't do its job. If REM was doing its job, he would turn off, order the SBB, which is its authority, to rule out cross-border channels, fake, virtual, fake cross-border channels, pirate channels that take bread from domestic media and domestic journalists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58874	Thank you. The right to replica has Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go, Dr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58875	Here, Mr. Risticevic, we talked today, and not just today, about the campaign against the President of the Republic of Serbia, against the government of the Republic of Serbia, against certain MPs who are part of the ruling coalition. I am reading on the N1 portal right now, which is a 15.18-hour news, says that you, Vlad Orlic, me, Aca Markovic and some other MPs, says "we are doing a new target of media and NGOs in the Serbian Parliament". So the N1 continues its campaign against SNS and its coalition partners. I do not know in which way we have been targeting, except that we are asking each day a question – in which state it is possible that one television says for itself that it is cross-border, and in fact has its headquarters in New Belgrade, and 24 hours of campaigning against the President of the Republic, against the Government, against the Serbian Parliament, against the state of Serbia, mocking the MPs, organising shows in which MPs are called cattle, etc. As far as NGOs are concerned, I have not mentioned today any NGOs, unless they count on the BIRODI organisation, which says to themselves that it is an independent news-searching house, and since October 2016 it is part of a broad political organisation called the "Citizen front", and there is, among other things, the initiative "We do not strangle Belgrade", those who wore the yellow duck, are those who oppose the construction of "Biograda on the water", and these are those who do not hide that the opponents of Aleksandr Vukic and SNS are open. Now, what do they expect? That we play clay pigeons here, to keep quiet, not to say a single word, just because they have declared themselves free and independent media. They are neither free nor independent media. First, they violate the current regulations of the Republic of Serbia. Secondly, these are political organisations leading an open fight against Alexander Vukic and the SNS, and as long as the meetings of the Serbian Parliament are held, we will fight against such ones. We have nothing against journalists, but against politicians who have disguised themselves as journalists, our task is to demasque them and present them to the citizens of Serbia as they are. As opposition, as political opponents, as people, who wage an open political war against our party, against the president of the Republic and against the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58876	Thank you, Dr. Martinovic. Right on the line, Marijan Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58877	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, recently on this television that complains about the threat of freedom of the media, recently hosted a journalist under the pretext. Why in the name of the quote? Because it was a journalist and owner of an unregistered portal. So if the electronic portal isn't a medium, then that person's not a journalist either. If that's the medium, it's not registered in the media register. You get into the APR and you find that this medium isn't registered. She's been on this TV that's also not registered, you get into the APR media register, it's gone. You enter the register of electronic media, with REM N1 television, there is no "New S", there are TVs that fiercely, not only criticize, but sometimes insult, invent, etc. You can't sue that medium. I have a memo, in these files, their lawyer who on one lawsuit, a certain gentleman, says, we can't be sued, we don't run in the APR registry, and we're not registered in REM as a media service provider, REM doesn't do its job to work, they would have SBB shut down fake cross-border channels, so Gilas is going to be against the changes in REM and that's his main goal of keeping the money, and that's why he's fighting for power, in fact fighting to gain power in REM. Furthermore, I have nothing against N1 television or Nova, but will Jugoslav Cosic explain to me that he is leading his shows from Luxembourg, that they are registered in Luxembourg. First, he said the program is being broadcast from Slovenia. However, the Slovenian regulator replied that this is not true, that N1 television is not registered in Slovenia and that it does not re-route the programme in Serbia from there. Well, then it was found to be from Luxembourg. Will he then, says he broadcasts his shows from Luxembourg, whether to tell me that on "New" Olja Bećkovic broadcasts and runs her show from Luxembourg, whether to tell me that Ivan Ivanovic is also doing it with "New S" TV from Luxembourg. That's just not true. Let Jugoslav Ćosic do whatever he wants, but first register in Serbia as an electronic medium and then complain about press pressures if they exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58878	Thank you, Mr. Ristichevich. Right on the line, Mr. Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58879	I thank the chairman. He says, Mr. Risticevic, I smiled mysteriously. I did smile because you're right about what you said in your two recent reports, especially when it comes to the part where Gilas wants complete control and when it comes to REM and of course wants complete control, just the kind of control over the media he had at the time he was in power in Serbia. You well, Mr. Risticevic, remember that time and that media darkness in the true sense of that word. What today, that so-called. The opposition has at its disposal, when it comes to media space, it is incomparably more than the SNS had when we were in the opposition. I'll remind you, Mr. Risticevic, that the SNS had no space in any single media while we were in opposition. We had a symbolic space on one radio, it was a Fox radio. The only place a SNS representative could show up at that time was a Fox radio, and I mean it a few times a week, but we managed to get to the citizens by working hard, and we went door-to-door. We've done everything today that those who resent us some kind of media darkness don't do. You know, they hate and they hate to go around Serbia, and if they go door to door, they don't know how to do it. They've never worked, nor will they ever work, for them it's a complete unknown, and that's why they'll never come to power. When it comes to N1 television and the campaign being conducted for days against SNS, against Alexander Vukic, the Serbian Government, the SNS MP, so you saw a show last night... . (Marian Risticevic: I wasn't watching. You haven't missed anything in particular. Five of some like-minded people gathered to analyze the speeches of the MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Now I'm asking the question, who's really targeting who here? Whoever draws a target at the head or what they like to say to them or to us. When they mount different television attachments, when they rip out of context whole speeches, whole sentences, and it shows in the way it suits them, then they don't wonder if they're actually drawing a target on our foreheads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58880	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. I have the right to a replica now, Marian Risticevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58881	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Markovic, Mr. Martinovic, I rarely look at that channel. I'll just try to list which media is controlled by Dragan Gilas and the opposition. We don't control any, even RTS is more fond of them than we are. I don't even mind that. You certainly know that there is a TV "NovaS" that has legally taken the first channel on SBB that was to be legally assigned to RTS 100, which I think is more agreeable to than we do. But, my God, their right to think differently, but the law must be respected. On the next channel is N1 television or vice versa. So they did it against the law. They are not legally registered as media in Serbia and they are complaining of a media scene in Serbia, for the freedom of the media in Serbia where they are so free that they are not registered. About Sundays "Nin", "Nunnik", "Time", what else is there, almost all of them, "New Magazine" and so on. From the daily press, "Today", "Blic". When I open "Blic", I'm a media pet, only in a negative light. Since I don't have my own media or journalists when I type into Google my name and name there I get "Blic" thinks that I'm more dangerous than Andrija Artuković, I don't know what I did to them, but if it's about targetting, then "Blic" and their media like nature have targeted me safely. Then what's the problem? When they have so many printed and electronic media. The problem seems to be in the election. For them democracy is coming to power through force, and dictatorship is coming to power by election. They insist on it. In addition to this desire to come by force to power, they say – not freedom of the media and so on. Which media isn't available when they work here completely unregistered in the APR, they're not registered anywhere. We can't get an answer. They will try, they think democracy is an import imperial product and that it should be won by force, and that is why Gilas would prefer that those I said were inserted into two atomic bombs, to throw perhaps a third at Serbia and to finish the job with us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58882	The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Right on the line. Here you go, colleague Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58883	Very brief chairman. In addition to the opposition in Serbia having incomparably more funds and media space, we can count. So, "N1", "New", then, various local televisions, for example, "Sabac", you did not mention that, Mr. Risticevic. That's where the shows that predicate for vulgarity are organized. One of them leads, he presents himself as a writer, I think his last name is Vidojkovic, presents himself as a writer and is known for being able to cast at least 10 swearings like that in one dictionary, as a minimum. You know, he's a member of that elite, that cultural elite, that intelligence, so probably as an elite, he thinks it's something that should be so. So, in one sentence, the ten most vulgar curses, you throw out like you're saying out of your sleeve. Then, you mentioned yourself a few weeks ago and "Nin" and "Time" and "The Sunday" and that new magazine we have here and "Today", which has long ceased to be a daily in the right sense of that word, but one thing, let me say, newsletter, messenger of the Alliance for Serbia and we have social networks. So, at a time when the SNS was in opposition, when we were fighting for voter favor, when we were struggling to reach every citizen from door to door, we were not present with the SNS programme, we were unable to count on social networks to the extent that are present today in the everyday life of all Serbian citizens. In addition to social networks, what's symptomatic here, the most monstrous accusations, the most monstrous insults we endure daily, on these very media that we listed and none of them are missing. They're talking about some kind of censorship, some non-freedom, some suffocation of the media, and none of them got a lawsuit, none of them ended up in jail, no one's head hair is missing. So, I'm asking you, Mr. Risticevic, what kind of censorship is that? What kind of media darkness is that? What kind of asphyxiation and oppression of freedom of the media when none of them are missing from their heads on the most monstrous accusations and insults we literally endure every day.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58884	Thank you, colleague Markovic. The word is Marijan Rističević. Here you go. Right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58885	Mr. Markovic, Martinovic, gentlemen of the Radicals, I offered myself yesterday to Jugoslav Cosic to come to his show, not to think that I would target, to come to his show at the headquarters of his television, only on condition that it would be in the headquarters of his television, so that I could see that Luxembourg too, to see up close to Luxembourg, because he first said it was happening in Ljubljana, the following said it is not true, then give me an answer that is Luxembourg. I was just about to see that Luxembourg and come to the duchess. I think the Duke would look forward to seeing me as a duke. So, I just decided to leave... However, Yugoslavia's Cosic is calling me. Then what's the problem? I'm going to Luxembourg, he's broadcasting a show, which is being broadcast in Serbia at the same time. So it is not forbidden to re-emission from Luxembourg or from any country in Europe to re-emission the programme in Serbia, provided it is broadcast simultaneously in a country where it is based and nothing is disputed, Mr. Cosic, nothing is disputed. Please invite this Luxembourg to your studio, because hosting New Belgrade is like driving in a stolen car. I've been twice, and I've seen that New Belgrade hasn't seen Luxembourg, and now I won't go, I've learned that they're not registered here, and that's why I tell all the participants on his show -- when you go on his show, it's like driving in a crime scene, in a stolen car. Do you know that's not registered? You know you're committing a felony if you're driving in a stolen car, you're committing a felony because you know it's been stolen, and if we go on television that's not registered here, which is supposed to be Luxembourg, and it's not there at the same time, it's not broadcasting, and there's no re-emissioning, so I can't go. What's their problem? Their problem seems, not only do these TVs exist, they're not satisfied, they want us to make people watch these TVs, make people read "Nin". "Time", "Wednesday", "Today", "Blic", to force them to do so first, and then to force them to vote for Gilas. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58886	Thank you. Alexander Seselj answered the line. You have no right. (Alexander Seselj: He mentioned me while he was talking.) ) I know, he mentioned you, but in a very positive context expressing with – gentlemen radicals. Do you understand? You'll have your chance. I really don't have any basis. Excuse me. The People's MP, Professor de Vladimir Marinkovic, submitted the amendment to Article 73. The government and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) Since we have completed the search on all amendments, I conclude the review of the bill in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and detail, the National Assembly will decide on the draft law in principle, detail and generality in the voting day. We move to the 4th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLIES OF THE ELECTRON TRADE You have received amendments submitted by the MPs: Marijan Rističević, Dubravko Bojic, Vladimir Marinković, Nikola Savic, Zoran Despotović, Sreto Perić, Natasa Sp. Jovanovic, Tomislav Ljubenovic, Milorad Mircic, Aleksandar Seselj, Filip Stojanovic and Vjerica Radeta. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 1st amendment. Would you like a word, colleague Risticevic? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58887	Of course. It's about the electronics store, but Mr. Seselj, it's not about that Gilas. I think you were entitled to a replica because I spoke very negatively of you, I was talking about the Duke of Luxembourg, and they let these televisions lie in that dukedom, so I think and I'm giving you a chance to say what you have. There is no bigger electronic store than the one performed by Gilas, Šolak, Vujošević etc. As much as they think I'm targeting them, I'm actually just telling the truth. If it's bad for Yugoslavia, that means it's good for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Why would domestic media, because of their trade, because of their driving in balconies, luxury planes, cars, where they swim in the sea of money, why would domestic electronic media, why should domestic media in the first place, why would the poor domestic journalists work for small money? Is it because of advertising, which is also against the law when it comes to unregistered media? These journalists don't have enough money to raise their salaries, by the way, to tell these who aren't here, that the average salaries of 500 euros have passed, we just have to look at how many individual employers... means statistics account for what is paid through contributions, but there are employers, unfortunately, who pay little in cash and when we make it into legal flows, I believe that the average wages will be higher. That part of black in cash is mostly in these fake cross-border televisions because these commercials go black, part goes to Cyprus, Malta, Luxembourg, and part of Gilas and Solak gets cash. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58888	Thank you. The word is Alexander Seselj. Right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58889	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. I believe that you, Mr. Risticevic, are telling us all of this from experience, since you were already a guest on TV "N1" and how much do I think, in Belgrade, right? Twice? (Marian Risticevic: Twice) So you liked it so much once, you had to come back another time. The problem here if there is, I really don't know how the registered TV "N1" in Serbia is, but now if you're talking about it in the National Assembly, and you belong to the ruling majority, then you yourself accept the guilt that there is no possible such regulation. From the position of government, therefore the ruling party, the SNS should all be subject to legal flows, to make sure no one breaks the law. Criticizing this from the National Assembly will not solve these problems. If an unregistered person works in Serbia performs any action, then the hair should probably react, apply the law, to all equally. Although the television you're talking about is private, they, of course, have the right to broadcast any program they want, to support this political party or that political party, no one can forbid it. The bigger problem is the public service situation, i.e. So-called Public service, or RTS. The RTS Management Board consists of some self-called experts, non-partisan experts who call themselves experts, and add an adjective not to the party, as if it were a mark of some quality or some level, as if it were something of particular importance and they then create a programme and a general public service policy in the way it will report, who will be there and how to report, transfer or comment on a particular event, and then, since it is financed by all the money of Serbian citizens, so they finance RTS, then we have a situation to see that RTS in its information programme shows a map of Serbia without KIM territory. This is where we have to solve the problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58890	Thank you, Comrade Seselj. The right to replica now has Marijan Risticevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58891	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Martinovic certainly knows, the KIM problem has been inherited. It was almost all lost. With great effort, this government has done that it is not and definitely not. I believe it will be partially resolved in our favor. I want to believe and I have that right. As for N1 television registration, it is not only N1 but also Nova S, 13 sports channels intended for the Serbian market and some other channels are registered in Luxembourg, over 20. Now, as a Democrats, I also have to respect the procedure, and the procedure says that REM, whether Mr Arsic and Martinovic, the Independent Regulatory Body takes care of electronic media and broadcasters, or cable systems, operators. That's what REM does. Mr. Arsic and Martinovic certainly know that. REM's composition was inherited, as well as Kosovo's problem. It needs to be complemented by three more members, but Gilas at the time made such a system that the composition of REM of nine members, gives, I don't know, the church of one, the province of one, KiM, our province, one, made a system that the political opportunities in the country couldn't affect the composition of REM, because if they were to paint the congregation relationship, then radicals and DSS would have half of REM at that time. That didn't suit his business either, so he created a system by which REM was built and there's a law and we can't make it so easily, but now Gilas is asking it not to go any further in his time, but to divide it half-government, half of the opposition, that's half of him, so he thinks if he gets another one and makes paralysis to leave the current state. Anyway, we can't dictate to an independent regulatory body, but we're asking him to respect the law and order an SBB operator to shut down fake cross-border channels, no matter what they call themselves and whatever they broadcast. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58892	Now the right to replica has a National MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58893	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, it is not something new in the world, even in developed democratic societies, that, under the pretext of freedom of the media, individual media is engaged in politics. Nor is it allowed, it is important that citizens know and recognize, and based on their political views to appreciate the truthfulness of their information. But here they appear, I think, just for Serbia some new features so-called. free journalism, which is, firstly, that Serbia is constantly trying to establish a fourth branch of government. The fourth branch of government should be so-called. independent bodies, i.e. certain regulatory bodies that have no foothold in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. They don't even have stops in the Constitutions of EU member states, but this is persistently trying to force us here in Serbia, and it is reportedly that these regulatory bodies, which were mainly created during the rule of Gilas, Pajtic, Boris Tadic and their other dikes, will retain the powers that they have in fact exercise power in the Republic of Serbia. The third characteristic of the so-called Independent journalism, which is already here with certain broadcasters such as TV N1, such as all these TVs listed by my colleague Marijan Risticevic, is that under the pretext of freedom of the media, tax evasion is being done. This is already a serious problem, because tax evasion is not going to suffer any democratic society. In America, you can get immunity and it even happened for serious crimes, but if those crimes made some income, and they didn't pay taxes, that immunity didn't protect them from paying taxes. I think that these broadcasters, which essentially provide services in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, should also be taxpayers for the service provided, according to the law in force in the Republic of Serbia. Otherwise, we are bringing into an unfavourable position those emitters who are truly fairly doing their work here in Serbia, fairly conveying information and paying taxes. In my opinion, it's not just that the tax is not paid, but it seems a crime of tax evasion. Now, under the pretext of freedom of the media, they want to avoid the crime of tax evasion, not freedom of thought, freedom of speech, freedom of information.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58894	Thank you, colleague Arsic. Right on line, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58895	Mr Risticevic, I spoke in the afternoon of the debate that, among other things, Vuk Jeremic sued Alexander Vukic for compensation for damages and because he allegedly suffered immaterial damage, and a man seeks to suffer the immaterial damage of 50 million dinars because Aleksandar Vukic told reporters the following. Otherwise, it's all true what Alexander Vukitch says. In the United States, people have been arrested as close associates with Vuk Jeremic, including their media, close associates Vuk Jeremic and his CIRSD. The word is to a serious international gang of thieves led by Jeremic. We knew that and it wasn't yesterday. Money from foreign embassies has been paid, and you'll see what's going to happen here and what's going to happen and who's going to play the piano. Leave these thieves and seciks aside, as well as simply appoint Saša Jankovic as prime minister and international thief Vuk Jeremic, etc. For all of this, Vuk Jeremic seeks compensation for the immaterial damage of 50 million dinars. Vuk Jeremic, who submitted 2008 as foreign minister, asked the International Court of Justice to give his opinion on whether the AP Kosovo and Metohija, in other words, had the right to declare independence in Kosovo and Metohija. In 2010, this advisory opinion of the International Court of Justice, which has been repeatedly called on by Hashim Thaci when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija before the UN Security Council, said that the February 2008 Declaration, brought by temporary institutions in Pristina, is not contrary to international law. Thus, Vuk Jeremic caused irreparable damage to the Republic of Serbia and its fight for KIM. But that's not enough for him now. He's in... (President: Time, Mr. Martinovic. ) Okay, then in later statements, I will say what this gentleman, who has done everything to separate Kosovo and Metohija from Serbia, what he transfers to Alexander Vukic, SNS and the Serbian List, who is struggling to preserve the minimum of Serbian state and national interests in KIM, so you will see what kind of elite it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58896	Thank you, Dr Martinovic, and thank you for your understanding, given that my colleague Seselj suggests I interrupt because of the time transferred. You have the right to a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58897	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Arsic, Mr Martinovic, it is irrelevant what Yugoslavia says. What matters is what our organs say, and I can agree with some MPs. The Third Prosecution, basically, that reminds me of Mr. Komlenski, conducts the case against the Sports Club and the Authorised Face of the Sports Club for the violations I have brought here. Now the basic question, at the request of Mr. Komlenski and myself, was whether the prosecution would, and the question was not only whether you were in charge of the Sports Club, but also against Nova, N1 TV, 13 sports clubs and some other lies of cross-border channels. The big question is, does the prosecution have the power, which is on its own, and the judiciary, which is independent, to process this? Here's a memo from the Slovenian regulator. The Slovenian regulator, represented by Teja Antoncic, says - to the REM response, which was actually written "United Media", "United Group", to that answer and to my question whether it is true what they claim, that this medium is registered in Slovenia and that it broadcasts and re-emissions the programme from there to Serbia, they replied that it is not true. But they said something else, which was interesting, so the Luxembourg regulator said that these media are registered in Luxembourg, like, "Adria News" owns N1 television... (President: Thank you. Hold on. (President: Time is up, colleague Risticevic. Here's a list of all the channels, all the fake cross-border channels, just to finish the thought, they include all the TVs I've listed here, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58898	Thank you, colleague Risticevic. Replica, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58899	I thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. I answered because I think the citizens of Serbia should know that Vuk Jeremic is looking for the compensation of immaterial damages from Aleksandr Vukic 50 million dinars, only because Alexander Vukic quoted American media as saying nothing else. He merely quoted US media as saying that the business partners of Vuk Jeremic from the period when he was president of the UN General Assembly were convicted before US courts for crime and corruption. And for that, Vuk Jeremic asks Alexander Vukic for 50 million dinars. In doing so, Vuk Jeremic, who managed to damage his country's opinion of the International Court of Justice that nothing was disputed about what the Albanians did in 2008, through his Twitter account of Alexander Vukic's most brutal insult, brought forth a bunch of lies, and not only did I say that, time proved that it was a lie and that it was a lie. Namely, on December 5, 2019, this same Vuk Jeremic, who asks for 50 million dinars, is not enough for him all that he robbed Serbian citizens, all that he got from the Qatar Embassy in Berlin, all that he got from Patrick Ho, from all those companies from Hong Kong, the United States, etc., says - Albanian media confirmed that Thaci was on a personal visit to Rome on November 4th, you were also, Alexander Vukic, and you met. Did you discuss taxes on goods from Serbia, whose introduction began two days later? And he says -- pests. He tells someone it's vermin! He, which is the biggest political vermin in Serbia's recent history. And on December 10, 2018, beware that a man himself is brave, he says, thinking of Vukic: "Because his rating is in decline, despite the brutal control of the media and the abuse of state resources," and what this brutal control of the media looks like, we saw it from the reporting of N1, NIN, "Time", "The Weekly", "New magazine", Nov S, says, "As his rating is in decline, despite the brutal control of the media and the abuse of state resources, Vukic wants early elections, counting on still being able to steal enough votes". I'm gonna stop here for now. Were there any early elections, ladies and gentlemen MPs? Were there any early elections, respected citizens of Serbia? No, I don't. There will be regular choices. This is proof of how many liars and how much fraud Vuk Jeremic is looking for, I repeat again, in the name of the immaterial damage of 50 million dinars just because Alexander Vukic quoted American media as saying that Vuk Jeremic and his associates were involved in various corruption affairs.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58900	Thank you. The right to replica has Veroljub Arsic. Here you go, colleague Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58901	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, the former regime, while exercising power, were just experts in abuses when it comes to state resources, but not just to deal with politics, but to garner huge amounts of money. I would just like to remind myself that the property of the city of Belgrade, Gilas, has been used to realise "The Big Brother", and has made millions of euros, so now it cannot explain how and how he has made so many millions fairly, so he is now guilty of Nebojsa Stefanovic, as interior minister, because the prosecution and the interior ministry are launching an investigation into the matter. As for cable operator SBB and Mr. Šolak, if he can call himself that, and N1 TV, it has recently happened that "Telecom" Serbia has discovered in its installations the installed installation of SBB cable operator which is placed there without knowledge and without any compensation. They used state resources, as far as they know, Telecom is still a public enterprise to make money. Now let me see, what court will prevent Telecom from charging him with the million-dollar damage done by SBB and Solak? I think everything should go back to its place and everyone should get what he deserves. Someone in his pocket because he stole state resources, someone to answer to state authorities and serve his sentence, and someone to win, and someone to lose in the election.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58902	Thank you, colleague Arsic. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Marinkovic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Here you go, colleague Despotovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58903	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, submit an amendment to the SRS to Article 3 of the existing Article 7. The proposal for an e-commerce law, as it is said, quotes: "A commercial message which is partly or in general the role of an information society must satisfy the following conditions", is replaced by the words "a commercial message which is partly or in the general service of an information society, must satisfy all the conditions provided for", with the explanation that the amendment is defined in a better and more precise manner by the subject of this law". At first reading I can welcome what is changed and complemented, which are free, with inevitable exceptions, cross-border services, commercial message, the removal of illicit traffic, improvement of legal protection, content, pardon, criminal penalties and so on. But we still don't trust the proposals of this law, because heavy ammunition is spent on a small goal. They're still inaccurate, they use big words, they're exclusive and I don't count. Someone doesn't read well in practice, and someone doesn't read texts. There are two things here. Under one, I quote: “The proposal for an e-commerce law in the first place is to specify certain wordings of the law in accordance with the formulations set out in the Directive, as well as clarifications which could create ambiguities in application.” What does this mean? The assumed condition is regulated by something that may be rather visionary. Two, bearing in mind that these are two complementary rules governing the market for goods and services in a comprehensive way. It cannot be understood that there are no comprehensive laws, for otherwise the National Assembly would not consider such changes and additions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58904	Thank you, colleague Despotovic. Replica, MP Veroljub Arsic. Here you go, colleague Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58905	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I owe an apology to the Serbian citizens about "SBB" and "Telecoma Serbia". It's not Telecom Serbia, it's Belgrade Power Plants. So, the cable operator SBB has installed “Belgrade Power Plants” 60km of optical cable for cable TV broadcasting, without any legal basis. Be careful, while he was now the late Bogdanovic, the mayor of Belgrade, who was also from the DS, was banned from this, let me say, technical and financial transactions. The cables ended up in "Belgrade Power Plants" by coming to power by Dragan Gilas in Belgrade. This clearly proves the connection in the thieving made by Dragan Gilas, Šolak and cable operator "SBB", that I am not talking about these phantom TVs now, because no one knows where they are registered, what my esteemed colleague Marijan Risticevic was talking about. So that's one, let me say, already a serious criminal organization dealing with the abuse of state resources to come up with millions of revenues in the euro.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58906	Thank you, colleague Arsic. You answered, colleague Risticevic, but you didn't mention it. (Marian Risticevic: I am not, I am.) All right, here you go. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević, right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58907	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Arsic, for tax evasion by SBB, you're right. You, dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, fair, worthy and honorable, are subscribers to "N1" television. You are not just subscribers of RTS, national service, you are subscribers and N1 TV, Nova S TV, Sports Clubs. You are paying the SBB subscription to finance these channels, and I will explain how. When an “SBB” subscription arrives, owned by United Group and United Media, they pass the money to Luxembourg by paying false cross-border channels because they are being broadcast in their cable. I deliberately told the broadcast, not re-emission, which would be allowed, but re-emissioning at the same time in Luxembourg and here, and that doesn't seem to happen. You, my fellow citizens, pay the subscription by pumping the money into the accounts of these fake cross-border televisions. The domestic media don't get that. Domestic media can only pay REM broadcasting fees that don't do their job, because if REM was doing its job, he would order that these fake cross-border channels be excluded, and if the operator didn't do it, his license was suspended temporarily. The operator is ‘SBB’. They don't do it because they're in the ground and then that money pumps out. Mr. Arsic and Mr. Martinovic, tell me -- would anyone buy a loser who's been making losses since 2015, which "SBB" shows in Serbia, because he's pumping money, so there's no profit? Teleko, with twice the market in telecommunications, has a profit of 150 million and is still funded by the team, sports clubs, etc., has a profit of 150 million and that is paid to the account, Mr. Martinovic, in the budget of the Republic of Serbia, where Teodorovic, the air-conditioned, as Atlagic calls it, receives a salary. "Telecom" pays it, "SBB" doesn't pay anything, shows false losses, because it pumps money out of a citizen's subscription, pumps up on fake cross-border channels, REM is made dead, they pump that money, that money, they show the loss. Would you buy from losers by 2.6 billion euros, how much SBB was bought a year ago? Of course you wouldn't. But those who buy it outside know how Solak, Gilas, pump money. It's the same team, they're part of that same team, and it's been going on for years. We have to break it up, let 'New', let 'N1' publish whatever they want about us, but aman people, aman Cosic, register in this country, from the subscribers of this country you live. You don't pay anything to REM or SOKOJ or Rattel, etc. The domestic media is paying for it. You broadcast unauthorized commercials on fake cross-border television, you add bread to the media and journalists and owners, etc. Someone's got to stop it. I know, the Prime Minister warned me that they're very dangerous people, but I have to say this, by pumping money, it's true, Mr. Arsic, they're tax evasion, because there's no profit, there's no profit tax. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58908	Right on line, MP Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58909	For what you said about "N1" television and their violations of the law, it's Mr. Risticevic all right. I am only obliged by the citizens of Serbia to point out once again how grammatical it is when we talk about people like Dragan Gilas and Vuk Jeremic. So Vuk Jeremic filed a lawsuit against Vukic for the compensation of immaterial damages, amounting to 50 million dinars. Now, look, he filed a 50m dinar lawsuit in the state that suffered NATO aggression in 1999, in a country that suffered robbery privatisation during the time while Vuk Jeremic, Dragan Djilas, Boris Tadic and others were in power. He filed a lawsuit against 50m dinars in the country that is still recovering from severe suffering from the government of Vuk Jeremic, Dragan Djilas, Boris Tadic and others by 2012. What does a lawsuit mean, and what does it mean when any citizen of Serbia, including Alexander Vukic, sue for immaterial damage of 50 million dinars? Just take the paper and the pen. For 50 million dinars, the average Serb should work, here, I tried to calculate it, so for 50 million dinars to pay Vuk Jeremic for only quoting American media that his associates were arrested and processed in the United States. Now, Mr. Risticevic, you take the paper and the pen, you're the host of a man, you can count, for 50 million dinars an average Serb should work for more than 80 years, and there's no expenditure, so that there are no parents, women, children, houses, apartment, that he doesn't pay taxes, that he doesn't eat, that he doesn't drink, that he doesn't dress, that he doesn't bathe, etc. So, an average Serb should work continuously for 80 years, that there is no expenditure, to meet this lawsuit request by a prosecutor named Vuk Jeremic. Now once again, when you take the paper and pen, for 50 million dinars, you can make at least 10 kindergartens, you can do, or you can renovate more than half of the Children's Clinic building on Tirsh Street and equip that building for treating children. All this Alexander Wolf is doing. So he increased Serbia's citizens, thanks to his policy, both salaries and pensions. We've renovated schools and hospitals, making new ones. We're making new highways. We've entered Project Tirshaw 2. All that doesn't matter, all that doesn't matter to Vuk Jeremic, he's a man looking for his 50 million dinars, because Aleksandar Vukic had the courage to just quote the American media that Vuk Jeremic, while he was president of the UN General Assembly and while he was representing the state of Serbia, and from the budget, Mr Risticic, if I'm not mistaken, was getting 8,000 euros on the monthly level for his work in New York, he is now looking for 50 million dinars. So beware of what kind of grammatical people they are insolent. It's not enough that they robbed while they were in power, but now they're looking for an astronomical sum of 50 million dinars. A similar sum is required, otherwise, by Sasa Radulovic, for a similar amount to be asked by Dragan Dilas of the Serbian state, because Aleksandar Vucic, as president of the Republic that represented, has asked the question raised by every normal citizen of the Republic of Serbia, so that in a few years someone can make a fortune for 500m euros. So Vuk Jeremic asks that he be paid 50 million dinars for his immaterial damage, although I do not know what it consists of. That's how we deal with people like that. What I forgot to say, and I remained in debt in a recent discussion with Alexander Seselj, 30 December 2018, that same Vuk Jeremic, says, imagine – Vukić is a bully, he is a coward, he can't stand even a firm look, let alone some serious pressure. On December 3, 2019, he says – a dictator with a huge grip awaits Saturday. These are the Saturdays when they protested, when they gathered in squares and streets across Serbia by 50, 100, 200, people etc. Here, I can show you, today they organized a performance in front of the Belgrade recession. He says "One out of five million" – Students don't shut up, no more fake diplomas. Now look at that force that Alexander Vukic is afraid of, he can't look them in the eye, he can't stand their serious pressure. Literally three young people, apparently abused, are blocking entry into Belgrade University's rectorate. This is happening today, because yesterday the lie of Dragan Djilas and Vuk Jeremic was shot down that Nebojsa Stefanovic should not show her diploma. The man also shows a degree, shows a student record, with all the photos from 1995. No, that doesn't apply now, it's not enough. Here, today it says, the large force "One of the Five Million" is blocking Belgrade University, with one student and two students. Here, that's the force that's afraid of Alexander Vukitch and can't stand their serious pressure.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58910	Thank you. The People's MP Marijan Risticevic has the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58911	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Martinovic, your pen is a little imprecise. It's a little more specific with me. According to today's average personal income, it is necessary for those 50 million, as they sue, to have an average Serb working for 834 years. But don't count it, their wish, and our pay, during our power. Count it on 32,000 dinars, not 50,000, because they think, when it comes to citizens, that 32,000 is better than 50,000, and when it comes to them, it's better than 50 million than 32 million. They have double standards. Now, at the time of their reign, when you take the average personal income, it took 130 years, so no man should have been born, so to live for 83.4 years, they had another one to be born and to continue. It took 130 years to pay off those 50 million, for which they sue, on their average personal income. Now, you think that's a big deal. For them, it's not a big deal. That's a big deal for us. It's a crumb for them. Do you know that it is, it is used to luxury, Jeremic, Gilas etc. When they sue some medium, they get this in six months, the court sentences, the court sentences their party to speed – 300,000, 400,000 etc. When I sue, I get $50,000. My mental pain is worth less than theirs. They have a more painful soul, as I say. The numbers are numbers, they are richer, their soul is therefore richer, although money and soul are two different things. If they had souls, they wouldn't have so much money. And so soulless, they have mental pain. That's why we don't. They're elite, it's the minimum fascism they do. But do you know that this amount they're looking for is only part of what Dragan Gilas earned while he was in office? Do the math. He earned 500m euros, asking for 50m euros, that's 400,000 euros. Take a pen, Mr. Orlic and Mr. Martinovic, that's part 1,250. What's huge for us is just a crumb. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58912	Thank you. The People's MP Vladimir Orlic has the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58913	You're right, Mr. Risticevic, when it's calculated, it turns out so much. I thought that some other thing was in the middle when Vuk Jeremic decided how much he would put in, what amount would put in that kind of request. It seemed to me somehow, it was more obvious to me that Vuk Jeremic was in charge of the amount that Gilas had and that he had at his disposal the moment he decided to official his ownership of the DS. Was it exactly 50 million or something like that of that debt DS? (Marian Risticevic: Forty-nine million. Forty-nine million. I'm sorry, Mr. Ristichevich, I didn't follow it as closely as you did. So, 49 million was DS, and then Jeremic, so he's asking for 50 million, the whole party was cheaper for one million than what Jeremic wants, probably wanting Gilas to outrun something. It is clear to me that there is a serious race between them these days and a difficult laziness on the subject of who is more important and who is the major boss, than these various caps who will be "capo di tuti capi". It is not surprising to me that the video, in which Jeremic is sneezing in a conversation with Rocen and laughing at the mother of Serbia-Montenegro. That he may have appeared, just as a result of this kind of reckoning, that is, the reckoning between Gilas and Jeremic, and to tell you something, Dragan Gilas certainly did not attempt to generate a false affair around Megatrend went blind and that he did not think that we would remember and ask the question, so wait, because Jeremic went to this Megatrend to give lectures. I am convinced that Gilas thought of it in advance and that that is why he chose the subject in this way, because he wants us to remind the people of Serbia of Jeremic, this episode of him, but also of this misdemeanor concerning both this Patrick Ho and Shak Tadian Gadian, as it is already called, and Patrick, as it is called Lozoya. Hoa Patrick Lozoi, do you know Mr. Risticevic, as his name was, I can't remember? But Gilas must have counted on us remembering these things and reminding Jeremiah. He didn't count on us to remember that Dragan Gilas had sent his people to this university, including sending his city secretary for education, to school there. At that time, nothing was disputed to them, and then everything was clear to them, and it should be supposed to be disputed and reportedly unclear only if they were to be accounted for, or with one of us or each other. But, how can I tell you, they can buy their own parties for 49 or 50 million, they can live up to their demands, lawsuits and complaints, none of which will stop us from asking those questions that are, and there is Mr. Martinovic's complete management, and there are the people of the SRS who mentioned them today. The questions are perfectly logical and absolutely in place. How is it possible that someone like Dragan Gilas has nothing to do when he comes into office, performs the most important functions in the country, and with them he goes away over time, the bestial, and the wealthier, that today his assets are measured into 25m euros in real estate only and in what he admits only, and how much is it, they probably only know him and possibly Jeremic, because they know too much of each other, and that's why each other is being set up by these games.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58914	Right on line, MP Alexander Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58915	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. We all know how an out-of-state operation took place, i.e. action against Serbia's national interests, primarily with these pointless issues to the International Court of Justice, as if we don't know that it's an institution that deals with politics and as the entire international community, will never be on the Serbian side, even when justice and truth are on the Serbian side. We know everything about it and who came to power. Who came after the mob coup, what happened later, what happened to a number of companies that were then privatized in a very suspicious way and we know everything about this Vuk Jeremic and we know everything about Gilas. But I have to admit that the SNS is quite contradictory both in procedures and in what some of its members are saying. We knew about this Jeremic, and at a time when he went to the US Embassy to apologize for saying he was negatively expressing himself on the bombing of Serbia, he said that Kosovo is a bitter pill, for which Serbs need little sugar to swallow it and everything else. It was published by Wikiliks, a US Embassy deputy in Belgrade. Whoever wanted to be informed, we published a book in two volumes, everything from the US Embassy in Belgrade. All of this, by initiative, then Prime Minister Vukic, Jeremic received support for the UN Secretary-General's candidacy. You knew that back then, you shouldn't have supported him. Dragan Gilas has until recently, beware, that we understand, the SNS has come to power in the elections, most Serbian citizens voted for the SNS and no one has the right to be angry, one can be dissatisfied, but no one must respect the electoral will of the citizens, because the electoral will is sacred. It is normal for SNS to then put its personnel on all targets in the country that should then implement the party's programme and policy and then respond, in the next election, to see what results will remain behind them. And in such a Serbia where the absolute power of the SNS has until recently, Dragan Gilas was president of the basketball union. How come we didn't know that about Dragan Gilas? It's a face from a SNS poster that the advances glued to Belgrade at the time Miskovic was arrested. We knew that back then. All this is true what these illegal companies are talking about, and about trade in media space, suspicious bank accounts, suspicious financing of political parties, all that's probably true. But let's see if it can be a trial for finally showing once and for all that one who violates the law should answer to the court and the law. What the MPs are saying now, or what we can read in the daily press, will not bring any effect and no consequences. Serbia, which needs to show that it is a serious rule of law, should process all those who have violated the law, and even those, we have seen who belonged to the SNS, particularly now in the municipality of Pozega. So to be the same archaic for everyone, and not to be, I have to say that it seems to me to be an excuse for everything that is currently bad, standing in various spheres of society, to be, so it is, even if we're better than these other, yellow enterprises, October 5th and what they've been doing. The state doesn't do that. The state doesn't serve that. Seriousness and responsibility are shown when someone is responsible for their actions or not to do so if it is contrary to the law. When we have such a degree of democracy and the development of the rule of law, then we will be able to talk about some standards and so on. If we only have in the media indictments, who's what he stole, who's the thief and who's doing what, we won't fight corruption and crime, nor will we make Serbia an orderly society and an orderly place to live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58916	Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58917	Once again it seems enough to forget that Miroslav Miskovic, and Marko Miskovic, and Oliver Dulic, and Milosavljevic, and that Bora Thessaloniki from Novi Sad, and Dulic Oliver, so many names we have said here that they are the subject of the competent authorities' interest in the court, to investigate and determine what they have done to these people, and yet it seems not enough. So, absolutely deals with the state today. Is it principled behavior ours or not? Well, I think these things and you've talked about quite enough and clearly give an answer that absolutely is. It is true that Vuk Jeremic was bending and bending and praying for Alexander Vukic's support to run for the UN post recently, you know the one that failed, that's quite true. Today, Vuk Jeremic can speak from morning till tomorrow if he doesn't, there are people who are witnesses who remember very well how he culled and prayed for some support. But what is most controversial in the whole story is about Jeremic and his mandate there, and this is how he disgraced the Republic of Serbia by working with the Lozojam, Ho and the like. I've got to remind you, that's what's been found out, and it's been known on a planetary level for a year and a half, two days. Is that right? That's when the U.S. procedure was initiated, they were investigating this Ho, and they started dealing with Jeremiah himself. You say there's something going through the media. Well, we just got word from the American media and found out about the case. They lit it up. Then they appeared on the basis of their investigation and those footage and photographs showing that Jeremic as a secretary at a meeting met one of the world's tycoons with another, and then traces of the investigation both of them in their countries appeared, so it was determined what his role was in all this. In front of these world media, Serbia is embarrassed, because he did it that way at the time, and what he apparently hoped would never be known. But there's absolutely no responsibility in that. Think at some point someone might do something good for Serbia, because they got a chance to do it in front of an institution like the UN, so it turns out you were wrong, and you thought it might be possible. But for something like this to happen, I'm sure nobody expected it. He can't even assume that someone for these things that Jeremic has shown that he's capable of them, that he's capable of real. So that's his relationship, first of all to the state of Serbia and to this people. It's nothing to do with us. If we're talking about a principled attitude, if we're talking about the seriousness and responsibilities you mentioned, Pozega is one of the excellent examples that there are both seriousness and responsibility and willingness to bear that responsibility in any way. It always takes a man to be honest and to lead the story from the very beginning to the end with equal principles, equal arches. Is an inadequate treatment of citizens' interests, is that what guides us? I agree it should be. What's the public's interest in Radio-Television Shabac having its studio on the third floor of the Old Town municipality? I absolutely don't understand what good and useful citizens of Old Town get from it? If we agree that they have nothing, it is only useful to Bastac, Gilasu and that team who treated Serbia this way as Gilas and Jeremic did, then I think that whoever takes care of the citizens' interests should not support it. Do we agree on that maybe?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58918	The word has the People's Messenger Alexander Seselj. Right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58919	First of all, I've set an example of Poega as a positive example, but it's just a drop in the sea. We now see that some people have been arrested, that's true. A little court ruling, a little trial. And, the biggest criminals, the ones we're talking about, "5. October, a "yellow company", they turned Serbia black, they destroyed, the Buddha why they sold our businesses to the robbery privatisation and boasted after it was a good thing, how modern it would help Serbia, if we applied so-called. "shock therapy", they remain at large, even some of the government's advisers, Mladjan Dinkic, Aleksandar Vlahovic, Miroljub Labus. Where are the processes against them? Mladjan Dinkic, a specific adviser to Aleksandar Vukic, for economic issues, Mladjan Dinkic, since 2014, advises Aleksandar Vukic along with Veljovic, who is an adviser to the security of former police director, they are advisers. What can Dinkic advise us? Where's the trial against him? What did he lie, promise, and what was he involved in, especially those 24 apostrophetic privatisations? Parts of the regime, parts of G-17 plus, parts of DOS are still being incorporated into the SNS regime. Here is Zorana Mihajlovic, first example, and what is now working with the US firm Bechtel, also stealing Serbian citizens, is that without a tender, a job is given at an enormously higher price to the US company Bechtel. As for the Old Town Municipality, Mr. Orlic, give evidence of crime, give evidence of corruption to the police, the prosecution to see who's involved. Do the same thing the D.A. and the police did in Pozega, see who's guilty, who broke the law, where the law breaks, how many citizens are damaged? To answer who broke the law. I would say first of all that it would be much better and more useful for you to first clean your yard, before you move for coalitions to other political parties, especially in municipalities where the SNS is in power from the SDA Sulejman Ugljanin. It's still the Pryce, the Preboy and Tutin, if I'm not mistaken. If Marko Bastic breaks the law in the Old Town municipality, he should answer if it's a crime. But it is also a crime and a crime when the president of a political party in Serbia calls Serbia a fascist tourist, Serbs as a people of genocide, Serbs of war criminals who committed ethnic cleansing and genocide against Bosniaks thousands of years ago in today's Sandzak, openly called for separatism, to independence so-called. Sandzak or Raška districts, you're with him in the coalition. If we're wrong about that, let's see who broke the law in Old Town. If there's been a violation of the law, and these are obvious things and statements, little, little we see in the media what Suleiman Ugljanin says, your coalition partner from Preboj, Prepolje and Tutina.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58920	The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic. Here you go. Right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58921	Those people you're talking about, I asked yesterday, can I ask again? If that's what you're saying is controversial, then you don't need to be partners, coalition partners, political partners, and they are. I still told you yesterday, talking is easy. We can always do the same thing, who thinks, who's gonna say harder to take advantage of it, but concrete parts show whether or not you're standing behind words, concrete results measure whether you've been able to do something. And to hear and to learn inconclusive proof that everything that Alexander Vukic does is right and that he has results is the fact that Ramush Haradinaj has resigned today, because he will now go to the International Court as a suspect and he will appear to be accounting for everything he's been doing, and what we have pointed out certainly would not have happened if it hadn't been clear, hard, principled positions of Alexander Vukic and SNS. Now, you can do that as a result when you're acting like Alexander Vukic and SNS, and at the time of those gardens, these jilas and the other tadics, only the Serbs were on the wallpaper, the Serbs were charged, the Serbs were tried, and evidence disappeared against these haradins, names and witnesses were lost to the dark. That's the difference, in that kind of result that either exists or doesn't exist. As far as the large fish in Serbia were concerned, I can't think of any bigger than Miskovic, and in whose time he became the subject of the organ's interest, so he had various judgments, too, and I am convinced, there will be more. The time of Alexander Vukic and the SNS, was it courage, was it the determination that someone was dealing with the largest of all the major fish before Alexander Vukic, the SNS? It never is. As loud as we may be, as much as we're trying to manipulate these jilas, gardens, etc. today. They collaborated with Miskovic and his like, were partners, and where there is this kind of responsibility, willingness, and the results that are seen. At the very end, have you seen pictures of the studio television "Sabac" on the third floor? You didn't see. We'll bring you today's paper so you can see for yourself, and then you can answer for yourself, is that useful to you, to someone from your party, or am I just thinking about Bastac, Miskovic, Gilas and those others who belong to that environment? It's a perfectly correct question for the end of this debate. What good did you do to any citizen in the old town by letting that happen and helping?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58922	The word is made by MP Branimir Rancic. Right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58923	I thank you, Chairman Arsic. I think in this high house, we should tell the truth and only the truth. The previous SNS speaker said that we, SNS in Meroshin municipality, have a coalition with DS. Absolutely not. I have checked, in the Meroshin municipality, the SNS, where two representatives from the group of citizens who supported the DS are now supporting the SNS. So these are the committees of a group of citizens who are not members of the DS and did not participate in the DS list in the municipal elections. For the sake of truth, I was obliged to say the following.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58924	The word has the People's Messenger Alexander Seselj. Right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58925	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. As far as the Meroshin municipality is concerned, I don't know how someone went to the election, but if after that they legitimateize themselves as a congregation speaker in the Assembly of the municipalities as a DS boardman, then he now considers himself a DS boardman. The way he came out, did he come out as a group of citizens, what does that have to do with anything? How many groups of citizens have come out here? I'm just saying that if there's a principle... I would respect the principle that there is, for example, no coalition with DS etc. if you're already representing it, but then you should respect it. (Marian Risticevic: Merošina and Old Town are just for comparison. Well, I don't know what it's like for you in India, Mr. Risticevic. Here, this is a specific situation. Until recently she was also in Rakovica between SNS and DS by 2016. There's no need for you to show me any photos of the newspaper or for me to go check out what's in which room in the Old Town municipality building. I'm not the police, I'm not the D.A.'s office, I'm not the Department of Economic Crime, I'm not any of that. All that there is, if you have evidence, please, I will support you if it turns out you're right. We don't want to believe the hard words. You don't have to trust me, and neither do I, but when the court finds something, then it's true and then it's believed. I call upon you, if you are sure, to have evidence, as soon as possible to deliver these evidence to the competent authorities to examine it, solve the problem and the responsible penalties. We'll see if any radicals or anyone else are responsible. I wouldn't recommend that we take this as a success and that we have some great pleasure that Ramush Haradinaj will appear in front of an international court. Haradinaj has already spent goods in the eyes of the international community. They got what they wanted, they occupied Serbia's Kosovo and Metohija and they did ethnic cleansing of the Serb people from Kosovo and Metohija and now they're still making us humiliate ourselves to admit it, so to speak. Kosovo's republic as an independent state. It's a weak comfort for Ramush Haradinaj to be prosecuted somewhere in front of a court of fiction there. All those main judgments that are international courts, i.e. Quasi courts have already brought in and 90% of them are directed against the Serb people, and that's what I'm saying because of the international community's relationship, so-called. international communities, i.e. a political west that has towards Serbia and the Serbian people. They'll always do something that's not for our benefit, i.e. to our harm, they will always see to it that as much as possible they break up Serbia's national unity, disperse Serbia into as many states, cause problems as in Kosovo, as are the ones with taxes, as well as the intimidation of Serbs with the incursion of so-called. Special Forces ROSU in northern Kosovo. It is all against the survival of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. Do not think that the international community and the United States do not have a mechanism to prevent all this and protect the Serb community living in Kosovo today. I will remind you, President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic, at the time the prime minister announced in 2015 that the guarantee of the survival of the Serb people in Kosovo and Metohija will be so-called. A community of Serb municipalities, that is, an association of all municipalities in which most Serbs are also played by the international community and the EU. All Serbia has fulfilled these Brussels agreements, and Pristina has nothing and no one has raised voice in protecting the Serb people, only our traditional allies in the UN, namely the Russian Federation and the People's Republic of China. It'll always be like that. We should be taught the experience of both previous governments and previous presidents. It will always be to our harm, sometimes less, and sometimes more. We have little comfort in whether Ramush Haradinaj will be in some prison or be prime minister of Kosovo, they are all just puppets in the hands of the United States.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58926	Right on line, MP Marijan Risticevic, then Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58927	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is our right to arrest and the same is the right of the opposition to arrest. National MPs of the Serbian Parliament are not arrested. There are three branches of government - legislative, judicial and executive. We as a Assembly can resolve ministers, the Government and we can only choose judges who are first elected to office, who are previously selected by the High Council of the judiciary from the time of the famous yellow reform. Now, if we were looking, this is how it goes. The damage to traffic signs is a felony. We're all witnesses that Bastache did it. We all saw it. We all saw that he caused danger by blocking one street, preventing people from working. He's committed more crimes. We suspect and claim that he did it, but wait for the court to rule, and only then to talk about it is for me a little bit, not to say, stupid. The judiciary is certainly independent of this executive and legislative authority, which I confirm, but is neither independent of the former government. With the famous reform of Bastac, LDP and the entire team that rules the Old Town, it has courted its party. Now I expect to wait first for Bastac to rule for what I saw with his own eyes, to wait for his party's court to judge him, so it would be like waiting for Albanians to condemn Haradinaj and Thaci themselves and that is a greater possibility than the DS court to judge Mark Bastac. We can hardly wait for this because it is the court of his party, selected about 2009-2010. Then these judges elected the High Council of the Judiciary, which can only be resolved by a judge if he violates the law, and Judge Majic is the best evidence. Let the Supreme Cassation Court determine that there has been a violation of the law by the judges, he will not be resolved again at the High Council of the Judiciary. It is not right to expect the court of their party to judge their members, those who have appointed them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58928	Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58929	Now you've done exactly something I couldn't imagine you could ever do. You tried to devastate the situation in which a man like Ramush Haradinaj was held responsible for what he did to the Serbian people. If someone asked me yesterday if it was possible for me to hear it, especially if I heard it from an SRS political representative, I'd say it's absolutely impossible, and you've done it now. What this man has done, whether it deserves a conviction, I think it is a question that is not asked, at least not in the country of Serbia, at least not in the Serbian people. How did that happen? Well, it is not certain thanks to those with whom you are forming a coalition in the Old Town or anywhere else, but precisely thanks to the principled and clear attitude of Alexander Vukic, the Serbian Government, the SNS, which remembers how long it lasts. Just because we insisted on these things, we have this kind of epilogue when it comes to Ramush Haradinaj, but also about everything else you mentioned, because the taxes that these people from Pristina have introduced are known as the subject precisely because we insist that it is the subject and that it cannot do so and that nothing can happen without it, that there is no dialogue without it. That's why you have both the EU and the US position and whoever you want the president to come to Serbia these days. Everyone says -- yes, you're right, Belgrade is right, because we insist on it, not Bastic, not Gilas, or any of those of you who are there in Old Town. Is the community of Serb municipalities a topic because it was introduced as a topic by Aleksandar Vukic, so it is a formal obligation for Pristina for which, again, all those you could not assume until yesterday will ever be on our side, now you say you are right, it should and it must happen. Who put that on the table? Alexander Wolfie. Who put that into the agreement? Alexander Wolfie. You say now we need a community of Serb municipalities, and you wouldn't remember that Serb municipalities community if it wasn't for Alexander Vukic. About that Brussels deal to learn something else. As a result, the Serbian people, this Agreement, although located in the situation that KFOR would clean up, therefore, no longer a long pipe of someone from Pristina, all the people who cared for the security of our people and who had politically represented it there in 2012 or 2013, came into the situation not to, but to have, on the other hand, its own police force, which is recognised by both KFOR and everyone else in the world, to have their judges who both recognise KFOR and everyone else in the world, to choose their own political representatives who recognise and respect KFOR and everyone else in the world, to be maximumly protected without being threatened by the danger that was put on the table in the first place of 2012/2013. A year. It takes wisdom, it takes a little more than being loud in the congregation debate, it takes a little deeper understanding, planning, so when you think about it some more in 2012 or 2013, then six or seven years later you realize what was absolutely impossible for each other, which was never a topic, which never came to their mind. You realize that someone like Ramush Haradinaj can no longer do whatever he thinks, whatever he wants in Pristina. Who else could have provided it, what other way was it? There wasn't that. It never occurred to anyone that something like that in this country is even possible, and it has to do with the level of relationships you show and the societies you choose. Wherever you look at any local self-government in Serbia, you ask the SNS, and you choose to participate, it's done the way we think it's right and there's both seriousness and responsibility, and if it's wrong, there's consequences, but it's done the way we think it's right. Who decides how to work on Strom City? Obscur some Bastaki, Gilasi these marines Tepic etc. Those who help them, who serve me, including you, are not asking questions. They just make it possible for them and people like that to do whatever they want. And whenever you answer, where's the verdict? You have not defended them, nor what they do in the Old City, nor what you participate in, nor what you provide in the Old City. You just acted to me for a moment more unseriously, gave me the opportunity to ask you – well, when you can completely irresponsiblely tell Labus is an adviser to someone in the government or to Alexander Vukic, total nonsense, untrue and completely irresponsible, or Vlahovic. Everything is exactly the same as untruth and nonsense. Let me ask you, why don't you remember, I'm not interested in these people at all, and I'm not going to defend them at all, ask them if there's a verdict. No, it's only important to you when Bastac is asked. Whom do you choose, what do you choose, what do you support and what is most important? It appreciates the way people see you. The same people who, for what happened today, about Ramush Haradinaj, will say -- allal religion, all honor to Alexander Vukic, the government of Serbia and you who participated, and that is what you supported. What are they gonna tell you? That's a question for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58930	Right on line, MP Alexander Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58931	I've always said there's a lack of trial and convictions against the same faces that you've now stated. Like Mark Bastic and anyone else, I said the same thing about Dinkic and Vlahovic and Labus, and all the others who participated in the organised robbery of Serbia. Calling something definitive, some legal solution or decisions made by the former government, that doesn't mean that it was made once and for all, once and for all, someone made this kind of reform, and now it has to be respected for all time, it can't change. That's not true. There are procedures by which laws change if they are not good. You mention that - she brought in the former government, so now we've found that state, that doesn't mean it can't change. I'll learn a lot from you. You're right, Mr. Orlic, but you seem very naive, infantile to me if you think, first, that something epochal will happen to Ramush Haradinaj, that he will finally answer to the international community for all crimes where he was a direct perpetrator of war crimes against Serbs. If you think that time has come now, it's naive. He was tried twice in the UN tribunal and released twice because he was an American project and an American man in KIM, who was brought to power by Americans. There's no reason for us to believe it'll be different now. It's simply how Americans work with people who run out of time, like toilet paper, after use is thrown away. It's what Americans do with their projects and experiments and people they control, puppets, not just in the Balkans, but all over the world. I guess we should learn that from historical experiences. You tell me these in Old Town, yours, so let's make a deal, I don't know if you can talk on behalf of the SNS, but I'll talk on behalf of the SRS. The Serbian Radical Party will believe everything you say and leave power in the Old Town as soon as you leave power in Novi Sad with Nenad Canka and when you leave power in Tutin, Prijepo and Priboj with Sulejman Ugljanin. As soon as you leave Chanka and Ugljanin, we leave Bastac, we believe in your word and you will get our apologies for all these days when we discussed it. I will remind you, this Nenad Canak, your coalition partner from Novi Sad wanted to call, and we have prevented him from doing so, because we have talked about this subject in public, representatives of the Cypriot parties from Kosovo to be guests in the Serbian Parliament, as chairman of the European Integration Committee to the place where he was elected by the ruling majority. Nenad Canak thus became president of the European Integration Committee. The Serbian Radical Party thinks that Serbia's state needs a full consensus in order to fight to preserve KIM within Serbia and everything the ruling coalition will do, and to benefit from the preservation of KIM within Serbia, will have our support. We see that you here support Nenad Canka, who calls for representatives of Kosovo's parliament in Belgrade, in the Serbian Parliament. This is much worse than those who called the Croatian MPs, so we attacked them here when they took them on a tour of the Assembly. Remember that. Remember Pernar, and your coalition partner Canak wanted to bring in the Cypriot terrorists from Kosovo. Don't put a thorn in someone's eye and don't see it in your eye, Mr. Orlic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58932	Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58933	It's quite clear that it's all our fault. What Nenad Canak sends a letter to someone, it's in your eyes that it's our fault, and Nenad Canak saying that Vojislav Seselj is a convicted criminal, and he didn't leave, thrown out of the assembly, it's our fault again. All of us, who are in some dispute with each other, are always guilty of us. We're used to it. There's nothing new to us. Among the things you need to learn is that you, except for your own MP group, don't ask for anything in the National Assembly, you approve of nothing, you forbid anything, and that Nenad Canak can't organize anything or someone else, it can only be a credit to us who have a majority on every committee, no one else. As for the relationship with what happened today to Ramush Haradinaj, whether he will be convicted or not, it is currently less important to me than the fact that this man has been called to account. What did you do for him to be called to account? Here, we weren't able, we didn't know, we're, as you just told me, infantile, so we just provided it today. Did you deliver him for responsibility yesterday, five days ago, ten days ago, a year, two, how long ago? You never did. Have any of these Bastaches of yours, Gilas, Tadic that you're already making that most of the Old Town? No, of course not. There's no one until it gets to us. We're so much more incompetent, more infantile, than we already are. Just like we talked about Miroslav Miskovic. None of you capable somehow managed to do it, but it fell on us. No one could have the yellow company regime shifted until we incompetent showed up. There's no problem. Let's be like that. Let's be on call, all of us, but these things remain as the results that are being recorded for Alexander Wolf and for us, not for any of you who are so good and capable. In Novi Sad, as far as I know, no one's tearing up construction sites, no one's throwing money at hiring these hooligans, criminals, like this Bastic does. That's where we wonder how it's gonna be. I didn't notice anything like that. That's what I was talking about earlier, but I need you to listen a little bit. Where we ask ourselves, it's the way we think it's right. In Old Town, it's just like Bastac and Gilas think it's right. And what is the weight of your position right now? What you support, what you make possible. You can't find a single example in Novi Sad or elsewhere where the SNS wonders, that there's this kind of burden and you can't escape from that story with the question of whether there's a verdict somewhere. There is no verdict. But if you're interested in that television Shabatz you took in there with Bastac and Gilas, on their third floor. I think he's being financed directly by the city of Sapca, that society, that association, that same team, that same cartel. The representatives of this town went to Pec, to be painted there under the symbols of a so-called so-called so-called. An independent Kosovo. Did you ask Bastache what this looks like? You did tell him he couldn't do this without a verdict or with a verdict. You're not. You didn't care. I tell you, the people who follow these things, they'll appreciate these things tomorrow. I don't care how these people plead when we ask them next year if you want people like this to stay in power or not. I'm worried about one other thing. How much damage the Old City or any other place will suffer, until the moment people are invited to get rid of these monsters and these, how many places that monster has managed to survive. The damage is done every day by keeping these and such people in power. And if you participate in such a thing, there is no congregation debate in which you can justify it. It doesn't exist, and even if you try to mask it with a maneuver such as the blighting of Serbian victims and the importance of the topic as it is that someone is responsible for what he did to Serbs, like Ramush Haradinaj did, you know what, you know how much, you know in what dimensions. You can't run away from this responsibility of yours. In addition, I don't think you're going anywhere politically in favor of it, nor the honor of trying to make Ramush Haradinaj's responsibility to the terrible Serbian victims underestimating that tomorrow you're going to get, what, one more place in some company in Old Town.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58934	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since the debate in replicas has been going on for over an hour, in accordance with Article 112. I'm setting a five-minute break for the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58935	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 4th amendment. Comrade Rističević, do you want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58936	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we tried to explain today how through all these electronic services, communications, big money can be made. Serbian citizens should know that from their subscription, that from an unauthorized commercial that destroys domestic media, Dragan Gilas is earning about 200m euros. So that's part 125 of what he's suing Alexander Vukic. It's a very rich man. He's never had enough. We could easily feed the poor and take care of the poor, but we can't feed the rich. It's never enough for the rich. She has a saying - the poor and the rich hands are always stretched out. The poor are asking for a little, and these rich are asking for a lot, and they never have enough. And that's our problem. The problem with the rich is -- the richer they are, the more eager they are for money in Serbia. Bill Gates acquired 95% of his fortune on internet communications, etc. And he certainly earned them. So 95% of his fortune was shared by the poor, even though he acquired it legally. Dragan Gilas, Dragan Solak, 95% of their wealth has been taken from the poor and they have no idea of returning anything. That's why it's high time for those in charge of this, first of all REM, then the prosecution, the judicial authorities, the police, to deal with these people. And to repeat again, for who knows which time, that neither I nor my colleagues, we have no intention of affecting the editorial policy of any media. We have no intention of affecting the editorial policy of any media, that the media is free for us, but that they must obey the laws. Valtazar Bobisic said - laws for everyone, the law and in this country laws must also apply to the rich, Gilas, Šolak and their helpers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58937	Thank you. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 4th amendment. Here you go, colleague Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58938	Mr. Minister Djordjevic, are you there? Visually, I see you. You have a very correct share in the debate, and you may be one of the ministers who has the greatest minutes in the National Assembly. However, what I could hear from fellow MPs who support your government, there is a problem. When counterpart Natasa Jovanovic explained the amendment to the previous law concerning criminal policy, you said - we must send a message, punish all those who do not comply with the law. We have your support. She tried to explain to you that those petty offenders for objective reasons might not be treated as those who intend to do so. Now, you see, the Law on Electronic Trade, Television, the Electronic Media, did you hear it, I didn't know it, although it's my problem because I think the MP should at least be informed on average in Serbia, I didn't know there were some televisions that weren't registered. And maybe you don't either. But here, now you know. And then your obligation as Minister of Labour, Social Affairs, is to send in labour inspectors, that's what can be done right away, but on Monday, in these televisions, to see if these people are reported, firstly, they're making big money, on the one hand, and on the other hand, they're affecting the creation of public opinion and on the third hand, they're just sending a bad message, as you said, that they'd still keep thinking of you the way it really is. I expect you to let us know what you've done about it. That's one thing. Secondly, regarding this amendment to Article 4, this law was passed in 2009. You're not responsible, whatever he was. In 2013, he had some changes. You were in power. In particular, Article 4 refers to Article 8 of the existing law, this is where the directive, which was adopted in 2000 by the EU, applies mainly to electronic operations within a single country. Couldn't that have been regulated in 2013? Don't reach for the warrants they're putting on your side. We should in the best possible way, co-operate with everyone who wants to, where there is an interest in Serbia, not dispute, but don't edit things in Serbia as it suits anyone on the side. And don't overwrite this blindly either, align your life needs with the regulations that we bring, and then Serbia's citizens will benefit from it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58939	Thank you. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 5th amendment. Here you go, colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58940	Here we come to a situation, Mr. Minister, that the termologically this e-commerce law, or trade, is trying to level with something that already exists in the Public Records Act. And that's one term of controversy among lawyers, legal experts, law professors, if that's anything, so-called. Solemnisation, should stand at all in any law and at that time the Law on Public Registration, and we are otherwise against public notaries, or that law, because we feel it is unnecessary, that Serbia should continue as it was done for decades, that all contracts and all other certificates are carried out with competent courts. I remember, there was a show on this so-called. Public yellow Bujket's service, even the president of this Belgrade bar, I think it was Šoštic, they're changing now, and, you know, he didn't know to explain that interpretation that stands, here, I wrote down -- on the ministry's website it says that soloization is a confirmation of the ID in the public notebook. And then the question arises - and why does the public document have to be confirmed? Here's the lawyer, Mr. Martinovic, as a doctor of law science, Mrs. Radete and, you know, it's one legal nonsens. Something that has already been verified through the two parties' contract, or certified, as I propose this amendment on behalf of the SRS, now needs some notary to solemise, right, or say – well, that's something that I confirm is true. And, "solemnizejsn" originally, I looked at it a little earlier on this Oxford dictionary, Mr. Martinovic, means religious ritual, usually when it comes to the wedding. Really, I don't understand that there's something that's already been approved by the contract. I understand, come on, if you've introduced those notes, they're legalizing someone's signature. A man comes in, I guess we're, I say, against them doing it, but doing the courts. But if that is already solemnized, please explain to me what exists in this law, because here the government has explained and said – because it is in line with the Law on Public Registration. We think it should still stand, as we have said, certified, or legalized, because it's really enough to confirm. When, I think, in 2004, the law was passed in Serbia, we were the same MPs in the assembly, the Law on Electronic Signature, when it began to apply in the negotiation of the two sides. It's been working out a lot. These people, especially with these distance contracts, here, this is a distance shop, or a shop seven days a week, 365 days a year, 24 hours you can order goods. Of course, that's where citizens need to be careful and take care of where they do it. Now that we're talking about this solemnized purchase, under the pretext, or certified and agreed, I wanted to commend really one positive example, and that's an invitation, and that's for everyone else. They don't have to be diaspora people, but we do have a case in Prepolje, where Mr. Varaklic returned, as an emigrant earlier to Canada, to his hometown and he formed a company that employs over 50 young people with a tendency to be even more. In that space, so here, they're dealing with selling online. It's a network similar to "Amazon" or "Ali-babi", but it's a Canadian online trading network, young people whose average is paid, it should be an example for all of you who bring foreign investors and give them subsidies of 10.11 000 euros. This man hired these people and the average salary, you won't believe, Mr. Minister, over 100,000 dinars. Even some have 150, 200,000 dinars. It's a very serious job. Someone to be an operator, in terms of an online expedition, for a well-known company in the world, to do these, as they say, "fri Lance" jobs, that's responsible. Our young people who are informers, here is a colleague of Orlic, who is also a doctor of electronic science, who can tell you that this is something exhausting, at the same time responsible, but well paid. So we need to educate our people here. Now this law has been passed, so, you know, neither is the percentage enough, or being, probably, we insist that you pay a little more attention and accept these amendments in the voting day. It hasn't even come to life as much as it should to help domestic companies that are doing their job, sell online their goods. But then, really, why do these expressions that are unnecessary in both these words and in this law, as well as in the Law on Public Records? Simply, if you want one of these laws to be for modern business, because there's not a little kid today who doesn't use computers and more people and in some other environments, and it really helps our companies, because you're still gonna encourage those other people, young people, info-rammatists, to make these online platforms, shopping sites. Of course, the state will benefit from that. There are commercials, not those like Gilas, monopolies, that cost a fortune and a lot of money. Speaking of this solemnization, Mr. Arsic, you've heard that this unfortunate pro-Western and anti-Serbian change alliance has made some kind of deal with the people. A treaty without a people. And what, Mr. Martinovic, did you just say - 100, 200 people? Here, there were 15 of them in Kragujevac on Saturday. You know, they will do everything, only the people will, and we ask you to do your job to the end as a government that has that responsibility and to process all of them for their misdemeanors, or for the robbery of Serbia and state resources.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58941	Thank you. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Comrade Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58942	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament. First of all, I could get the impression that Serbian radicals think that Haradinaj is not a criminal. It's a complicated deduction from Mr. Orlic. You know, if there's somewhere we can achieve national unity, it's about KIM. Not only does the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia oblige all MPs, all state officials and all political parties to respect the Constitution and to always and in every place represent Serbian interests and fight for the preservation of the KIM within Serbia. We have always taken the same principled stance – the fight for the preservation of KIM in Serbia. I spoke of this several times before the plenary session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, where many SNS partners from the European family of the national parties had excavated me and I talked about the Serb people being on the verge of a humanitarian disaster because of a 100% taxi. I was saying that from the officials of the government of the Republic of Serbia, Mark Djuric, they arrested ROSU terrorists and carried him into Pristina and dragged him around Pristina as a beaten dog. I was also talking about the fact that ROSU terrorists are breaking into northern Kosovo and scaring the Serbs. I talked about it being under the watchful eye of the international community, it takes a quiet exodus of Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija, to create an atmosphere that Serbs in Kosovo do not feel safe, that they do not feel on their own country. Don't make a whole lot of thesis replacements everywhere. And let us not equate the situation in local self-government with such a serious issue, with a question of the national interest of the Republic of Serbia, how is Kosovo and Metohija. We can talk about everything and discuss it, and see who's right, but yet I think the consensus is necessary when Kosovo and Metohija come to order.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58943	Thank you. National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to the 9th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Stojanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58944	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Ministers with Associates, I have tabled an amendment to Article 9. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on electronic trade. With my amendment, I asked for a million dinar number to be replaced by a 750,000 dinar figure. So I asked to reduce the fine provided for by law. The purpose of every law should not be merely material punishment. Every punishment, no matter what it's about, has to play a educational role next to the material one. This team before, as far as the law relating to electronic trade is concerned, all market players have not yet sufficiently overcome all aspects of this type of trade. For this reason, there may sometimes be a violation without any real intention. On the other hand, the internet is not yet available in all areas, especially when it comes to rural areas. For that reason, I asked to reduce the amount of penalties provided. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58945	Thank you. Member of the 10th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the People's Messenger is the Prophet of the Prophet of Radeth. Here you are, colleague Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58946	This article 10 is truly amazing and shows the absurdity of some of your bill's proposals. It's good for the public to hear what you've suggested here. You said when the law comes into force, and that's fine, but you say -- except for Articles 2 and 8 that will apply from the day Serbia enters the EU. This really doesn't make sense. It is now irrelevant that we are against Serbia's entry into the EU, which you would like to enter, but the fact is that there is nothing from the EU, and that there is, why we should pass the law today, and it will apply, we don't know when. Why didn't you wait, well, in 2356, when we joined the EU, then passed the law and changed it with these two members. So why propose a law without these two members that exist in the law, which will not be applied, that will never be applied? Because Serbia will never enter the EU. Now I know your latest mantra, you say – it is important for us to settle the situation in our country, even if we never enter the EU. This is neither, because the application of Articles 2 and 8 of this law is exclusively related to Serbia's entry into the EU. Really, I'd like some lawyer to explain to me what these two members of the law mean to me? Indeed, suggest some law on Serbia's departure to the moon, and then let's say -- the law will be applied when the rocket is launched. Really, absolutely absurd. You should've at least accepted this so logical amendment, you don't seem to have a funny law.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58947	Thank you. Since we've completed the review of the amendments, I've concluded the review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 5th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Stock Exchange Act. We have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Tomislav Ljubenovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marjan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Comrade Rističević, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58948	It's Friday, to speed up a little bit, I'm going to give up so little, I'm going to make up for the time I've spent on you across the border.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58949	The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Rade. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's Messenger, the Prophet of Rade. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58950	Article 2 The bill on stock exchanges is the kind of member we always propose to delete. This is the meaning of certain terms and regardless of the conditions that you predicted the bill should look like, we never understand why it must be explained what the term in some law means, because we think, and I guess it's normal that the law will apply people from the profession and I guess at least termology knows if anything else. Now that we have this member, we have proposed to change in Article 2 paragraph 1 point 3, and point 3 is explained – market material because goods and unstandardized future contracts traded on the stock market. Now, you have here explained what a contract is and what a video market is and we have accordingly suggested that it is nice in this point 3. standing – market materials make up goods and unstandardized future contracts traded on the spot and forward markets of the stock market. Then you say -- you can't do that, you from the government, because market materials make up goods and non-standardized terms contracts traded on the spot and forward market goods market, you can't do that because the spot market is the market on which the goods are sold, the forward market is the market for unstandardized future contracts. And it's a store, no matter what the other way, but you can't say it's not a stock trade. I'm sorry, I didn't see the time run out.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58951	Thank you. The People's MP, Natasha Sp, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58952	Mr. Minister, you will agree with us that this law is very important for the future functioning of agriculture in Serbia, especially because of the fact that the stock market and our newly-sed product stock exchange is one of the leaders in this part of Europe. This institutional framework that needs to take us out, as you said in your opening presentation, that is, our products and the world market is only a legal framework, but we have to come to this, and there is a colleague Risticevic, there are many other people who come from the Vojvodina area, but also other parts of Serbia who face it before they place their products through the product stock market have many other problems. These are: the city, the insufficient subsidies that we are looking for by amending and supplementing the laws on subsidies for agricultural products, because here you are currently having a current situation that the price of wheat is lower than usual, perhaps even lower than in the last four years. I remember in 2011 or 2012, that she had a maximum of 25 even dinars, and the price of flour was almost 31 dinars. Today, a Serb peasant must look first into the sky, then see what and when the state will return, which subsidies will receive, and then eventually appear. However, the productive stock exchange is not unfortunately made for ordinary Serbian peasants, but for those who have larger complexes of the country, and especially for these foreigners who have taken huge fields, hectares and dozens of hectares to rent under dubious conditions in times of even these yellow ones, and thus goes from year to year for their crops, and the common farmer, because the average of the crops on which wheat is sown in central, southern, western, eastern Serbia is greater than two to three hectares, and that is very, very few of those on the larger field sowing. First of all, the state needs to entertain itself by organising that all these smaller agricultural producers, which the persistent SRS requires through our programme and through the idea of agriculture, all in one place to buy for them, and then let it appear on that stock market. It is truly amazing that people from these remote rural areas, especially from mountainous areas, so there when you look at the whole area, and enjoy the end, and then you go along Zlatibor to Nova Varoshi, Pryboa, Prepolje, they don't have the opportunity to place what they produce on these smaller properties on the stock market. The second question is for you, counterpart Risticic, as chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, have you so far established who did everything during the rule of Rasim Ljajic, who was formerly Minister of Trade and Dosovna Government, abuses in the storage of wheat from commodity reserves, where huge quantities disappeared, and who was this privileged and in Vojvodina under Bojan Pajtic's stick and his con team in your Indija when Jesic was and that I did not order further all these thieves and where was the huge amount of goods missing and just the stock that ended in their pockets, these thieves and criminals?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58953	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, colleague Despotović.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58954	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. This amendment concerns Article 2 paragraph 1 point 6) is amended and reads as follows: ‘the market's market share is the market on which goods are sold and delivered after the stock market is closed at the current price’. I believe that the amendment defines the subject matter of this law in a better and more precise way. As it is a whole new law, where we have no experience in practice, i.e. the application of this law, I will apostrophe in the text of this bill, where it says that the stock market is not allowed on its own behalf and for its own account to trade in market material. All this stands well, but how do you control them and keep them under a light bulb, as if employees and board members can't give advice on trade in market material? Experience tells us, no matter how much we predict and specify certain items or members of the law, when it comes to human factors, there is always room for manipulative actions, so even this new bill scares me from being manipulated and abused, because how to forbid people or prevent them from sharing with some information, even if it is an official secret. As regards the minimum capital of the stock exchange, you stated in this Bill that the minimum capital of the stock exchange cannot be less than 50 million dinars. I'm not sure this is the best solution, because I think this stake is small and it needs to be increased for greater and more serious competition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58955	Thank you. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. I'm a friend of mine. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58956	Fellow MPs, when we talk about the stock exchange, we, above all, see a large number of agricultural producers. Of course, their fate, their production can't begin to fit into what norms this bill and here you see what our relationship to this law is like. We are deeply aware that this law should exist, but we have tried some interventions to make it better. Since there has been a lot of talk today about the media, the stock market is a market medium, but much more objectively, colleagues Risticevic, from N1, Nova, from “Today” and many other media that you have been talking about. The stock market puts goods in the centre, first of all, not individuals, not goods owners and not those interested in buying these goods. Mr. Minister and you, gentlemen of the Department of Trade, might think, that would be a good way to preserve a certain number of people in rural areas, if something similar to the stock exchange in Belgrade could be formed where they could place their agricultural products that certainly have a safe sign of healthy food, and a large number of Belgrade citizens certainly need such quality products. It is he who could well serve the citizens of Serbia. Two important reasons are for that. One is that our villages and smaller municipalities do not remain empty and empty. On the other hand, these people, when they already live where they might like to live, can earn some money and provide quality service to the citizens of Belgrade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58957	Thank you. The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Comrade Seselj, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58958	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, as we know, have been one of the major problems facing the Republic of Serbia over the past six months, i.e. it seems to me for eight months that there have been, that is, temporary institutions in Pristina have introduced 100% taxes on goods coming from Serbia and BiH. As you know, and rightly so are SNS MPs who talked about it, warnings have come from all over the world that they need these taxes to withdraw, that they are a non-civilization act and so on, which I agree with, but that's all else declared and nothing has been done to change that state. I will remind you, the EU, and in particular the United States, they also have mechanisms to prevent such a situation. All they had to do was decidently tell all other countries in the region that, as you know, are not states in the fullest sense because they do not exercise sovereign authority on their own and on their own behalf, but are done by foreigners, to limit exports to the territory of Kosovo and Metohija from other countries that are in the environment and thus force Kosovo Albanians to abolish these pointless taxes, which were only directed solely to make the Serbian people to AP Kosovo and Metohija feel insecure, feel threatened and feel that there is no perspective for life in this area. Another friendly advice I would like to give to the government of the Republic of Serbia, especially the Ministry of the Interior. In my opinion, Tutin, Prijepolje, Priboj and Novi Sad municipalities should today and in the next few days strengthen the presence of members of the MUP so that violent demonstrations of local authorities from these cities do not happen because Ramush Haradinaj has withdrawn from the post of prime minister, so-called. Kosovo. As you know, Nenad Canak and Suleiman Ugljanin, their parties exercise power and are part of the coalition government in the cities of Novi Sad, Priboj, Prepolje and Tutin. If they go out to the streets to violently demonstrate, they will not move the fences and pull the signs, but will immediately break into the institutions. Wouldn't be their first time.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58959	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Sreto Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58960	The Stock Exchange is a legal person and we here in Article 5(4) have suggested... The proposal reads this: “The use of the word stock exchange is prohibited in the business name of a person who is not established and who is not authorised to carry out the work of the stock market in accordance with this law. ” We've suggested to be in point 4. The proposal for a law after the text: ‘slave stock market’ is added: ‘and related synonyms which allude to this type of business’. People know how to make a profit, some of their own personal interests, and then look for ways and opportunities to play the law. We therefore suggested to specify not only that there is no stock exchange in the name, but also something that could associate or suggest that this type of work could be done, that it would be prohibited, that it would be prohibited, or that it would be punishable. Once again, to remind the stock exchange has a huge importance for transport, primarily agricultural products, shifts personal persons outside that part, and regulates supply, demand and price. And if that's the case, then we want it all to be fully precise and there's no dilemma. One question was, before, where and at what point is now our stock exchange, and the answer was that it wasn't in the sky or on the ground. This is a good opportunity for this problem to be solved, but the government, when it responded to non-acceptance and reasoning, which is why it does not accept amendments to the SRS, was very often the answer – because they are not fundamental changes, interventions, but they are of a technical nature. It doesn't suit you when we intervene with some quality changes, where sometimes, in part, the motionary concept, i.e., may change. Government. It doesn't suit you when there aren't so many deep changes, it's just some technical solutions. When and how does it suit you? Sometimes you'll tell us how to write the amendments, then it might be acceptable for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58961	Thank you. The 6th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) To Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58962	Again, I have to go back to what already exists in Serbia, which is the Novi Sad Production Stock Exchange, and just now, my colleague Despotovic said that we believe that this small amount is 50 million dinars, because this stock market has a risky aspect and anyone who teaches goods there is normally supposed to be provided. The production stock market in Novi Sad, which has excellent co-operation with the Republic Stock Reserve Directorate, annual purchases from 100 to 150 thousand tonnes of wheat and other cereals. However, now that such a new stock exchange would be established in another part of Serbia, which would, for example, be very important for central Serbia, for the Aryan, Valjev region, for the south of Serbia, where traffic is being made, but between producers and those buying it, other raw materials, or agricultural products, that is something that the state should support and define in which parts of Serbia will establish such a stock market business, where exactly the way the storage is to be known, where it will be known and what possible deviations in protecting that price will be. We can't run down the water now, or our raspberries, or people who do apple and other fruit production, or vegetables, and pretend there aren't those same prices at, say, the bologna stock exchange. There, I mean, during that biggest stock market business of theirs, in that period of the year, I was twice, a long time ago with the people of Agrozadnica of Serbia, and that was when our farmers, who were traveling with us, were amazing to show up there with their products, with their cattle, and to get the best price right away, but for quality. You know, it can't be found on a product market or on a stock market that doesn't have its own quality. To speed up, so every man... Mr. Djordjevic, you are probably thinking, that's your portfolio for work and employment, that the majority of people who wish to return it back to the Serb village, is it so, to revive the Serb village, to raise new plantings, to have a new production. That's why this business is important. These amendments we have submitted are in the function of technical improvement of the law. There are also some fundamental changes, but mostly such as to allow this stock exchange business that is very important for Serbia to be better for the future and to help with goods placements on the Russian market. It's really our chance. Everything we produce in Serbia, to consider and that the Russians have huge grain fields and that they play a key role in dictating prices... You know, when the price of cereals jumps in Russia immediately on the Product Exchange in Serbia, and then they make a decision, it's really one so organized powerful and strong country and Putin and his associates watch the world market movement, then subsidize the transport that plays a very important role in buying and then balance and watch how to protect and its price, and that their agricultural producers do well. We don't really have it. Remember only last year, you had this problem in the government, when Northern Macedonia now established, in addition to those normal customs relations that we have, outside of the customs quota, and asked our millers to adapt to their government's new decision and unpack the sacks, to wait for a phytosanitary review. It could have been a month. I also witness such cases that trucks are being held for phytosanitary examinations and papers coming from Sarajevo and their administration, not from Republika Srpska, but from Sarajevo, and that our trucks are waiting for who knows how many days. It's already an increase and transport costs, and imagine how many mills were destroyed a year and a few days ago. And then Rasim Ljajic says, "We will see, we will wait a few more days, and then we will set up countermeasures." When such a thing happens, the government must always have ready measures and respond, because how the Russians know to protect their products, so I guess we should know and learn from them how to protect our market and ours.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58963	Thank you. National MP Marijan Rističević submitted to the 7th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. Does anyone want a word? The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic? Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Despotovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58964	This amendment concerns Article 8(3) of the Law proposal. The word “ Member” is replaced by the word “entity” which explains that this amendment is a more precise and comprehensive solution. Since it is a whole new law which defines institutionally and legally a commodity stock market business that differs from the stock market, above all, the subject of trade, so that foreign exchanges, effective foreign money, precious metals and electricity cannot be traded on the commodity market, because it is regulated by another law. The stock exchange may trade in shares, bonds and other securities of value determined by the Securities Commission. Proposal for a law we're talking about. Stock exchanges are only one type of stock exchange on which cereals and other agricultural products are most commonly traded. Contemporary stock exchanges and the development of sub-terminal and stock exchanges contribute to the construction of a market-oriented economy and, firstly, the agricultural sector. In particular, for individual agricultural producers who are able to participate in organised stock exchanges, which has not been the case so far in the practice of trading on the Product Stock Exchange in Novi Sad. All this said in this bill sounds nice and it's eary, but if any of this will benefit, it remains to be seen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58965	Thank you. National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to the 9th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Stojanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58966	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament and the Honored Ministers with Associates, I have tabled an amendment to Article 9(1) point (9) 9. Proposal for a stock exchange law. For the largest number of problems that arise on stock exchanges, responsibility is borne by a human factor. These problems are mainly caused by speculative stock exchanges, where manufacturers always pay at the end of the day. On the other hand, there are a number of problems that have been caused by the so-called higher force. However, when the problems of this species arise, it means that the stock market speculators will not act. The EU's most developed industrial countries are directly or indirectly the most responsible for all market speculations. Serbia is a small country and globally we have no influence in this respect. That is why we must not look blindly at everything that the EU imposes on us. And that there is no other reason, it is sufficient that the EU's leading countries take away Kosovo and Metohija from us. Finally, the time has come to free ourselves from this fear, to turn to ourselves and our interests, so I guess this government is finally aware that Serbia will never enter the EU, even if God did not give up Kosovo and Metohija. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58967	The 9th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 9 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Rade. Does anyone want a word? Here you are, colleague Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58968	You say, so far, there has been no legal framework for trade in goods, that's true and that's the reason for the adoption of the Stock Exchange Act. But there were, in addition to this productive stock market that our colleagues were talking about, we had other legal opportunities to protect our market, to protect our producers, our agricultural producers first of all, but there was no interest in doing so. We are somehow constantly forgetting that Serbia has an agreement on duty-free exports to Russia of everything produced in Serbia. What do we do then when we organize peasants and organize these agricultural products to get out there, then someone from the area of the store gets involved, is it Rasim Ljajic, whether someone else is and then we surprise the Russians by sending them pork skins instead of our apples? So neither this law nor any law will help us if we don't get rid of that corrupt mentality and thieving at every step and on every corner, which unfortunately is still present in every segment of our country. You're saying again about this argument, why was it necessary to pass this law? Because the product stock market, as you said, only recognizes domestic legal persons as trading participants. What has arisen as a consequence of this and will unfortunately continue to be present? There was a monopoly on the purchase of raspberries. We're saying, I don't know how many years about it, that the state, or state competition commission, had to be involved and to prevent this monopolistic position of refrigerators, a certain number of refrigerators, we can name them all here, and we know who it is... You know, there's a man sitting in the National Assembly who cheers and dresses in determining and giving a license for the freezers. Then of course they can do whatever they want, they can do what they want and bring people, farmers, peasants into a situation that they can choose or destroy what they produce or give them at the price that suits them. So if we don't change what we're saying in all areas of the inspection service, the inspection bodies, don't trust us with the regulation problem, it's pretty well regulated in our country, the problem is with the application of regulations, that is, the problem is with the abuse of regulations, with corruption and with easily corrupt people in certain places. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58969	Thank you. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 9th amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Jovanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58970	Here, we come to the storage of goods, which is the subject of the stock exchange and Mr. Minister, indeed our Serbian Radicals, so I would ask Mr. Risticevic to prepare it for us for the next session of the Committee on Agriculture, who are the owners, which are all the companies, warehouses, where, according to the Storage Act, wheat and corn from the commodity reserves are stored. I'm going back to that story from a moment ago and let me tell you, there's no, I mean, in southern Serbia, there's me in Shumadia, it's rare, here, I have such an example in the nearest family, where there's a mill that's an old, milling family industry that's been doing very well in the realm of the Kings and the environment for over 110 years. Not only are they, but other people, have not had the opportunity to get that warehouse job, and they do quality work and normally are responsible people. It's already gone to this, to whoever issued those permits, who was messing with it, we just want to know which way and who is the one by which criteria it's determined? What is very important is that last year's country that sharpened the conditions for the storage of this goods spoken of by Radeta's co-worker, primarily the fruit in our fruit fields in Serbia, in new solutions and new conditions for refrigerators, must bear in mind that it is projected by the 2020 budget, to give more subsidies than they are now, behind those coolers. Because it is only then that these people are able, those who have the original product of Serbian, Serbian apple, pear and all that is produced, that through such storage they export to Russia, which is primarily the priority of the Serbian peasant, here's Topolski's whole neighborhood there, that I don't speak here Grock and everywhere where there are these ransom places.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58971	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 12th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Petar Jojic submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 17 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Rade. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58972	Here, we exchanged an opinion with the Government on Article 18 of this Bill, we proposed an amendment, the government said it couldn't accept it because it's only a legal-technical order, which is rather unusual, as counterpart Sreto Peric said, you don't want amendments that essentially change the law, you don't want these legal-technical, you're best to say -- we don't want amendments proposed by the opposition, so we know where we are. Of course, it wouldn't prevent us from, and it won't stop us from continuing to intervene with the amendments on your proposals. But, since we are about to end this debate today, Mr. Djordjevic, you are indeed so manly, to say, have held here all these debates of the MPs, which were really great, I hope you will agree with that, and many replicas, and many exchanges of political views, but also many words about the proposals of the law that we discussed today. You participated in this with the MPs and indeed showed that you are a true member of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, unlike Rasim Ljajic. Don't think we have any objections about you being here, because we insist on calling Rasim Ljajic. No, we're doing it because his obligation was long ago that even if he didn't have some bill that was within the jurisdiction of his ministry, the moment we started calling him out for what we called him for, he had an obligation and he had to come face-to-face with the MPs. If he still has the majority, so he would listen to us for a few hours, the majority would say – Rasim Ljajic is still the best, he will remain minister. And we're aware that we can't replace him, he's aware of that too, but obviously it's not easy to sit across from 22 people who will tell him the truth, and he knows that we're telling the truth, and he knows that with the truth and the information we've performed and say hello to him, tell him that he had to sit in front of the MPs, that he has to face what he did and tell him – we've told him SRS MPs, we've talked to him about trade these days, trade isn't just drug trafficking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58973	The 20th amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Stojanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58974	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Ministers with Associates, I have tabled an amendment to Article 20(3). Proposal for a stock exchange law. This government seems unaware that everything that comes from the EU is not good and is not applicable to our conditions. Of course, when you look at the name of the law, the world will immediately think it's a very important law. This is an important law, but the title of the law does not solve the problems it is brought about. We'd all like to eliminate all the problems in this area, but it's just not possible. The stock exchanges are usually unpredictable, so there is no law that will be able to predict and prevent any negative consequences. We should therefore consider only those problems that are caused by human factor by our actions or by our inaction. In my first amendment, I talked about the fact that the most developed industrial countries in the EU are directly or indirectly the most responsible for the emergence of stock market problems. The most developed countries in the EU are the most responsible ones that are driven by almost all stock exchange movements, but these same countries do not have other laws that will further free everyone, under the pretext that this is useful for them. If this law is passed only because the EU is asking for it, then it is better that we do not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-19-0.u58975	The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 21st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 22 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Marijan Risticevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 23 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 27 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Nikola Savic submitted to Article 31 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) As we have completed the search on all amendments, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. According to Article 87(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby appoint Monday, July 22nd, 2019, starting at 9pm, as the Day of Vote on the agenda of the 14th Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly.
