ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66459	Thank you, Chairman. Comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen, distinguished guests, on 7 November 2019, the Protector of Citizens, Mr. Zoran Pasalić, delivered the National Assembly – a proposal for the Deputy Protector of Citizens and this was proposed by Ms. Jelena Stojanović of the graduate lawyer, Dr. Natasa Tanjević, graduate lawyer and Mr. Slobodan Tomic, a graduate lawyer whose biographies you received in support of the proposal for this decision and report. On 4 December, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives had on the agenda to consider the Citizens' Protectors' Proposal and found that, on the basis of Article 48(1), paragraph 8. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, following consideration, established that the proposed candidates fulfil the conditions laid down in Article 6(6). The Civil Protection Act. We are very pleased with the proposal that the Citizens' Protector delivered. All of the proposed candidates indeed have impressive biographies and work experience, which suggest that this proposal should be supported and that we can expect in the coming period that this very important institution in full capacity and in full scope continue its work. We all know that the rights and responsibilities of the deputies we will honestly, I believe, are very important these days and can create even better conditions for the citizens of Serbia to exercise their rights in procedures, so that the Protector himself can commit a little more to his work, because simply the amount of work this institution has may well deserve and an even more number of employees who are practically in the whole system, and perhaps more deputies. It is evident that over the past few years more and more citizens of the Republic of Serbia have been addressing the Citizens' Protector, better informing citizens of the Republic of Serbia, what is the job of the Citizens' Protector than those first initial wanderings we have had, is now about to receive one real track. I am sure that by selecting these deputies proposed by the Protector, he obviously thought well, when he proposed these candidates, that part of Serbia's rights would be easier and faster to realise. I really have nothing more to add, the biographies and experiences of these people are very big, very serious. In their dealings, they showed that they deserved the trust of the National Assembly for such a serious and responsible task. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66460	Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's Messenger, Mirjana Dragas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66461	Thank you. Dear Chairman, representatives of the Citizens' Protectors, gentlemen, within the framework of the proposal to fill the post of Deputy Protector of the Citizens is always an opportunity to discuss this function a little more. In our society, this is a relatively new liquid that has been taken over from the international practice and solutions of EU countries, but aims to protect citizens' rights, fundamental human rights, rights to life, to work, freedom, social and health protection, and, of course, the Constitution provides for us. In any case, the basic task is for citizens to know what the Protector really is, to address him for all the irregularities they encounter in their lives and work, to know who to turn to and from whom to seek professional help. The protection of citizens, in this sense, first of all, controls the legality and regularity of the work of the Authority, participates in the construction of the legal system, proposes changes in laws and practices, so that the rule of law and the functioning of the authorities and all services in favour of the rights of citizens, their best protection and security are improved. In this role, the Protector's task and their service is to communicate directly, receive their complaints and performances, but also speak directly to citizens. I would like to point out that the report, which this service gave some time ago to the National Assembly, pointed out that nearly 9,000 citizens have addressed this service in the meantime. From what I've seen, almost three thousand or more this year. In a number of cases, these are, of course, written performances, etc., but I am putting the accent on those direct contacts that I consider to be much better and much more relevant because, with my approach and the mutually direct relationship of citizens and the services themselves, more significant, more direct data on the problems that citizens face. Based on knowledge of a particular problem, the Protector's task is to conduct an independent and impartial investigation against all public authorities, whether there are services, state administration, other bodies, businesses, etc. and their task is to make it clear that there are irregularities in the work against legal acts that are injure citizens' rights. Those who are elected, in this case and the Protector himself, his deputies and the entire service, are expected to fully respect and work to protect the rights of citizens who are guaranteed by law and constitution. In that sense, I will point out that this service and the Guardian himself plays a role in affecting the work of the organs, looking for a solution to the problems that have arisen, but that it has both a preventive and educational role. That is why it is of multiple significance and appears as a multi-level function and in several services. That's, among other things, I'm going to figuratively say, the fight against what we've been facing for decades before when we go to finish some work on citizens' rights and come to the counter and get an answer, the famous one -- you need another piece of paper. It is also the ineffectiveness of the service or officials of individual, irresponsible to their own business, when they say, for example, the citizen is not there, not answering the phone; that is, again, under the pretext "I can't work as little as I can, how little they can pay me". So, what's important, which is a major shift in these services, I will certainly repeat it, or point out, electronic administration, because the computer doesn't even know slowness and irresponsibility, has a certain speed and accuracy, and in this sense every kind of education and shift in this relationship requires and builds responsibility, I think it's of great importance. I want to point out why, according to the Civil Protection Officer's report, they complain the most. First of all, these are social benefits, pensions, for example, unpaid salaries, contributions, the work of the perpetrators, the inspection of courts etc. It can be seen that many citizens who are in a working relationship, whether at a certain time or indefinitely, suffer failures or employers' intentions not to pay what is legally theirs, whether the wage is small or irregular. In our society, we can see that children, women, disabled people, and people with special needs, aged and poor remain under the greatest pressure. Why am I pointing this out, and what do I think is important here? The Ombudsman is obliged, as he does, to send the reports of his work to the Prime Minister, the Government, the National Assembly and courts, prosecutors and the Constitutional Court on a regular basis. I think it is not enough that this service itself is fighting for the constitutionality and legality of work, to correct all possible irregularities in the work, but these reports not only serve to consider, but to insist and decide both the government and all ministries and all other bodies to give this a guideline in resolving those issues that citizens have been doing for years in their removal and more effective work. If we succeed with the help of the Citizens' Protector, but also our own relationship with increased responsibility, work and respect for laws and legality, we will create a country that will benefit the citizens, then we will certainly have satisfaction for the citizens, because on the one hand, Serbia has certainly shown and achieved exceptional economic results for the past few years. It has also achieved an exceptional position and respect on the international plan in co-operation with other countries, through the Foreign Ministry, to fight for the achievement of national interests. It is up to us to create, in addition to these global conditions, conditions that will be achieved to the fullest extent possible for citizens to be more content with their own country. If the national interest is realised, if the economic interest is achieved and the greater and safer wages and pensions, the employment process, health care, the right to education, etc., and if there are fewer problems and failures in the work of individual bodies, it is certain that citizens will be more satisfied, there will be fewer who will want to leave Serbia, and more and more who will be doing their work here, and those who will want to return to Serbia. So, as far as this service is concerned, I think her reports should be correct in the work of the organs. We are aware that we are working and living at a time of strengthening capitalism. Here, fortunately, the rush and euphoria of liberal capitalism, which has proved to us in previous years, from 2000 to 2010, has passed, but in any case, our task, in addition to developing a market economy, must be to develop a socially responsible market and state. The socially responsible market requires employers to adequately evaluate their work, and the socially responsible state fulfils all its social functions towards the public and in this regard demonstrates its full responsibility. So, once again, citizens will be more content, more legal and humanely protected, and that will make them more determined to work in this country. Here, just yesterday was the Day of the Protector of Citizens, that is, Human Rights. It is a major democratic fluid of modern, orderly states, of course, the state of Europe when we say so, etc., those belonging to the EU, which is particularly commendable and proud. But for example, no one in these countries looks back and asks where human rights and the role of the Protectors of citizens are and whether they exist, for example, in Kosovo and Metohija, who insist on declaring the state. So there's no respect for human rights, there's no right to live, there's no right to move. Our commitment to developing international relations must be growing in this direction to seek exactly that part of our country in Kosovo and Metohija, whoever is exercising local authority there, that it must respect European fluids, global fluids and democratic rights. That's what we need more and more to insist on. Just a few more sentences. Just yesterday, on Human Rights Day, I'm going to point out, and I consider myself the Protector of Citizens, for example. The Nobel Committee in Stockholm awarded the Nobel Prize for Literature to Peter Handke, a brave man who, as a few, searched for the truth of the 1990s and stood in defense of truth, justice equal and accessible to all, in defense of human rights equal for all. He says himself – I want to meet the mother from Kravica and the mother from Srebrenica. That's all there is to it, and that's all there is to life together. The Serbian people precisely because they had this attitude in the 1990s have a historic obligation to thank him and celebrate him, because there are few in the world who did not want to close their eyes on the dictatorship of force. It would therefore be the greatest and bravest to establish, for example. A great reward for respecting human rights by the name of this brave but above all great writer. Thank him for the truth and for the justice. And it's being attacked, as we can see, by those who embraced lies and fraud and formed into it. The more they attack him, the higher he gets. The reward can be local, it can be worldly, because the brave and worthy remain loyal to truth, justice and justice, always and everywhere. Let us therefore be loyal and responsible for building a modern state that is in the service of its citizens. In this way we must justify ourselves, our efforts to build a modern Serbia in modern society, protect citizens, protect rights, and protect no matter where our people are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66462	Thank you. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66463	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think this session is felerical, that is, this part of the agenda, for the simple reason that it is not a proposing here, Mr Pasalic. It's kind of awkward to talk about his suggestions in his absence. The last time he was in the National Assembly, here, as the people would say, he spent his time barefooting the thorn because of a misunderstanding or a lack of good communication among the MPs of power, he was blamed because the session was an hour late. I thought I'd calm his conscience today, tell him that two days ago, we started sitting at an hour and a half late because the ruling coalition couldn't secure the quorum. And then the quorum was complemented, i.e. the quorum by lawmakers from Canko's party and these SMS parties, some modern Serbia, and these are the MPs who stole the mandates from whose lists came to the National Assembly. In this context, we thought it would be good to also talk to the Citizens' Protector, who is not the Citizens' Protector only when someone is talking to him, but he must take general care of the protection of all Serbian citizens, and certainly, especially the protection of voters' rights. We wanted to ask him if the SRS, our parliamentary group, has his support for a proposal that we have submitted to the National Assembly for 14 months and we ask that the Law on the election of MPs be amended and that the provision of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which says that the MP is free to make his mandate available to the political party whose lists he has been elected as a member of parliament. We also proposed in this law to change the law by making the lists of candidates for MPs in the parties or coalitions that go to the elections, but that the free will of these parties would be to deploy mandates after the elections. We really think the Citizens' Protector would be a good talker on this subject, but unfortunately he's not here and, worse still, no one told us why he's not here today. Is it a misunderstanding again, so he'll be here in an hour or a man is away somewhere, and we remember very well that the President of the National Assembly last time, when she broke down the trees and stones on him, drew attention and said that for the Guardian of Citizens at the time of the scheduled session on his report, and today his proposal for his deputies can't be anything more important in this world, which we agree with anyway. Mr Pasalic, as the Protector of Citizens, has been advertised in the media these days and the fact is that some of his statements were in place and in line with the function that the Citizens' Protector should perform. As far as we from the SRS are concerned, our position that we don't need this function in the system at all is not changed, because everything that should be done or done by the Protector with his service, even now that he's helped with these three deputies, there are certain authorities that need to do his job, and this is how you don't know what's going on in the end. The public defender then says that citizens are increasingly addressing him with complaints concerning socio-economic problems, such as social contributions, pensions, unpaid salaries, contributions and says that we have put, you, the Citizens' Protector, put a focus on labour inspections, and the Citizens' Protector responds and points to systemic problems in each of these cases. Look where we've come from. Instead of the competent ministry reacting when it comes to labour inspection, this is passed on to the Citizens' Protector who has no jurisdiction that no inspector has to listen to. They don't listen to the Minister, let alone obey the Protector of the Citizens. It is the problem in the system, in the functioning of the institutions of the system in Serbia, and then the government gets angry when it gets such a remark. Of course, we are not the ones who will place objections on either purpose, nor order, but fully justified and in the interest of all people living in Serbia. In that interview, Mr Pasalic said he was being addressed by his employees, whether they were employed indefinitely or indefinitely. This topic is also interesting to us, so you pretty ladies tell Mr. Pasalic everything we wanted to talk to him about, and hopefully he'd be willing to show good will for co-operation, because what he suggested in the media is just going in that direction. Now we're wondering, if he were there, we'd ask him, what does he generally think of Serbia's problem for a certain time? What does that mean? This means that local self-government, state authorities, public enterprises and republican and local, or municipal, are mass hiring people for a certain period of time. This is mainly done prior to the appointment of some elections and then people who are employed have an obligation, because they are employed through states that are in power, that at the end of the election day, there on some municipal board, they bring their phone where at least 10 ballots are taken where voters have been shown to vote for the ruling party. It's unconstitutional, it's illegal, it's the harshest violation of free will, the electoral will of citizens, and I believe Mr Pasalic would share our opinion and, I repeat, it's a pity that he's not here to discuss it that way. So, the law regulates how many employees there can be for a certain time, but the question is, if some institution, some public enterprise, some local self-government, in a particular workplace, needs to employ people for a certain period of time, what is the problem with a permanent job, except that the government is losing one activist who will provide safe votes? It's also illegal. That is why it would be good for the Protector to refer to both the public and his report to the National Assembly. Of course, to check everything, to talk to these people who are so busy, because if a young man is employed for a certain time, then it's a serious problem because that young man can't move, do anything in life, can't literally even use citizens' checks, let alone take some credit to buy a car or, God forbid, a long-term loan to buy an apartment etc. So it's not just what he's doing, so someone's going to say it's going to go on every three months working relationship. That is true, but uncertainty is high and cannot satisfy the basic economic needs of someone who does so. What's the next problem? When it comes to paying minimum earnings, so-called. minimum wage, still minimal in Serbia, 27,022 dinars. The government has decided that since the beginning of the next calendar year it will be 30,022 dinars. We have two problems here now. One is that a large number of employers, and everyone in power knows that, even no one has ever denied it, and it would be good if the Protector of the Citizens and that entertainment paid off that minimumer, as prescribed, and then the employees had to pay him back five thousand dinars in cash. It's been going on for years. Of course, there are some who do damage to employees in the future, which pays even some dinar more than that minimumer, but the difference over the minimumer pays in cash, and then this is reflected after contributions when the time for retirement comes. So there's a lot of anomalies in that system. It would really be good for the Citizens' Protector to deal with these systemic problems with his service, to solve these systemic problems. When he spoke, as he said here, and discussed pensions, salaries, unpaid contributions, etc., we would like to ask him if he was in agreement with the SRS's position that today's minimum wage and minimum pension must be at least 37,000 dinars. For what? Because according to statistics, the lowest consumer basket costs exactly 37,000 dinars. You can't think of someone receiving a already earned pension, a long-earned one, or a profit earned at the moment, if it amounts to less than a consumer basket. Anything less than a consumer basket is social aid. If someone's busy, what he's earning isn't social aid, there's got to be pay, and in order to be paid, there's got to be a living, to survive a bar. It's something completely logical, completely normal, especially in the state of Serbia where the government bombes us every day with a story about some money, a surplus, they don't know what the money's going to do. We tell them where to spend it. About 250,000 people work for the minimumer, and about 400,000 for just a little more than the minimum, and minimum pensions that are somewhere around 10-12 thousand receive almost half a million people. Do you know when the government, when we talk about pensions, is the subject of the Guardian of Citizens – what does he think about the fact that the government does not want to repay pensions that it illegally for four years, illegally and do not have the Constitutional Court's decision to appeal because the Constitutional Court said that this law on the withdrawal of pensions is temporary and that the Constitutional Court is not going to declare that proposal, that is, the law? So these pensions have been reduced for four years. Meanwhile, that level has returned, but what has been taken from anyone for four years has not yet been restored. So we're now asking, and we'd also ask the Citizens' Protector that there's -- if some pensioners or more pensioners turn, say, to the Strasbourg court, and if the state has to pay back that money, who's going to be responsible for why the state came down and that the state budget should eventually experience the fact that they have to pay off huge amounts of money on behalf of those pensioners who have been illegally taken away, here, I won't be rude to say stolen, but illegally taken away anyway? Then when we talk about it, then these authorities say, I don't know -- 600,000 pensioners or how much it wasn't affected by those pension cuts. Well, they can't brag about it, because that means that those pensions are so small, they had nothing to take that away from them. And that's also the problem this way now that you add all of this to Serbia from people who receive either that minimum wage or pension more than a million is below the lowest consumer basket, and that problem has to be solved by the state, it really has to. The public defender also, that's where I wanted to commend him, tell him, make a nice statement about the problem with the perpetrators. This is indeed a serious problem and said the Citizens' Protector that, regardless of the benefits now being reduced for the perpetrators, he said well - because of the way in which certain types of compensation their amounts are still too high, thus turning into a kind of punishment and particularly endangering citizens of poor material status. The Protector says - it is therefore necessary to review the public enforcement tariff by taking care of the general economic and social conditions of life in order not to existentially endanger citizens. Where are you going to pose a greater existential threat than to have someone take your apartment? The perpetrators do it all the time. They boast how many thousands of apartments have been taken away from people and now that the Guardian of Citizens is here we would ask him – what is his relationship to the SRS proposal that public executioners should be abolished, that the procedure of execution and security should be returned to the jurisdiction of the courts, that anyone who is obliged must repay his debt, but that no one should be left without an apartment or at least 12 square meters per member of the household? This is our proposal, which has supported more than 100,000 citizens of Serbia and has been standing in the National Assembly for more than three months, not even a proposal has been forwarded to the government of the Republic of Serbia to give its opinion as usual. Therefore, the government has disobeyed more than 100,000 citizens of Serbia and the proposal of the largest political opposition party in the National Assembly. That's how, you know, they were deafening our proposals when it came to the settlement of the Rules of Procedure, the situation in the National Assembly, the strengthening of democracy, parliamentary democracy. They didn't listen to us, and then there's this guy, Flankenstein, and this guy from the white world, some out-of-the-box clerks, they're giving them orders, and they're starting to do it faster. And that's what we'd like to talk to the Citizens' Protector, but here he is today, and we're very sorry because we'd also ask him – what does he think about ending the Index affair? The question is whether there will still be limitations because this is a first-degree decision. After 15 years, the problem was solved then for the first time on the wide-opened sales of exams and diplomats at the Faculty of Law in Kragujevac and now the authorities will boast that after 15 years they have solved the problem, and we ask through you the Protector of Citizens – what does he think of the fate of these diplomas and these exams on which these people were arrested and today they are tried? Do you admit what they gave for the money? How could they, for example, work as professors to this day? One was a dean. One lady was in that former government assistant minister. They've been handing over and interrogating students all these 15 years. What is the fate of these diplomas and these exams, if they judged people who were accused of crime and now finally and convicted? Then we remember that when we were elected here Mr. Pasalić to this function of the Guardian of Citizens, then we asked him – who broke his average because he finished the college with an average of 6.1 and then we see that his average of regular and regular college studies is something that should be praised for everything that's been going on for 15 years, which is happening today, which the minister says has 50,000 diplomas that are suspicious, so we would also ask the Citizens' Protector – would you be involved, along with the ministry, to form some working body that, the working body of educated people who have regularly acquired diplomas, who will examine all of this and that we know more who has the fake diploma, who has a regular diploma? You see, for example, with these professors from Kragujevac, people with fake diplomas do their job and create new problems. How does every student who may have actually learned and passed feel now that he knows that he passed the exam with a criminal professor who gave grades for money? So, there are a lot of problems to discuss, and as far as Mr Pasalic's proposal for his deputies is concerned, the position of the SRS, I end my colleague Arsic, is always that whoever is the authority at a certain level that he has the right to propose his associates, to propose certain functions, and we never accept it, and we do not admit that it is non-party personalities, quite certain that all of you who are on certain functions today are close to the breaks in power and may be, we are not hypocrites. Whoever's in power has the right to propose his people wherever they want. Comrade Arsic, please finish this sentence. We are not going to make these suggestions, only a little suspicious that one of the proposals here is one of the ladies who graduated from Union College, perhaps we should have waited to settle these affairs around various private colleges and sell diplomas and yet propose someone who has graduated from the state college. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66464	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66465	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. I'm reporting under Article 27. I just want to inform the MPs and Mrs. Verice Radet that Mr. Pasalic, the Citizens' Protector, will be joining us around 1400 hours. He is on an official visit to Cyprus. Cyprus is a friendly country to the Republic of Serbia. That visit had been shown before. Under the circumstances, we have discussed his proposals for Deputy Protectors of Citizens started today, but Mr Pasalic will join us in about three hours, so you will have the opportunity to ask him all these questions that you have asked him for a moment. What I wanted to say was two things. The first thing is that I am not finally clear on Mrs. Radete's position, relating to the institution of the Protector of Citizens. She says we don't need that institution, and I just want to remind her that the institution of the Protector is a constitutional category. Also, I would like to remind her that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia was in a referendum and that, among other things, the Serbian Radical Party, then a unique one, this constitution would not have passed in the referendum. So I'm surprised now, after so many years, that there's been a change of attitude about something that's constitutional matter. As for the fleet that is repeated from Sunday to Sunday, from month to month, that the state of Serbia has taken something away from the pensioners, again to remind Mrs Radet that there is a measuring decision of the Constitutional Court of Serbia, which said that the Law on the temporary regulation of the way pensions are paid in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and when something is in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, such as this law, can't be said of any abduction. Well, that's just as much as I hope we'll discuss moving on in a constructive tone, the way we started it.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66466	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger of the Faith of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66467	Article 27(1) In fact, I just wanted to say that fellow Martinovic is what he just said he should have said at the beginning. Because maybe I wouldn't talk until Mr. Pasalic's here. I want to talk to him right now. Simply, and because of Mr. Pasalic, it was necessary at the beginning of the session for the National Assembly to be informed. Something like this happened last time, so he, a man, neither guilty nor debtor, had to blush in front of you what you told him, because he was late for the session. So we should have been told at first where Mr. Pasalic is. As for our position on that so-called. to independent institutions, it's true that this is a constitutional institute, but, you know, we didn't say we shouldn't, that we're not going to choose the Guardian of Citizens because we have an obligation to the Constitution, but it doesn't mean we can't have a certain opinion on it. It is true that we were the ones who contributed to the adoption of the Constitution then and it is true, Mr Martinovic, that the Serbian Radical Party is yet unique. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66468	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66469	Article 107, Mr. Arsic. I was talking about the period when the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia was written and when the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia was voted in the National Assembly, which was, if I am not mistaken, and as you well know, in 2006. So I was talking about the period before there was a break-up in the SRS. Also, I would like to remind you that in these writing negotiations the Constitution has just been attended by a man who, for some reason, is your nightmare, which is Tomislav Nikolic. He was a representative of the SRS and he received direct instructions from Vojislav Seselj on what is acceptable for the SRS and what is not acceptable in the draft constitution. We agree that there was no SRS, then unique, with Tomislav Nikolic as vice-president of the SRS, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which, among other things, implies not only the institution of the Protectors of Citizens, but also the preamble of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia under which Kosovo and Metohija are an integral part of the Republic of Serbia, and in the normative part of KIM is defined as an autonomous province in the composition of the Republic of Serbia, therefore, that there was no such and such a unique SRS, it would be difficult for the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia to pass the referendum. Because, as you remember, the Democratic Party and Boris Tadic formally supported the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, but on the ground, the DS municipal committees have been actively boycotting the referendum, or calling on their members not to have a referendum to come out. We were then determined to support the Constitution, because we knew that this was a critical moment for Serbia's defence state, especially when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija, and, of course, it was acceptable for us and for us to become part of constitutional matter also the institution of the Protector of Citizens, because it is an institution that exists today in more than a hundred countries in the world and we felt there was no reason for the Citizens' Protector to become a state body in the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66470	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger of the Faith of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66471	It's clear that this has turned into certain replicas, but I hope you won't mind me saying a few sentences based on Article 27. A lot of what counterpart Martinovic said is true, and above all, the fact that at the time of this constitution there was a serious political reason, the patriotic reasons for the constitution to be passed. Of course, everything that is written in the Constitution is not ideal, but what was very important, related to the survival of the single state and something that still serves us today to say that Kosovo and Metohija is an integral part of the Republic of Serbia, was the reason why we actively participated in the adoption and vote of this constitution. But fellow Martinovic knows well what segments did not enter this Constitution which we discussed and which should have been an integral part of this Constitution. And that nightmare, under the quotes of the nightmare, has really done some things that were the opposite of what we agreed on, but I think we'll have a chance to talk about it wider when those changes to the Constitution that you're planning come to the agenda. For the record, we don't turn out to be ignorant when we say that the Guardian of Citizens is one of those so-called functions. independent, which does not, in essence, matter at all. That's a fact. And what's foreseen by the Constitution, let's agree to give the Guardian citizens much broader powers, that what he's doing can actually and can accomplish and that not only give an interview to the newspaper, but that he can really do something when that inspector doesn't go out on the field or on his orders. You'll agree that those of you who are his associates that this is a serious problem and that it comes down to you doing the right thing, maybe kill yourself from work, and there's no effect, because what you're doing is practically not binding on anyone. We're not good with the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66472	Thank you. The word is made by MP Borisav Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66473	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'd like to say one by one a significant thing for the MP's group, and also for the PAPS. Here in the Assembly is very often heard this thesis, also mentioned by Mr Martinovic, about the fact that someone kidnapped pensioners. You know, it's not only not true, it's insulting the pensioners. We have made it clear and public that the pensioners knowingly gave up that part of the pension to contribute to the country's step out of the difficult situation in which it was found. That this is true evidence is that in the political platform of the PUPS, adopted at the Party Congress, you will find a unanimous attitude to accept this reduction and to know why it is done and that the pensioners therefore feel certain pride that they can help their country at a difficult time. So please don't use the retirement term anymore. You pay whatever you want, but don't pay for your pensions, because every time you insult your pensioners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66474	Right on the line, the People's Messenger of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66475	I don't know what pensioners we're insulting, but there's a large number of pensioners who really insist on getting back at them that what I'm about to tell them is stolen, to be so very specific. A large number of pensioners announces they will seek protection in the Strasbourg court. I understand some pensioners who are now looking for a place under the sun, the elections are coming up, they need to be placed on a list, but it's not fair, it insults pensioners, that someone called the Retirement Party to discuss pensioners in this way. Those flossules that the pensioners agree with it, whoever's agreed to take away something that they live on? Who asked if he agreed to cut pensions or not to cut pensions? Let it go, you've been saying it for years. Here's the pensioners. They're pretty grateful someone put their hand in their pocket. No, of course not. Of course they're happy that pensions get regular, but what they hear in the media is that fear, if it's someone else you won't get your pensions. Now, that's the gratitude of the pensioners, not because, well, they're not crazy people to say -- here's the thing, and this is how I barely live my pension, so somebody else takes that, I don't know what, he does with that money. They're stories for little kids. We don't insult pensioners, and some gentleman representing a pensioner's party says, "Is a pension of 12,000 dinars retired or is it social giving?" Can pensioners or pensioners live with a pension of 15,000 dinars and how does a million pensioners survive with pensions below minimum and below the consumer basket?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66476	Right on line, MP Borisav Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66477	We're playing chicken again, if anyone knows what that means, kids playing with rocks. Mrs. Radeta has now used some alleged evidence. First, if there were pensioners looking for a refund of those funds, of course. Of course there is, as in everything that happens in this country, you do not have absolute unanimity, but there are always others. Another thing that she's made here as an argument – how in God's name can those pensioners who get their hands in their pocket be satisfied and only have 15,000 dinars? That's why the pensioners and the party accepted it, because the state took care of it and because they didn't take care of those people who had little pensions, until then, the average, they didn't take anything. It was seen that the state was doing it correctly, not taking a pension. That's exactly the argument that pensions weren't taken, because if they were taken, they'd be taken from those with 20,000 dinars, and they weren't taken from them. So don't let us use any unacceptable alleged arguments.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66478	Right on the line, the People's Messenger of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66479	Here, some fellow Kovacevic, it would be best if he brought here a list or if we could publish a list of pensioners who signed their consent to take away their pensions. I think that would be so correct and we'd finally end up with that story. You're the Retirement Party, and you must have that record. Correct, precise, but please place your name at the beginning. Did you give consent to your retirement? No, it's not fair to people, according to the name of your party. We don't want to confront you in any way here, but you started a debate that wasn't appropriate. Someone named Retirement Party says no one's been taking anybody's pensions, I said he's been kidnapped, you say he's taken whatever. If someone takes some money from you and you don't agree to it, what's it called, please? What's it called, here, teach me this stupid? Don't say that. Make sure you keep talking to your voters. I told you in my first address, not to you, but I said, if 600,000 pensioners aren't covered by pension cuts, so imagine how small pensions are, poor pensions when you didn't have anything to take from them. Did you tell the pensioners in the campaign? Did you win votes in that name? I now invite you as a representative of this party, tell the pensioners do you agree that nearly half a million pensioners live with a pension that is less than social aid? Tell me it's not like that, if it isn't. It's very simple.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66480	Right on line, MP Borisav Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66481	I don't know if I've been so vague in what I said, that Mrs. Radeta is now re-launching a question and a topic that I haven't answered. So here in no form were they affected, damaged in any way by pensioners with small pensions. Of course we think, ma'am, that pensions are small and of course everyone here thinks that there's a large number of pensioners with small pensions. But that wasn't the question I answered. Let's open up a debate about it and when it's time, that's what I talked about once, etc., and when pension increases are indicated, pensions will be increased by five and some percent, and wages from eight to 15%, that will make a difference, but that's another question. I didn't answer about it. That, did we make lists which of the pensioners agreed, I don't know how you do in your party, but we think that the decisions of the congress party are relevant in the party and that's where we had the attitude and I made it out. So, did we make and if we're going to make lists leave it to us, and you in your party do what you want.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66482	Right on the line, the People's Messenger of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66483	I didn't say that you're making a list of your members, but since you claim that the pensioners made a voluntary contribution to the state, that's what you can call it, just so we can see a list of who signed his consent to take away part of his pension the four years his pensions were taken away. That's all I asked. Obviously we agree, you understand, and you accept that pensions are small, so I suggest you support the position of the SRS that the smallest pension must be 37,000 dinars, because the lowest consumer basket is 37,000 dinars. Here, as a party representing pensioners, believe me, you'll steal our votes if you support it, but we really care about pensions being the lowest 37,000 dinars and the lowest salary to be the minimum minimum of 37,000 dinars. We expect that you as a socially responsible party, I think that's what it says, will support the SRS' proposal for such a thing. Don't make an impression on some people here in the O.R. or some who aren't in the O.R., so don't humiliate your voters, you. You said earlier that I was insulting or humiliating the pensioners. How is it possible for me to insult pensioners if I express the view of the SRS that the smallest pension must be 37,000 dinars, because less than that cannot be lived because the consumer basket is 37,000 dinars? You say that's how we insult pensioners. You insult the pensioners if you claim that they voluntarily gave money and that you are against it. You may be opposed to someone talking to a court, here or international or wherever, giving him back that money he thinks he's stolen. Why would that bother you? Because another retirement party has been formed to represent it. We don't get into those relationships, really. I repeat again, we have no intention of confronting you, just please accept our proposal, because of all pensioners who would certainly, believe me, be happy to make a decision to make the smallest pension of 37,000 dinars.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66484	The People's MP Borisav Kovacevic has the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66485	I talk about one thing all the time, and you talk about the other. I didn't say and don't push like a chicken egg, I didn't say if you were or weren't right, or pleading whether you needed the smallest pension to be 37,000 etc. It wasn't a topic here at all. When we talk about it, we know what attitude we will take. You say, "Take care, the pensioners listen to you, will you have votes?" You gather the votes the way you think, and the pensioners, and we're running the party the way we think we should and we haven't had any confrontations so far, no attitudes, no pensioners, no party members. I'll remind you that we spoke on the subject earlier, because he was at the creamworks session through the agenda for that. And then, if you remember, we said that pensions have to be bigger and they have to get closer and even with the consumer basket. Therefore, it is not disputed. But don't make it look like you're worried about what the pensioners are gonna say about you fighting that way for them, and we're not. They know very well what the party's views are on all issues, including the consumer basket. I wouldn't go any further. I won't answer again.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66486	Right to the replica of the People's Messenger of the Faith of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66487	Mr. Kovacevic, when you enter replicas, then you cannot dictate to the speaker what he will say. I didn't come out of the subject that you opened here. So, the subject is pensioner status, in the broadest sense of the word, you started it yourself. So, the SRS' position is that the lowest pension and minimum earnings in Serbia must not be below 37,000 dinars, because the lowest consumer basket is 37,000 dinars and we do not address anyone in particular. We simply want the public to know that this is our position and through the debate on the budget, we have explained in detail where everything is possible to take the funds to provide enough resources for these purposes. I'm sorry you can't say it that way, you say it – you said it at your congress, your members know it, etc. There's no topic here at all about anyone's congress, it's not about the status of political parties, etc. We are the People's Messengers. We here represent the views, of course, of our political programmes, the attitudes of your political parties, but your problem may be that you do not have a complete coma to talk about these views from your congress, etc. We can't help you with that. We can speak and always speak, and we are known to always say what our clear, precise, unchanged and consistent attitudes are and we have never managed daily politics, we have always expressed principled attitudes and we have never asked how much it costs politically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66488	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is Veroljub Arsic. Here you go, colleague Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66489	According to the Rules of Procedure, dignity, because there is always a claim that someone was robbed. It can't be a reduction in pension robbery, because it's passed law. Robbery involves illegal activity and illegal action. The other thing is, people's MPs and their intelligence are being humiliated. The average pension today in Serbia is over 23,000 dinars. So to reach a magic figure of 37,000 dinars, it takes nearly 14,000 dinars per pensioner, and it's over a million. But to take the worst variant, to take the preferred variant, by the idea that the SRS stands for, to be just a million, that's 14 billion every month, times 12 months, that's 158 or 168 billion, I can't figure it out by heart. I'd like to see that someone calculates it, to shut down all the agencies, to shut down the Ministry of Defense, to shut down the Home Office, we can provide funds. Another thing, regarding minimum consumer baskets and minimum earnings, say – 37,000 dinars. It should also be a pension, 37,000 dinars for a four-member household, not for one or two pensioners, not for one or two employees. So, let's get this straight, the demagogue they're dealing with. What would they have as a consequence? First, the state would have to stand out even more for employees of state administration authorities, on the one hand. Let's say they'd provide funds. And what about small and medium-sized enterprises fighting the market to be competitive and to enable their employees and higher wages? She'd be locked up. Now, such promises -- we're programming for this, but we don't know how we're going to implement, except to ruin the country, are cheap political points and not knowing the basic rules of the economy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66490	Thank you, colleague Arsic. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. The word is "Verica Radet." Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66491	Rules of Procedure, Rule 27, although it's very difficult to say anything after such an economic and legal expert, but I have to. So it's not about any cheap political points and we talked about it a lot. Once again, the view of the SRS is that the lowest pension and minimum earnings must be 37,000 dinars, because it is the value of the lowest consumer basket. That's one thing. The second thing, I never said that pensioners were robbed, on the spot made up, so that a fellow legal expert would explain what a robbery means, but I said that pensions were kidnapped. A fellow lawyer, Arsic, if someone takes something from you, and has no consent to it, is that right, fellow Martinovic, a judicial verdict, he kidnapped you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66492	Thank you, colleague Radeta. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. Comrade Arsic, here you are, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66493	Infringement of Rules 101, this is not a private relationship but a legal issue and in that is the difference between the law and the bonding relationship between private contractors, but I am not a lawyer, that is what a colleague of Radeta should know. But what I do know is that one who receives 37,000 dinars, as they say is a minimum consumer basket, can you explain to me whether he can receive a pension of 37,000 dinars? Can an employee take the same pension as he's been getting paid somewhere in the world? Here, find me somewhere in the world. I guess the employee has extra expenses for going to work, coming home from work, meals outside the family, etc. etc. That's why they have employees with higher salaries than they'd have pensions. The second thing, it means 37,000 dinars, in order to have 37,000 dinars of pension, he has to pay the contributions that are retail, if not bigger than his salary, who's going to pay it? All the people in Serbia will go away, our investors, the domestics you've been looking for, will run away with their heads no matter what. It's a total ignorance. Furthermore, once again unknown, if someone spends their entire lives on the basis of a profit like 50,000 dinars, whether he can have the same pension, which they advocate, his pension would be about 37,000 dinars, as well as the one who paid at 28,000, 29,000 and 30,000 dinars. It's already kidnapping. It's a communist ideology already. We all have to be the same. No, we're all the same under the law, but I expect those rights that belong to us in proportion to our participation in those rights. So it can't be arbitrary. One more thing. I can't figure out where the financial structure was made that would be sustainable except to build the same financial structure as in 2008 when we borrowed from credit to the state to score political points.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66494	Thank you, colleague Arsic. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in Vote Day? No, I don't. Mrs. Radeta, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66495	Arsic just suggested that you interrupt the session of the National Assembly, and here I am by the same member...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66496	No need, this is a very interesting debate, especially for me.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66497	He submitted Article 101. Here, I'll do Article 101 of Section 4. So it is an interesting debate, but as much as a colleague gets angry, there's no reason to jump, no reason to yell, political parties have the right to their views. I am sorry that the people of Serbian radicals hear that the government does not want to accept the SRS proposal, that the lowest pension in Serbia must be 37,000 dinars and that the lowest profit so-called. The minimum minimum must be 37,000 dinars, because the Statistics Institute said the lowest consumer basket costs 37,000 dinars. So someone might like it, they might not like it. We have also explained how resources can be provided and there is no reason now for the people to hear that we want to bring down the state because we want the people of the country to live better. No, we want in a country where there's a lot of money, we just listen to government representatives, in a country where there's a lot of money, in a country where there's a lot of investment in infrastructure, which we support, infrastructure, which we support, in a country where they say those who cut the tapes so they don't know how many investors have come. So, they're making money from all sides of the country, and we want our pensioners and our employees to have the lowest pension, which is the minimum profit of 37,000 dinars, so they can cover the consumer basket that's the lowest of 37,000 dinars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66498	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. Veroljub Arsic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66499	Article 104. Here's how, 107th dignity, the state cannot, i.e. by administrative measures, try to make political success because we had one such situation in 2008 at the time of Boris Tadic. Do we want them back in 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012. Honestly, I don't want to. I still haven't received, so the political goals are one thing, the reality of life is another, I haven't received an answer as to how and from which funds such pensions will be financed and I haven't received an answer to keep the employers either domestic or foreign, that without their consent we increase the minimum labour price without agreement with the unions, with the Union of employers and so on because it's someone's political programme. It was at the time of the SKJ when workers' councils and trade unions ran a state that constantly printed money and thus the rules of prosperity, and today we pay off those loans that were raised in the '70s and '80s. To be clear, such an economic system is not sustainable. We want to have a sustainable economic system in which profits and pensions will come from real sources as a result of the real sector's work and as a result of the conditions that the Government of the Republic of Serbia's economic, macroeconomic conditions set by the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. That's our goal, everything else beyond that would make us this, we would do that, but no one knows how, for me pure political demagogy is for the cheapest and most earthly political points.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66500	Thank you, colleague Arsic. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. The word is "Veriza Radeta". Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66501	Article 107(1) Interesting thinking, administrative measures can harm the people, and administrative measures for the benefit of the people cannot. And what if it's not an administrative measure to cut wages and pensions? What? It's an administrative measure. What is an administrative measure to determine the minimumer? When the minister says, last year, or for this year, we skipped a 27,000-digit magic number, and determined that it was 27,022 dinars, he now skipped a 30,000-digit magic figure and will be a minimum of 30,022 dinars for next year. So, I'm going to repeat the SRS position again, and we're saying that this is real and that it's possible, that the lowest profit in Serbia should be 37,000 dinars and the lowest pension should be 37,000 dinars. No one really has any reason to be angry when we say so. We claim it's possible and it's not any demagogy, it's something that's real. Now, what someone has other plans, other thoughts, that's also legitimate, we don't argue. Everyone's right. You say, the lowest profit is 30,000 dinars, we say that's the level of social protection. The lowest profit must be 37,000 dinars. Must match the lowest consumer basket. You say the average pension is about 22,000 dinars, as many as your colleague said, we say about half a million pensioners receive much less than that, receiving between 10,000 and 15,000 dinars. We argue that it is possible and that the lowest pension in Serbia needs to be 37,000 dinars. It's just our attitude, our claim, and we don't know why it bothers you. Don't be angry, we're having a nice conversation. You are making your views known, we are ours. Nothing controversial, I guess.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66502	Thank you, colleague Radeta. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. ) Now the word has been given by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66503	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if you allow Parliament to exist. People are born equal, they have basic human rights, right to life, right to freedom, right to security. The right to equality is very strange. Here, we MPs are not equal, for days, months, I can write to the European Parliament, I can boycott the National Assembly with several arguments, there can't be a few Rules of Procedures, there can't be one for my colleagues, the other for me, the third for others, but about that by that. As far as pensioners are concerned, all people have the right to a fair job, decent profit, accessible education, accessible health care, the right to school, the right to be treated, but also the right to a dignified age, but all people. Here in the main story was about those who were insured. Most of all, those rights were advocated by some whose retirement time was in bonbons, and I welcome it when someone changed their attitude, and every morning they organized recreation for pensioners, running for milk, running for oil, running for sugar, running for cigarettes, and pensioners were the most common labor force in the family that was waiting for and the zebra, acid and in the sun were, in those unfortunate times, the zebras in front of the supermarkets where there was something, and most often these shops, the supermarkets were filled with empty shelves. In 2012, the pension fund was 500 billion, of which 500 billion, 273 billion were from the budget, donations from the budget. So less than half of it was collected in the PIO Fund, thanks to privatisation, grabbing, relaxing 400,000 workers, deprivement of salaries, deprivement of employees who had lost their jobs, who were wandering in suburban areas, empty pockets and empty stomachs. As a result, there was little money in the PIO Fund and the state paid the rest out of the budget, including loans. Now I'm asking you -- if all people are equal, the Citizens' Protector should say, how then a peasant with 80 years old who didn't have a pension, who sat on an old machine, a tractor, so you don't know if the older tractor or a farmer is sitting on a gas station and through excises, taxes and contributions to 20 thousand dinars of fuel, of which three thousand dinars go for retirement, how he's equal, when he doesn't have the right to retire, but through the budget, I've described through the purchase of diesel, seeds, fertilizers, etc. through excises, taxes and contributions, participates in the payment and grant of those who have the right and who are from the fund, as much as they have received pensions, plus these 273? He didn't get anything, and apparently I proved he'd paid. Not all citizens, not even old equal, unfortunately, and still not all of them have the right to a dignified age. If I say that rare farmers, who are receiving a farm pension, have that pension at 11,500 dinars, and now they're back on the tractor, and they're still participating in a pension grant, with them still having some pension. But I'm asking you what justice is when that pension is less than social aid, which is 12,000 dinars? What is the motive of a farmer, with less land to wait at 65 years for pension rights, when he can do it in his 50s, by selling those 2, 3 acres of land and being a social case? He'd rather exercise his right to social aid than to retire. I also know that the debts of PIO farmers, due to the laws passed by those unfortunates, who boycott the National Assembly, are also enormous because they couldn't be paid because they passed the law by which they were all housed, on the agricultural family land, unless they were employed to be bonds of PIO insurance. This raised debts and interest rates of 160 billion, plus hundreds of billions for health care funds. That's what they've been charged for, a debt of 260 billion, over two billion euros, and they're now hostage to it, they can't make a real pension anymore, they can't pay that kind of debt. If they pay him, it means nothing, because for the current year, he has to settle again, etc. This should put pressure on the public to put pressure on the authorities, to resolve the situation, and that all old people have the right to a dignified age, not just some. If it wasn't for stealing pensions, the donation was, I said, 500 and a billion, Mr. Arsic knows better than I do. Next year, the pension fund, both this year and next year, is 600 and something billion. How did someone who provided for pensioners, first of all through work, through the development of the processing industry, ensure that they were made in the PIO Fund, that there was more money and that the pension fund was paid up of 600 and something billion? So 500 and something, 600 and something. How come it wasn't the thieves who paid only 500 billion in the PIO Fund, paid out of there, out of the Fund, out of the budget, how they weren't thieves? Fired 400,000 people, destroyed industry and so on, and thieves raised those who raised industry and pension funds to 600 and some billion more from over 100 billion? Evidence of increased employment is the next fact - that now pensions in 2020, dotted with 157 billion less, but they are 100 billion more, which means that the industry has worked, that we have hired a large number of people in the real sector, while reducing the number of public sector employees. It's the success of this government. The public defender has the right and the obligation to make sure that all pensioners have the right to receive adequate grants, not to make the difference from city to city, that someone in town gives free tickets, that in another city they do not have, that they are equal. If additional funding is made, do not fund only in Belgrade, or in Novi Sad, or in India, let those rights have in all small municipalities and let some rights be given to those who have the least pensions. P By increasing pensions, we will get an increasing difference between those who have 100,000 pensions and those who have 11,000. More and more small agricultural holdings will be deprived of land to get their hands on, before they get their hands on pensions, social aid, not to wait 65 years for pensions of 11,500 dinars, rather than selling these few acres of land, suspending production, leaving the land, giving it to the state or not knowing who, in order to get to, say, 50 and some year of social aid that will receive more than 12,000 dinars, and having various other benefits that farmers do not have. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, all men are equal. I guess I'm the same, huh? All people have the right to be informed. It is my party The People's Peasant Party small. Yesterday, I had an attack from Djorge Vukadinovic, who said I acted badly. He didn't exactly say I made it up, but the connotation could have concluded that. I claimed he was on the national minority list. I said he was on a list of national minorities' weeds. That list is called none of the answers offered. The elections were held on 6 May 2012. The candidate under regular number 2 was Djordje Vukadinovic. Our citizens have the right to know everything. The first was Nikola Tulimirovic, the second Djordje Vukadinovic, which means false Vlah. Citizens have the right, the Vlachs of national minorities, to be equal and not to be entered into by Serbs as false Vlas, to take away their political rights belonging to the true Vlasima and to the right of national minorities. That's what I was talking about yesterday. He said the worst thing about me, and I offered to resign if this wasn't true, but if it's true that what he did at least apologized. He didn't do it. I further claimed that on his Twitter warrant on the claim of that Nog, Djog, or as it is called, the MPs, that we should be hanged on the terraces, he replied – on the terraces the occupier hung the patriots, so that was out of the question. So we should be hanged somewhere else. People's MPs and politicians also have the right to live, and Djordje Vukadinovic has the right to both Nogo and Djogo and Boskic. They all have the right to live. I don't want to go into their right, but what are civil defenders doing about the rights to life, freedom and the right to security? Those who belong to the ruling parties, I support the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and there is no porter in it, what are they doing about it? Like, a rape threat, what was the reaction? The threat of hanging, I don't remember the reaction. Maybe I'm wrong. The threat of shooting, the threat of being chased down the streets, the threat of being listed, the threat of being beaten to pieces, the threat of being cut apart, the threat of being released by Sava and Danube, the idea of Mile Budaka. I ask the Guardian of Citizens in what way and how many times has he called about these threats? Do we have the right to security in this House? Do we have the right to our flag? Do we have the right to our sanctity? Do we have the right not to be insulted at gay parades by wearing pictures of church dignitaries and saying – you will be mine and so on, wearing the icons of the Mother in gay colors? Do we believers have the right to believe? Did the Civilian Protector answer against this Nedim Sejdinovic? That's his name. Did he answer and say, "No, you have no right to congratulate the Orthodox believers of the great duck, instead of the Great Friday, and to show the yellow duck, to show it?" I don't remember the Guardian condemning it. That ex was a politician, this one wasn't, and I say hello, but it has to be a little bit sharper. It must be for those phenomena that offend the citizens and make them unequal to react. Not to forget, I told Djordjet Vukadinovic that he had won millions during Boris Tadic's games of chance, that he had not bought the tickets, but that he had won the money. Here's the contract. He received 2,400,000 for his alleged public opinion survey, but in advance he received two million to question public opinion – are you satisfied with your life? Look out, Serbia's lottery pays research to Djordjet Vukadinovic, which reads: are you satisfied with your life? So he doesn't buy luckys, but he gets $2,400,000. I don't know how much those who buy tickets get? I also claimed he'd been to RTS four times and I hadn't been once. He confirmed it yesterday. I also claimed he kicked me out of a show, but I thought he threw me out... Both he and Chanak, but he confirmed it was him himself. He didn't want to participate in the RTS show, in "The Questionnaire", if I'm participating. Is it forbidden to tell the truth? Will you stand in my protection? Everything I've ever said in the congregation, I've been doing with evidence. That's why, I don't know, I'm rude, I'm uncultured, and I've always been telling the truth. Is the truth in this country forbidden? Did Djordje Vukadinović want to ban the truth yesterday, and I brought all this out, with the fact that I didn't have this paperwork at the time. He's not here today. He won't apologize. He didn't want to apologize for the gallows. He didn't want to apologize here for the front page of the NIN, which we here the night before NIN came out, all in turn condemned, except for him and Chevarlic. He didn't want to convict a sniper in front of the President of the Republic. He wouldn't at least fence himself gently. No, he wouldn't. Do you wish death to someone is the human right of one who desires it? It's possible. Now let me ask you about Judge Majic. You protect the citizens. I think you should protect both the victims and the dead. In Gjilan, 80 Serbs were killed, Gjilan Group, 250 tortured, two protected witnesses, women who were raped and one Albanian who participated in torture witnessed it. They testified in court and 11 Albanian terrorists received 116 years in prison in the first verdict. Judge Majic returned it to the re-determination in an appeal ruling. The court again, based on evidence of protected witnesses and material evidence, sentenced the Gjilan Group to 116 years in prison. In a second-degree decision, the Court of Appeals, on the second occasion, freed 11 Albanian terrorists who killed 80 people of non-Albanian nationality, most Serbs and tortured 250. Do you know what method? The method of taking the soul lightly. Whether those injured who survived and those dead have the right to protect the citizens – well, there were serious human rights violations here, here Judge Majic missed the opportunity to punish the crime, to protect the victims, so before the Supreme Court found that the verdict was illegal, to the harm of the victims, and to the benefit of the accused. It could not be tried again because when the protection of legality is passed, the trial is repeated only if the defendants are damaged, but if the state is damaged, then nothing. It's well played, probably on American occasions. Furthermore, do they have the right not to have minors, but to have children of 13 years of age, not to be promised and not to live with paedophiles? The same judge, and I don't know if the Citizens' Protector called, Majic ruled and released the pedophile and said, since the pedophile was a Roma nationality, and probably a girl, to release him because he didn't know it was forbidden. Wait, so anyone who commits a crime can say – I didn't know it was forbidden and to appeal to Judge Majic's verdict? According to the case-law, Mr Martinovic, anyone can be called and said – that, the case law, the verdict of Majic is an example that paedophiles do not have to be punished unless they knew it. Did the citizens' protectors react to that? Of course not. And these are questions that are very sensitive and that's what we should be dealing with. People can't be equal to us just when they're arranged and after they die, because unfortunately, not only in this country, people become equal again after birth only when they die. They're equal, they're dead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66504	The word is Grodan Banac, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go. All right, but we have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and my colleague, Banac, has the advantage. [[Miss Radeta: I answered the line.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66505	Article 106. I just wanted to point out, first of all, that this party really cares about pensioners and that we and some amendments here have asked that they be adopted, which are not adopted, but we expect that in terms of the possibilities of the state, we will be able to do so, first of all, there is a harmonisation of pensions. Not to mention the bonds that the Holy Scriptures are right, that's what a colleague and all the lawyers who have experience in life know. We have proposed countless times and with the Prime Minister, here while they were present, I have asked that our President Milan Krkobibic, asked for all relevant factors, including the Citizens' Protector. So all representatives of the parties, the parliamentary ones, all to attend, to make their proposals. How to help pensioners who finally receive right and on time, which is very important, whether or not she's a church girl, but she's on time? Please, all pensioners, whether or not they're damaged, have made 32% to 35% of the contributions. So pensions have to be coordinated, you can't measure someone who retired 15 years ago who left today. We asked and we proposed it to the amendments. We sincerely hope that there will be opportunities, there are possibilities that indeed pensioners who are not the social population, they are the economic population, they built this country, they built and today they have, indeed as patriots refer to this country. They settle their obligations no matter what their pension is, whether one is a pensioner, two, three, where there's not so much. This population really needs help. It is very important that this pension comes in time, now it is necessary to find out really all possible opportunities, as many countries as it can, to help pensioners, not to help them in terms of giving, pensioners have earned their pensions and the day-to-day they earn their share. So I just want to ask that we stick to the agenda, as in Article 106. I pray best, Mr. Chairman, that we talk about what's on the agenda. About pensioners, we will plead further and legally seek to regulate their right and their status. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66506	Thank you, Mrs. Banac. Do you want the National Assembly to declare itself in the day of voting on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Grown Bank: No. No, no, no, Thank you. The word is "Verica Radet," right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66507	Thank you. Strange winds blow before these upcoming elections. Some give up the protection of the interests of pensioners, some deny the protection of the interest of farmers. We have very interesting discussions, not just days, otherwise these days. Something that got me so worried, I'd like to hear if in all of Serbia it's such a condition that farmers give up their land to become social cases. I don't know if that's what it is, Mr. Miletic, is it the state of the most beautiful municipality in Serbia or in general? We'd just like to hear that part. There's something we can't understand. Why can the representatives of the government in no way forgive Aleksandra Vukic for the best part of his political past, when he was the youngest minister in the best government of the Republic of Serbia? Why do they keep passing it on to him? Why is it not good for them now that this government, at the time, was making up for the pensions' pensions? A little while later, someone finds himself, whether he's a representative of the government, whether he's a representative of the ruling majority in the Assembly, a constant remark. Guys, that's the best part of Alexander Vukic's political career. He was the youngest information minister in the patriotic, most patriotic government of the Republic of Serbia. Don't keep passing it on to him, it's not nice.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66508	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66509	Article 103, paragraphs 7 and 8. First of all, I didn't give up the rights of a farmer. On the contrary, I was saying that the current situation where it is better to be a social case than a peasant is unsustainable to me, and I was pushing for them to get greater rights, to regulate their debts to the PIOs that were created because an unreasonable law had been passed that all the locals at that time had to, who were not employed, to be secured by the PIO, and that these agricultural holdings simply couldn't endure. Secondly, I explained how they pour diesel into old machines subsidize the rights of those who have pensions, even peasants who don't have any pensions. I was talking about them being in an neglected position and that the Citizens' Protector should press the authorities to ensure that age rights are provided to all old people, including farmers. As far as these other things are concerned, nor did I say it was good or bad, I only said that sometimes pensions were paid in bonuses, but that it was a difficult time, and I said it was, whether it was like that to Mr. Martinovic, as Peter Handke's difficult times best described, Mr. Krlić knows it, if he is allowed to answer the word at all and if he is allowed to do so. So, here, I mentioned it, it has the right to breach the Rules of Procedure. So these were very difficult times and that's how it is, and no one thought to say then -- you know, pensioners were stolen, etc. I also said the 2012 pension fund was 500 billion, and now it's over 600 billion. How are the thieves who found 500 billion, and now the total pension fund is divided into 600 billion, how are they thieves? They have not yet provided the processing industry, employed people and pensions are earned from production, paid to a greater extent than it was in 2012. That's what I was talking about, and I'm not asking you to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66510	Thank you. The right to replica has Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66511	Mr. Chairman, I mean, colleague Verica, and colleague Marian from my MP club mentioned a lot of things that I talked about earlier. Otherwise, as for this municipality where I come from, the most beautiful municipalities in Serbia, Srljig, located next to the most beautiful city in Serbia, that is Nis, there is a very difficult situation. Many of our agricultural producers use small agricultural pensions. On the other hand, about what Mr. Risticevic was saying, that's what the face of the situation is. Some agricultural producer with 50 acres of land, 60, 70 acres, does not have the right to use tomorrow's social aid, to use certain things used by people living in the city, who have 50 acres of plaque, who have a villa, and the applicants receive funds and use social aid I mean, that way... [[Marian Risticevic: How did you give a replica to the breach of the Rules of Procedure?]]
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66512	Excuse me, colleague Miletic. Mr. Risticevic, don't throw it at me, please. (Marian Risticevic: No, I want to throw.) How did you give the line to the Rules of Procedure? Don't throw it away, I'll have to apply the Rules of Procedure. Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66513	Thank you. Once again, the distinguished colleague Verica mentioned me and my municipality, that is, the municipality from which I come, because it is one of the most underdeveloped municipalities in Serbia, because it is a municipality that has the largest number of old people, because in the municipality it is a great need to provide more funding from the state to provide the municipality with greater opportunities. This thing said by Mr. and my colleague Risticevic, the problem of our people, the agricultural producers who have a country of 50, 60, 70 acres, they have no right to social assistance. They can't use social aid tomorrow as people in the city who have a salary of 50 acres, have a villa, and they use welfare. Because of that, I'm sure that our agricultural producers, these are the real hosts, they won't give up even their country's pedals to use help tomorrow, although they need more help than some people who live in the city, who have all those benefits of the city, that they have water, sewage, that they have school, kindergarten, that they have a shopping store, an infirmary and everything else. Dear colleague Vjerica, I think it is necessary for greater support to be provided to such municipalities, undeveloped, in order to provide greater support to our agricultural producers both in villages and in larger municipalities in the same way, but you need more to be.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66514	Thank you, fellow Miletic. Mirko Krlic also called. Based on what, colleague Krlic? Here you go. [[Mirko Krlić: I am mentioned, replica.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66515	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is a good opportunity, and I am grateful for being mentioned and for having the opportunity to say something about the greatest literary figure of today, about perhaps the greatest artist, who breathes air together with us, about Peter Handke, who won the Nobel Prize as the greatest award ever earned, and then these days suffers from certain centres of power, from certain centres of quasi cultural elite, the most severe attacks, but not on his own, because they did not even read the work, but because he dared to side with the Serbian people and Serbia at all. Peter Handke was not attacked, Serbia was attacked, Serbs were attacked. So I would ask all the MPs to take advantage of the opportunity in today's discussion, at least in one sentence, as representatives of the people, as the largest representative body, to say their position, to express their position on the great Peter Handke. Peter Handke will outlive all of us, and he and his work, but if we shut up today, maybe when we're ready for conscience that we didn't participate in the defense of the great Peter Handke, as in France today the conscience of those who didn't participate in the defense of Emil Zola, when he defended the rights of Dreyfuss to justice and truth. Justice is at stake, the truth is at stake, Serbia is at risk. All honor and every gift before the great Handek, and it is our responsibility to participate in his defense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66516	Thank you, Mr. Krlic. The word is "Verica Radet." Here you are, colleague Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66517	Okay, we've cleared up what wasn't in that first part of the debate clearly, when it comes to farmers and agricultural pensioners. I think Mr Miletic explained part of what we of the SRS have been saying for a long time. It's really inadmissible now that we're out of all pensioners to single out agricultural pensioners and it's inadmissible, no matter what happens in some meantime, that a peasant goes on retirement, of course, at 65 years of life and when it's made, as the people say, and what does he do with a pension of several thousand dinars? The other day he told me in a village, in Hrtkovci specifically, the pensioner's wife said, 4,000 dinars are receiving a pension, because I guess 6,000 are taking it because she didn't pay those contributions, because it was once a commitment, etc. We started here, Natasa Jovanovic, our colleague, has been asking the finance minister for months to solve this problem and even has a promise, Mr. Miletic, from Mr. Maloko that this problem will be resolved, that indeed part of the contributions that the state may forgive, that this will happen. It's not gonna work, that's how he explained it, but one part will. And we're really expecting it now and it's the end of the calendar year, to solve this problem, because it's really amazing that people of peasants who are 65, 70 years old can live off a pension of several thousand dinars. You know, the wrong attitude is to say that peasants have something to eat. They have something to eat, but the peasants, except they produce for food, have to pay for both electricity and heating and water and drugs and rice and oil and a lot of things they don't produce. It's not just what they produce enough for their lives. Indeed, and about the farmer of the sea, fellow Miletic, you are right, the state has much more to take care of.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66518	Thank you. Milletic has a right to replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66519	Thank you. I really think what I'm saying, and that's also the theme of today's session, the particular choice of Deputy Simeon. It's very important what we're saying right now, and it's very important that a colleague of Verica Radeta says that because the problems that our agricultural producers have, people who live in undeveloped areas with difficult living conditions, such as the municipality of Svrljig, Bela Palanka, Gajin Han, Merošin, Babushnica and a large number of such municipalities in southeastern Serbia. We need to find these people ways, for those people who started paying agricultural pensions, for agricultural insurance. What happened was that, when they had previously introduced certain laws by 2012, some of the laws had been changed, from one taxpayer who paid the agricultural pension to all of them. Since 1 January 2009, all those taxes, which were held by that agricultural insurance company, have had an obligation and have begun to be owed by the tax administration, so now they are disastrous debts. That man now, a farmer, has no right to subsidies from the state. What if they come tomorrow, God forbid, someone else who tomorrow will come to those people with these perpetrators and take their houses and property, and all because of the fact that by 2012, some government has done something inappropriate, passed a law that obliges all members of the land to pay for agricultural pensions and agricultural insurance, health insurance, social security through agriculture, and on the other hand, that no one has told them? It's a catastrophic situation now. I expect our minister in charge to find an opportunity, along with the government, to solve this problem for the benefit of all people, to make those interests, to write off these debts and to start from the new year with regular payments and that these people can live normally. Otherwise, once again, the big problem is for our farmers and people living in the country, that with their 60, 70 acres of land, which he would never give up for the benefit of the state in order to use social aid tomorrow, we need to find ways for these people, since pensions are small, through certain benefits, which the Ministry of Agriculture needs, the Ministry of Labour to provide in such areas, with greater influence, and local self-government, that local self-government can provide both an ambulance and a doctor and a veterinary service and all that is needed for the village.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66520	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Sandra Christmas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66521	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected representatives of the citizens' institution, respected citizens of Serbia, today we have had a very core and content debate, which is only in support of the fact that the institution of the Protector of Citizens has a wide range of competences and that there is much to do with the work of the Citizens' Protectors, but I would certainly like to make today's subject, and that this is a choice for the Deputy Protector of Citizens, back to the agenda, and that what we are talking about today is certainly the subject of this discussion, and certainly not ignoring the fact that all of this in previous discussions and discussion is mentioned, far from it being important and not important. We always have to and have an obligation to discuss the situation of pensioners and to always consider what opportunities they are and how and in what way we can improve their position, but also to be aware that there are other categories of people who deserve our attention and deserve to discuss it today, among other things, that belongs to the jurisdiction of the Protector of Citizens, and how much, I hope, very soon, and in the jurisdiction of the Deputy Protector of Citizens. Therefore, MPs are presented with the biographies of candidates for Deputy Protectors on the proposal of the Protector himself, where you can see that these are persons who are more than competent and relevant for the exercise of the functions of Deputy Protectors. Each of them has individual qualifications necessary for the rope to be dealt with by the Protector, within his jurisdiction, to be transferred to his deputies. Before I explain my discussion, as an authorised representative of the SNS, allow me to point out for the public what are the responsibilities of the Citizens' Protector and his part-time work which is certainly defined by law. The protection of citizens is an independent body that protects the rights of citizens, controls the work of the state administration body, the body responsible for the legal protection of the property rights of the Republic of Serbia, as well as other bodies and organisations, businesses and institutions entrusted with public authority. The protection of citizens is independent in their work and independent and it is part of the work established by law. We have recently had the opportunity to consider and listen to the Report of the Citizens' Protector for 2018 and, after a long time, we have found that the Civil Protection Institution has regained its credibility, as well as that citizens' trust has returned to this institution, which, in my opinion, is far more important. Since the work of the Guardian of Citizens is quite visible and, indeed, we were able to assess that and in this previous debate, quite extensive because in addition to the regular methodology of work, we had the opportunity to hear and listen and also to see through the means of public information, the Protector of Citizens formed so-called. an open door that actually creates direct communication with citizens and with their problems. The office is located in Belgrade, and as far as other towns within Serbia are concerned, the days of Manchester are set for when citizens from the interior and in the same way, of course, refer to them as citizens living in the capital. In addition to the Emergency Interventions Department which you have formed and all other obligations which, quite logically, given the extent of your work, you also have the need to have deputies for better quality and faster answers to interested parties, and all of which, of course, in accordance with the law and the delegated powers of the Protectors to the Deputys. When transferring powers to deputies, we need to be clear, because the Protector must particularly take care of the fact that certain specialities are provided for performing the tasks of the Protector of the Citizens, especially from the jurisdiction to protect the rights of persons deprived of liberty, gender equality, child rights, the rights of members of national minorities and the rights of persons with disabilities. Given the rich experience from the close past when, not only the Protector of the Citizens was a political protagonist, but also his deputy and later acting as Protector of the Citizens of Milos Jankovic, it remains your obligation, as the Protector of the Citizens and his deputies, to have this as a reminder, one mistake from the past, and to carry out your duty in accordance with the law and the Constitution, which the National Assembly will have the opportunity to hear in your next reports that will be presented to him again in this House. In view of the sensitive groups whose rights are taken into account, and this is particularly true of children and their rights for which we are in the 2018 Report, but in the activities of the Civil Protection Officer himself in 2019, we have seen indeed that one serious attention is being paid and that indeed the institution of the Citizens' Protector is taking care of the preservation and improvement of the position of the child. We ask you, as someone who participates in the work of the Committee on the Rights of the Child, to continue with this practice, but I also personally believe that the Children's Heroes are something that we need and that should be considered in some future period, and we all know that one of those who was against voting in this home of the Child Protector's institution was just the former Protector of the Citizens Saša Jankovic, so I wonder, for what reason did this remain neglected at the time when the Protector of the Citizens function was performed by Sasa Jankovic and for what reason was the story devastated for him to even talk about whether or not the child's rights protecter was needed? And also, in this sensitive group that you take special care of, and I assume that part of your jurisdiction, the Citizens' Protector himself will pass on to his deputies, including persons with disabilities, and we've had the opportunity, on the 3rd of December of this year, so, a very short time ago, that at a gathering like this, when we were on the eve of the December 3rd marking, to make one reception for people with disabilities and different associations. We've had the opportunity to have the Guardian of Citizens here and to hear his report and how the Civil Protection Institution cares about the rights of persons with disabilities. Deputys and Protectors are also expected as socially responsible institutions that, through field work and in this way acquired practice and direct insight, some amendments to the laws and additions relating to the institution of the Protectors of Citizens are initiated, in order to adapt their competences to the part in which there is an estimate that certain complaints of citizens appear the most, and that is the role that is actually in symbiosis with the National Assembly and with us MPs. In this way we build a system according to the custom of citizens and their needs. So, I ask the Protector and the Deputys that the mistakes made by their predecessors do not make further and completely reject them as an example of bad practice, as an example of abuse of the position of the Protector of citizens, because the job of the Protector is not to create affairs and take away property of citizens, but to protect the interests of the same in accordance with the law, the Constitution and its powers. The role of the Protector is also to assess respect for the guaranteed rights of citizens and to point to their violation, not to turn into political order, and to support those who violate these freedoms with violent behaviour, misogenous statements, by insulting a journalist when their questions are not answered. For the above allegations, of course, there's no need to explain exactly who it's about. I suppose it is clear to everyone that it is Sergei Trifunovic, who is certainly the current president of the Free Citizens' Movement, and the road to what it is, is the former Citizens' Protector Sasa Jankovic, from the position of the Citizens' Protector. That's how he abused this institution. Also, I believe that it is the duty and obligations of both the Deputys and the Protectors to, when attacking the shameless and scandalous president of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic and the members of his family, and especially the children, when drawing targets on his body and pointing a sniper rifle at his chest, condemn such headlines, and individuals who are the subject of and a proposal for armed execution, such as the president was on the front pages of "Today" and of the NIN, consider that the President, above all, is a citizen, but also an institution with public authority and in accordance with his competences you react. We are witnessing that in the previous days, we are having unfeeling attacks on members of the Vukic family. First of all, I mean the brother of President Andrej Vukic who, of course, deserves protection as much from some false accusations and shameful attacks and the drawing of targets that we had in the previous period to see in certain media. Your work also applies to the work of the media and I am sure that in some future report we will have the opportunity, hopefully, to see what these are your opinions and what your opinions are about everything that's happened. We are also witnessing that you have not condemned, I think you had an obligation and all this that Mr. Marijan Risticevic spoke of before me, and these are misogenous attacks on the president of parliament, and then we have the threats of Prime Minister Ana Brnabic hanging, rape. I couldn't read anywhere that the Citizen's Protector protected this category, a sensitive category of population, which is, I say, on the subject of gender equality that we're extremely concerned about and women about. We've had opportunities also in the previous days, really a lot going on, to see also that the president's family is being attacked by some former regime that accuses her of some false affair, bringing forth a bunch of scandalous lies at the expense of the president and his family and his closest associates. We had the opportunity to see that they were looking for documents, attacking lies, attacking constructed affairs, acting and making sacrifices later on when they saw and realizing that lies would not go away, and when they actually realized that the only way, and we of the SNS think that one of the ways we can and we have to fight these affairs and served, I must say, I apologize for that, stupidity is the very institutions, and in this way we reacted to the fact that the mayor of Novi Sad, Milos Vukevic, had to file criminal charges against Alexander and Andrej Vukic to prove that all these allegations were opposition, in fact called on the prosecution and called on the authorities to investigate the whole so-called. an affair to ultimately prove that these are all factory lies. I hope that the epilogue of this situation in the coming period will have the opportunity to see, and we already see that individuals who have accused and constructed at different press conferences and used this House of the National Assembly as a stage, as if they were just the boards that life means to them, actually escaped and suddenly there is absolutely nothing important to them anymore, or whether there are certain documents. They simply seemed to be afraid of what would eventually come out, which is the truth and only the truth, and that's what we stand for. I also think the Citizen's Guardian had a chance to react to what happened last week. We had the opportunity to have one of those who mostly needed to make some performances in front of our home last week, to see how shamelessly he attempted a violent incursion in the Serbian Parliament, using and demeaning it during the markings of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, we're talking about another poorly designed performance by Bosko Obradovic. So, from all of this I have outlined the task of the institution of the Protector of Citizens and Deputy Protectors, it is to protect the rights of all citizens absolutely, even if they were politicians, even if it was the President of the State, and in this regard, I hope that at least part of what I have put forward today as a recommendation in the future work of the Protector and his deputies will consider it in good faith, and the SNS Group MP will support all proposals for Deputy Citizens' Protectors in the day of voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66522	Thank you, colleague Christmas. Are any of the other presidents or authorized presidents answering for a word? The word is Gjorge Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66523	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I apologize for this insolence, but I wanted to say a few words about these proposals, a few principled things and say something about a renegade attack, or a step forward whose victim I was a little bit, but it is no exception but a rule when it comes to Mr. Marijan Rističević's actions. As far as the proposal is concerned, I think it is necessary to support the Citizens' Protector's proposals, because it is important to allow him to form his team. Mr. Pasalic had my conditional support and when it was debated, I said he was capable, that he was a good candidate, a question now for what and whether it was exactly that basic act of his, but generally he was a good lawyer and could be here, as I would say, if he prevented political influences, that it was an institution that could continue some good practice of predecessors, eventually remove some weaknesses that had been. He didn't stand out too much, or that institution didn't stand out too much so far, but he didn't make any big fouls either, so I think that some conditional transitional assessment for the Citizens' Protector team stands up, and in that sense it's logical that he rounds up his team. What my principled objection to this list, not to these candidates, but to the biography, at the very beginning I spoke once and liked it, or at least not to be opposed by some other MPs from neither the opposition nor the opposition, should not, after all, bother you because your party president often likes to boast about his average in studies, why candidates as a commitment, and not as a college thing, when we get the biography we also see the average score on basic studies. So it's a very important thing, principled, principled. We have three candidates here. Two listed their average study score, and one was not mentioned. These grades for these two candidates are decent, solid, and for the third, we can assume. To be clear, it is not an automatic guarantee of expertise, especially in some years when some other things happen in biography and careers. So away from it being something that immediately disqualified or qualified you for some function, but that should be the standard. It's just supposed to be standard. I don't see why it's not asked of all the candidates, and if they're asked to, then why not put it in the biography proposal? I stress here, for candidates Jelena Stojanovic and Natasa Tanjavić, there is this information about the middle score, as I said, it is decent, and for the third candidate Slobodan Tomic there is no such information, at least in what was delivered here. It's one thing that seems technical, but I think it's good and important for the general establishment of standards that are then going on, and then we look further at what the candidate's references are. As for what he reacted to, which was not responded by the Citizens' Protector, we all have different criteria and feelings. Can't, of course, protect the citizens to satisfy all our wishes or judgments. It doesn't always mean that he's right and doesn't mean that we're always right, but let's just say that I think that the Citizens' Protector should have announced about the campaign of homeless and multi-monthly, almost multi-annually, which puts individuals under the control of the media not only out of the opposition, not just the leaders of the opposition, but everyone who speaks critically or dares to say something critical towards, or against, the ruling party, and especially the head of the ruling party. Not entering political arbitration, there are some standards where some controversy and criticism goes into the lynch, when it goes into persecution, and then it has to react no matter who it is. It's my opinion and the Guardian has a duty, not just a right to react. Of course you're so-called. public figures, especially politicians, that for them the threshold is a little higher and they need to suffer more, but I don't think they should be heads of state, or the heads of parties, or the authorities, or the opposition, or the MPs at the end of the bag of hitting a bill that can be said anything, anything that comes to mind and campaigns for months. So political campaign yes, criticism yes, but not persecution and lynch. I think that there is a basis for some kind of intervention, I'm not now talking about individual situations and this Protector institution with a desire to keep it working and functioning relatively well or at least satisfying my sense of subjective, not saying that I've gone into details, that, in relation to some other institution, the Civil Protection Institution is still working or at least does not yet fall into order of an institution that can be greatly objected to. If they could do more, they could. There were probably mistakes in the work of the previous Protector, but that kind of double arches where everything was being used by the previous Protector of the Citizens and he only demonized because he entered at one point, but after many years of performing his function, in a political arena and then suddenly he became both a murderer and a thief, as it is, and it was also inappropriate and it caused damage not only to that man's personality but, I would say, to the institution itself. As for what some respected colleagues are in the context of this debate, again inappropriately and the chairman probably should have intervened, but he says that he has broad practice and allows dialogue, although it is no dialogue but to discuss everything and everything, what fellows from the ruling coalition are then masseously practicing to speak within any point of the agenda about anything, and first of all to criticise it, and not to criticise it, but to spit on political opponents, which is present, which is not present here. In that sense, we had a demonstration of it today. So, I am the last one to deny or deny the right of any MP to pursue different topics and, of course, to speak an pasture, but when it systematically abuses the agenda points to speak and respond, which to the present, which to the absent or fellow or political figures, is actually manipulation and abuse. I thought I wouldn't have to go back to this case and this controversy yesterday that I had with my colleagues from SNS and Mr Risticevic, I thought that some kind of warning or distraction, that would be enough to warn them to stop that practice that might seem to bring some points, maybe to someone at first ball and first listening sounds like good, but I told them it was, but I told them, but I don't know what it is, but it certainly ruins the dignity of this parliament, certainly destroys the seriousness of the debate here. I must admit that, perhaps I was wrong, perhaps I was wrong, and now, very often, for a long time, I have ignored Mr. Risticevic's calling. Even the superficial viewer of these sessions knows that his job, his task, whether he got it, I believe he got it, or forced it himself, but I'm pretty sure he got it, that after every step or every more serious step, every single serious or more critical MP from the opposition, gets up and independent of the agenda, regardless of the subject, starts talking all sorts of nonsense or, he would say, facts about him. Mr. Martinovic, Mr. Martinovic, don't be so sensitive. What we just heard today, Mr. Martinovic, let alone yesterday... (President: Col. Vukadinović, not directly, you are free to menu, so Martinovic will... ) Mr. Chairman, you should have warned Mr. Martinovic after he threw it to me. So, I apologize for addressing him directly, but he talks to me and throws it away. So there's something a little vultureic about when everyone jumps on one and it happens systematically and when these things are covered up by the story of being facts. I suffered because I thought, well, it could be worse. We are witnessing the passing of the distinguished Professor Shevarlic. So, it's a person, it's an individual, it's a persona, I'm talking not about Mr. Ševarlic, but about Mr. Rističević, who's been in charge of every statement by Professor Ševarlic coming out here for years with some stories, slanders, insinuations, with some called papers that prove nothing, except that the man, Professor Ševarlic, was doing some projects in his long career, got some money, not himself, for his own pocket, but to do some work, which as a respected expert, the professor, certainly has the right, and the obligation. This was done to Professor Ševarlic, not to mention some other opposition colleagues, who are now absent here so I don't mention them, but who had a direct patch in character and work by Marijan Risticevic. I was thinking, well, when Professor Chevarlic takes it, come on, like, I'll put up with it and ignore it. That, however, is not a good practice. But I also understand those who stay away from it and avoid it. Because if you enter the controversy and debate with Mr. Marijan Risticevic, you have lost immediately. Not because of the facts, its strengths and its arguments, but because you are discussing with Marijan Risticevic. On the other hand, if you let go, if you keep your mouth shut, then it's okay and they're laying these things down and then they become something people think is true. In that sense, I think it is the chair's duty that somewhere, taking care of and allowing debate, but not to allow chican, it doesn't matter whether a few or many opposition MPs here. For three years, more than three years, almost four, three and a half years, opposition MPs have suffered a chican here. The perjanica of that chicane was Marijan Rističević. Now, he's going to say, as he said this morning, I've been to the doctor, by the way, be told, and now that I'm sick while I'm saying this, I hope not by the content, but by the way and the voice I'm talking to, so he's going to say -- well, these are the facts, the people have the right to know, the citizens have the right to know. Of course, citizens have the right to know, but it's very relatively, because there will be no contribution to democracy or the public, if I, for example, each of my exhibitions here and, let's say, 20 MPs of the opposition who could or should have been here, started with a story, a statement by Alexander Vukic about, say, a table for one, that if you kill one Serb, we will kill a hundred Muslims and that regardless of any point of the agenda, regardless of any topic, each of the opposition MPs will rise up and start with that. Or with some other famous statements, like that speech in Kline, etc. Or, to start with the biography and the details of the biography that are publicly available, they're not any military secret, various colleagues across the street, about their school supplies, about their businesses, about companies that they have about all kinds of other things. It can be interesting, it can be useful, but under certain conditions, under certain circumstances. So, here's the story of how the public should know, you know, I could take photos and large photographs and Mr. Rističević from "Farma", his tour of "Farma", as he scratches on private parts and say -- the public has the right to know and then wave here at a press conference with his pictures from reality shows... (President: Col. Vukadinovic, indeed, is not on the agenda of counterpart Risticevic. My colleague, I wasn't on the agenda either, so you've allowed that as part of the story of the Citizens' Protector... (President: Good, if anyone mentions you once or twice.) This is not the same thing, you're talking 15 minutes about Marijan Risticevic. No, I speak less than that. (Chairman: It doesn't make sense, you crucify a man here. I'm talking because, first of all, it's not hard for me to talk at all. (Chairman: Come on, please, get back to the topic.) Everything is fully allowed, but don't crucify. ) Mr. Chairman, I appreciate your efforts, but unfortunately, you were the chairman, I don't know, half an hour or 40 minutes ago, and you didn't once warn Mr. Risticevic, and I'm the subject of almost every exposure, except when there are other and more urgent things. And I haven't responded to that in three years. Secondly, I'm very serious, and I'd say justifiably I'm talking about these proposals that are part of the agenda. Not only Mr. Risticevic, and some of the other colleagues here talked about everything and everything they thought was important, and about the hacks, the callings and the lynchings, the leaders of their party and the heads of state, the members of his family and the like. So neither am I comfortable, nor am I able to physically burn this, but I can't, it's not convenient that it's right now and I'm in this state, but it's simply somewhere to be told because these accumulated stories are being created, they accumulate the effect. So, my right to support her or to be on any list. I didn't change the national definition. The documents I filed on that occasion include my citizenship. So I didn't change nationality, or citizenship, or change my name as some colleagues when they ran. As a representative of the Croatian minority or I do not know which nationality may be on the list of any party, so can vice versa. In any case, I didn't have any use for it, but I wanted to draw attention to it, and in some ways I succeeded, in the partial nature of the regime, to the project that was being prepared in 2012, which was this replacement of Kurta Murt, that at the time, the democratic set-up already spent, would not qualify differently, replace this new advanced position, in a similar way, in the wrong Euro-Atlantic settings. Anyway, so I didn't break the law, nor did I have any use for it. As for "Lutria", it is my job to investigate public opinion, such as the job of someone else to participate in reality programs or to plow, sowing and harvest, and I did it more or less well. If we can make a round table or a debate, but not now here, so I can say what was intent, among other things, on me and some other people and what was still, but it's gone too far now, to stop this crime or semi-legal crime under these bookies' company. That monster bookies, like when it comes to weapons, like when it comes to... (incomprehensible) arms and arms trafficking, so I advocate state ownership of this sector, I think that "Luthria" is something from which, if not to ban the privatisation, but at least to limit, by example, again, not to invent hot water, to some countries, even from an environment and a world where this betting has become a monster and where they have seriously intervened, in various countries, I say, both large and small and distant, but it is a serious topic. So, the topic was, the idea was to examine trust in the State lottery and see how people live, it's another cartoon, and see if it can be restored in any way, or maybe some legal, maybe, restrictions that would allow it, I'm not running away from that word -- a monopoly or at least a privileged position for a state-owned company. This state-owned company then control and put your boards of directors and supervisors on boards, it's completely irrelevant to me, as it is to the arms industry, and not to warn us, punish us for some murky business, perhaps real, perhaps even defeated, some private individuals we're just now discovering exist and who have worked with this and the previous authorities. So, what's the point? We must have the same arches. Half of the reasons why MPs, and I'm telling you openly from talking to them, opposition MPs aren't here, half of them were formal procedural nature, those amendments, those famous ones where you prescribe the entire amendment, so you put a stuck one at the end or some cartoon, and then they stand up, and then they're being discussed, and that's the time you use to attack the representatives of the opposition. It is some kind of shagging, it is some kind of abuse. So these formal things and the treatment of opposition MPs were part of the reason for the boycott, when we entered it early last year. But half or a third of the reasons were just the character and work of Mr. Marijan Risticevic. I personally think, but, of course, colleagues have to say, although they may not admit it to you so publicly, it's a sort of maneuver. Mr. Risticevic and some similar to him, but he is the champion, serving to devalue this parliament, to drive the opposition out of it, which eventually succeeded, with the help of course and some other things, to disgust, primarily the MPs, then the viewers, to watch the National Assembly. Because what's the point? You're a bit of a victim and a kamikaze, because we're actually collapsing ourselves, devalue the transmission, the seriousness of these discussions, and then people aren't looking, and then somebody's going to say, well, no one's watching, let's shut down those transmissions. Thus, the ruling majority has consciously become the hostage of the need to demonize, end, and partly defile the Parliament and drive the MPs out of the opposition. It succeeded, unfortunately, but from that, the National Assembly and the citizens of Serbia only have damage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66524	Thank you, colleague Vukadinovic. Right on the line, Marijan Risticevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66525	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if I were entitled to one replica every time I was mentioned, I think I should have 100 replicas. Like this, I admit that I was, that was yesterday's indictment, until the death of Prime Minister Djindjic. That's what Mr. Arsic said yesterday. I admit I was a farm participant when I didn't have any function. For example, this is Canka and some of his work, Ivan Ivanovic, etc., irrelevant. Maybe I scratched myself there in some awkward place, so I admit it. It's my sins. The gentleman who spoke before me said in his own time that the problem of this assembly is that I need to plow, dig, so colleagues Orlic, Martinovic, Atlagic, that I need to plow, dig, sit in front of the store and drink beer, gentlemen of the protectors, and here he says, instead I am in the Assembly and that's the problem of this country. It's segregation. It's a violation of equality. Everyone has the right to choose and be chosen. That's when he didn't get the warning. It's a serious violation of human rights and equality. I listed some facts yesterday. There was no spit, the truth is true. So, I was in DOS, on Farm, I probably got a bad scratch, the camera took a shot. Well, I admit it. But the lists of national minorities serve to protect the national minority. Do we agree on that? This natural threshold has been invented, for national minorities adopted, not only invented, for national minorities to be represented in parliament. So it's realistic to say that there are national minorities on the list of national minorities. Here are the lists, the Vlachs of the national minority, none of the answers offered, number 2 – Djordje Vukadinović, political analyst, media owner, public opinion investigator, journalist, etc., multiple personality. I said he got millions during Boris Tadic's games of chance, and he didn't buy a ticket. Here, two million and four hundred thousand, here's the deal. I said, is that spit? That's true. It's the right of citizens to know that someone can win games of chance without buying a ticket. Next, I said he wrote on Twitter to Srdjan Nog's comment that we should be hanged, that we should not hang on the terraces, because the occupier hanged there patriots, that that's out of the question. Here's his tweet. So, what did I make up here? I said it's been three, four times live on RTS shows in the last two years. He confessed yesterday. I said they kicked me out of one show so he could participate. He said yesterday, you all heard, Mr. Martinovic, Orlic, said he didn't want to participate if I participated. And not only in RTS, and in television "First", but they were correct there, so they kicked me and him out. That's what I said and it's not spit, it's true, and that's why I ask – by or by? Is this true or isn't it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66526	Thank you. The right to replica has Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic, then Djordje Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66527	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have already said on several occasions that Djordje Vukadinovic is a municipal child in a political sense. He's nobody's. When you ask him, are you Gilasov? I didn't. Are you from Vuk Jeremic? I didn't. Are you from Bosko Obradovic? I didn't. Whose are you, Mr. Vukadinovic? Who do you belong to? Now you're saying you're not Vlah either, but you're a Serb, and then you say, "But I didn't change citizenship." I guess you're so written that you know that citizenship isn't the same thing as nationality. We didn't tell you that you became a citizen of another country, but that you changed your nationality, which you did. It is extremely hypocritical that someone who is allegedly a Serb, is running on the list of the Vlachs of the national minority, and you have only run for one reason, extremely luxuriant, to enter parliament, because you could not enter parliament in any other way, but on the list of some national minority, as Mr Risticevic said, because national minorities are not subject to legal censorship, but natural censorship. But under the circumstances, he managed to enter parliament in 2012 only Nikola Tulimirovic, but not you, although you were others on the list of national minorities. It's true that I read Alexander Vukic's grades and I can read them again. I read them because those of us who keep honoring how we have fake diplomas, fake Ph.D.s, how we ended up don't even know what colleges, can't show their diplomas. I now invite you, Mr. Vukadinović, you are a clever man, you are a prominent figure on the Serbian political scene, you are a prominent figure in Serbian, and for God's sakes and in the Vlach people, show your diploma, show your grades. Let Dragan Gilas do it, let Wolf Jeremic do it. The wolf, Jeremic, whose party you belong to and whose MP club you sit in, is a master of physics, and when journalists asked him what II Newton's law reads, the man had no idea. I'm asking you now, what kind of master of physics is that? Here you have spoken a series of lies about an MP named Marijan Risticevic. But it doesn't matter, like Vlah, you don't have to understand yourself in Serbian too much, but I see you understand money. Yeah, yeah, you know money. You received 2,400,000 dinars, without public procurement, it was run as a public procurement of small value. Yes, you, or your company. You mention, you say those SNS are dealing with some business, they have companies, well, you have a firm, you have created a company out of "New Serbian Political Minds", and on behalf of what you have a company called "New Serbian Political Thought" you have received from the Serbian State lottery 2,400,000 dinars to examine public opinion on how Serbian citizens live. Now I ask one question, in which country in the world, in which a civilised democratic state, Mr Vukadinovic, the Serbian State lottery is conducting a survey on whether the citizens of Serbia or the citizens of any other state are satisfied with their lives? What does that have to do with the state lottery? What does that have to do with gambling? There's absolutely nothing.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66528	Thank you, Dr. Martinovic. The right to replica has Djordje Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66529	Dear colleagues, as if they sense it, there are some kinds of people, animals who can feel the weakness of their opponent and then jump. Why didn't you give me this many replicas and call me all these months when I was sitting here in vain trying to get a word? My colleague Martinovic spoke straight for four minutes, I'm just distracting you, Mr. Chairman. So let's go from this last one. Of course, there are, and Mr. Martinovic knows this everywhere, but he is deliberately making a ignorance, of course, that serious companies are questioning public opinion, examining the market, of course, that the state of satisfaction and dissatisfaction with the standard of his citizens is important for planning campaigns, marketing companies like the national lottery. Of course it makes sense. Also, that story that one other speaker said, got, that's the story, it's like if someone who sells, say, a Mercedes broker or a car, so he says -- he got 15 or 20 or 25, I have no idea what the price of those luxury cars, 25 thousand or 50,000 euros, he got from Boris Tadic, or as he often told Marijan Risticevic about Prof. She's a seamstress. So no one got, second, no one got that "mercedes", there's one small percentage that's profit or profit. So it's manipulation of its kind. So is this story about Vlah. So, yes, there is a list of national minorities, but they can participate in it, as I say in the lists of these others can be attended by members of national minorities, so someone can participate in the list of national minorities. My goal was to demasque that substitution that turned out to be, that preparation of Kurta Murto's replacement, that is, the advanced set of this furniture that was supposed to replace this DOS, the democratic one, that went down. Not only did Mr Risticevic say here that he supported Zoran Djindjic or Vlad, he asked here to ban representatives of the opposition, or opposition parties so-called. Former regime. He was, as they are now, and I explained yesterday what and why he was serving, the fist of blow now and for dirty work and for the attacks of these against political opponents, which was also served by that DOS regime. That way, I say, there are witnesses here, and there is something in the media recorded, he was in the hands of Mr. Veselinov and Chanka, that poodle, I can't say, pitbul, because it would be a really inadequate comparison, to spit out the socialists at the time, the radicals, because of their views and their dark past and seek their ban, the ban on their parties. So, the biggest one was and it's always like that. Those who roll over are always the poorest, the greatest fighters because they have to prove themselves on these sides. It's not a problem that he scratched himself and scratched himself in reality, it's not a problem that he participated in at all, and it's not a problem, but it's just an illustration of his manner. (President: Thank you. I'm sorry, please. Finally, Mr. Martinovic asked me about the grades. Thank you for asking, Mr. Martinovic. So, I'm done with an average of 10.00. It's a shame to say, because it's even a little more average than your party chief. My middle grade was 10.00, Mr. Martinovic. I've never boasted about it, and now you've asked me.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66530	Thank you, Mr. Vukadinovic. The right to replica has Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66531	Ladies and gentlemen, you were supposed to react when he put people and animals in the same plane. You didn't react, and you should have. But here, I admitted that I was DOS, I haven't changed my mind at all. The prime minister died, I'm still on those ideas, I've changed the party, I've changed the coalition, I've changed the alliance, I've changed the alliance. He doesn't have a party. I haven't changed my nationality, he's changing it as needed. I'm a bit of a Serb, I'm a bit of a Vlach. To clarify that, it is the right of the Vlach to have a privileged position, the right of the Vlach, not the false Vlach, imagine when someone is willing to change the nation in one period just to reach parliament. I didn't do it. I'm not a moral misery. I didn't change my mind. Not only did I leave DOS, I left parliament. I had offers to be on the DS list back then, and I didn't want to. I went, built an industrial zone in India, the best industrial zone in India, brought the Fast factory, I'm not ashamed at all. Djindjic supported me. I built an industrial zone in India that is one of the best industrial zones now. He didn't build a house for a parrot. He comes in, conducts a public opinion survey, says - Vuk Jeremic has 30%, he wins 5%, six times missed a man, 600% misjudged a public opinion survey and he takes from the Serbia lottery 2,400,000 dinars to examine public opinion - are you satisfied with your life? The one who did it, and I showed him everything that he wrote on Twitter, he's going to say tomorrow he wasn't on the Dvora list, that Bosko Ljotić yellow, he's going to say it's not true. He will say he was not good with Kostunica, that he was silent when he was a martian pogrom, that he was silent when Montenegro left, that he was silent when independence was declared, because it paid him off, because Boris Tadic compensated for what Kostunica did not do. If I don't go as far as he's gone, I won't deal with it anymore, there's a saying, he says you're worth your opponent. And I don't want to be worth anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66532	Thank you, colleague Risticevic. The right to replica has Dr. Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66533	I thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Here, Mr Vukadinovic said he was doing an opinion survey for the needs of the Serbian State lottery and for the purpose of the election campaign. As far as I know, Serbia's state lottery is not participating in the election. Yeah, yeah, just show me I'm crazy, but here on paper I have an October 2009 contract you signed with the State lottery of Serbia, the director of the Serbian State lottery was Tijana Angelic. Was Tijana Angelic, Mr. Vukadinovic a DS cadre? Not to say she was capable of Boris Tadic himself. And what do you think now, that we are all little children here, so we don't know that DS and Boris Tadic funded you and your firm called the Research and Information Centre "New Serbian Political Thought" to conduct a public opinion survey, and imagine for whom, for the Serbian State lottery, with the question "Are you satisfied with life in Serbia"? What does this have to do with Serbia's state lottery's basic activity? What does the Serbian State lottery have to do with the question of how do Serbian citizens live? The state lottery, like any lottery, is involved in organising gambling and is absolutely not interested in how citizens of any country live, including the states of Serbia. This was a way to finance "New Serbian Political Thought" without Serbian citizens noticing it and how you can affirm DS and Boris Tadic's policy without Serbian citizens noticing it again. But here, you see, we were able to come up with this contract that shows that in 2009, on behalf of the alleged public opinion survey that you conducted for the purposes of the Serbian State lottery, and for the purpose of participation of the Serbian State lottery in the parliamentary elections, so you said briefly, you received 2,400,000 dinars, and these are facts. What you object to Marijana Rističević, I think it's extremely hypocritical. He said he was DOS, but you were in DOS, too, but you won't say that. You can tell me everything, but I wasn't at DOS. I fought DOS all the time in the SRS and I'm fighting today. But you've been chosen now in this conference, failed in 2012 as a member of the national minority's Vlach, it didn't work out for you, but in 2016 you were selected on the DSS list, to remind you of Mr Vukadinović. It's the same DSS that released Flyor Brovine, Albin Kurti. It is the same DSS that signed the Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the EU, and you say you are against the EU. It is the same DSS during whose mandate a number of robbery privatisations have been conducted in Serbia, and you say you are against it. It is the same DSS that has concluded with the NATO Pact a number of international agreements that NATO's pact, their staff, their soldiers and officers guarantee diplomatic status throughout the territory of the Republic of Serbia, not only in Kosovo and Metohija, and you are allegedly against the NATO Pact. It's the same DSS that kept quiet when it happened to the Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, and you're supposed to be a big advocate for the defence of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. It's the same DSS that kept quiet when the Cypriots in Kosovo and Metohija declared independence, so your financier Boris Tadic on February 17th 2008, because he was not allowed to face the citizens of Serbia who protested against it, invented an official trip to Romania, and Vojislav Kostunica, your political boss got into a mouse hole somewhere so no one could see him. So, you are not a member of DOS, so you should be exposed somewhere in the political museum and shown -- here, these are the people who led the country from 2000 to 2012 and therefore the citizens of Serbia, don't be surprised that our country was a wreck when you came down from power in 2012.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66534	Thank you, Dr. Martinovic. The right to replica has Nedjo Jovanovic. You mentioned the SPS in a negative context. That's what Mr. Jovanovic will now try to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66535	I thank the chairman. I don't want to explain and answer to Mr Vukadinovic because I don't see the need to answer him, but because of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and because of some fellow MPs present here, I have to say something, which is that the SPS have tried to write and delete, say it shouldn't exist, say it's a satanic party, say, I've said many, I haven't named anyone, say that the SPS shouldn't even exist. Together with us, the SRS, fortunately the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and our Socialists, the SPS has been through all of this and trying to lynch and attempt to delete from the political scene, and where we – where we have always been, alongside the people, are a state-run party that has fought for its country and will fight for its country. Of course, what citizens need to know is a fact that no one can dispute, which is that we have never been ashamed of or ashamed of our past. We will never be ashamed of Slobodan Milosevic, as it was a period of great temptations and challenges, a catharsis passed by by Serbia, through which Serbian citizens went through. We will always stand before citizens with all our faults and our values in the right way and we will say – Serbia's Socialist Party is here because of citizens, because citizens have given us the legitimacy never to be outside parliament, to always be in parliament since the beginning of the multi-party in the Republic of Serbia. For all those who wanted us nowhere to be seen, to disappear, the answer is clear: here we are, and we will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66536	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. My suggestion is to close this circle... (Jorge Vukadinovic: Why now.) No, I won't allow it, we're moving here to destroy the dignity of the National Assembly. Let's get on with the work. It's gone to personal matters, personal insults, and it really doesn't make any sense. (Jorge Vukadinovic: Who was insulting? You personally, here you are. As an example, you who honor Mr. Rističević. You do it all the time. (Jorge Vukadinovic: I haven't even started.) You haven't even started. Well, if you haven't started, I'm here because I'm here not to let you go on like that and get on with your work. We are subject to the agenda – Selection of Deputy Protector of the Citizens. Please also, please, and colleagues from most of us to come back, to work in line with this subject. Thank you. The word is Jahja Fehratovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66537	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, the topic ahead of us – The Protector of Citizens is an extremely important institution for all citizens of this country, and it is very important that this Citizens' Protector has a quality team around him that will help him cope with everything that means protecting the rights of every individual, every individual in this country. As members of minority nations, we are very aware of the importance of this institution and the need to get more people today or these days and this institution to help protect the rights of each individual, especially those communities that are very often discriminated, which very often have problems with certain parts of the apparatus and which very often cannot cope alone with what are today's challenges. In these challenges, let's say, what I was saying yesterday at the press conference, about the second time the car of a state institution has been burned, the House for Persons Disrupted in Development in Tutin and 2018 and here today in 2019, and now already in front of the house where his children, mothers, women and that we haven't had an epilogue since that year, that they've never been exposed, that they've never been brought in and processed by those who made this situation for the first time. It was an encouragement to do it now and again and again and it is indeed a red line that can no longer be tolerated and which is very important and that the Protector treats it. Because one who is encouraged by the inaction of certain institutions, especially the prosecution, especially the investigative authorities, to process and find those who set fire to the car of a civil servant, one of the directors of one institution, not to be at large again. Of course, here I'm talking about that unfortunately we still have certain parts of the state where the law is not sufficiently implemented and that are somehow left to ourselves. Not only are we talking about the problems of Bosniaks, the Bosniak national community, I will also mention one case of a family that appeared to us from Saturday, Macedonian-Croatian origin, a family whose son Dusan Kosovski beats four people in the centre ten days ago, who have not yet been identified until the end and the process has not yet been realised. The family fears, since it is known who did it, that it is mostly the fathers, the sons of the grandmothers, that it will affect the process itself. Although not allowed, although this institution is responsible and important in this respect to the protection of each individual, the protection of each member of the national community and it would be really important to support and assist this family, because it is a person who, in turn, is disabled, with a dioptria of 24.5% in one eye. That is why it is important for us that this institution works with full capacity, that every citizen, he was a Croatian, was a Bosnian, Albanian, Hungarian, Roma, a Serb who feels that in this country everyone is equal before the law, whether he who committed it in relation to one who was in a position or was in a position must be processed and that everyone is and should be protected and equal to the judicial and other bodies in this country. For this reason, we MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party will vote for these proposals and ask that, too, the institution of the Citizens' Protectors be more present on the ground and, let's say, that if you let me finish, that they fight to be the rights of all equally treated, and in particular the rights of those categories that are more vulnerable, including students, because we had the situation, unfortunately, that the students of the Bosniak Nationality, for three months already, have been unfair because of the game between the Bosniak National Council and certain institutions at risk of their rights, that they have better textbooks for teaching in their language, especially for the second and sixth classes. In fact, they were prisoners of what means abuse and the use of minority rights by those who are irresponsible and by those who do not care enough that everyone must have what they belong to, including students who listen to teaching in Bosnian. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66538	Thank you, colleague Fehratovic. The word has Professor Miladin Ševarlic. He's not there. The word is George Komlenski, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66539	I thank the chairman, friends and comrades, ladies and gentlemen, maybe I wouldn't even answer my word and leave my fellow MP club with more time than the group, but I have to say the next thing. The Republic of Serbia works, acts and exists in all its forms, on the whole territory of the Republic of Serbia, except for the temporarily occupied KIM territory, in its full capacity. Among other things, the Citizens' Protector is absolutely working very well, working and covering all the problems of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia in all of its territory without any discrimination, whether it is any national minority, any group that can be treated as an endangered category, as well as the majority Serb population. Therefore, it is inappropriate, unnecessarily individual cases, which are known to be solved and corrected, present and try to set up as some rule of conduct and attitude of the Republic of Serbia towards some of the national minorities living in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. I will remind you that the Republic of Serbia is the only country that, and I hope this will not be against me, even in the Constitution favours the rights of all national minorities and of all endangered categories in relation to majority life, and that is the way it should be and it is not disputed. Therefore, do not use the speaker of the parliament of the Republic of Serbia for mutual, party accounts when it comes to national minorities' status in the Republic of Serbia. I think that, to say the least, is extremely incorrect, and it is particularly incorrect to put it in some way that the Citizens' Protector, to an insufficient extent, is doing his job when it comes to Bosniaks, when it comes to rights and certain individual cases from that territory. Absolutely not. I have knowledge because I followed those reports, I have information about the degree of engagement the Protector of citizens had and has when it comes to national minorities, therefore, such qualifications are absolutely inappropriate. Of course, nothing is ideal, everything can always be even better and more functional than what it is today and for this very reason, as I said at the beginning of this exhibition, we will support and vote for the proposals that the Guardian delivers to this House, as his deputies, because it will be easier for him, as well as for the service that deserves to get the appropriate number of personnel to follow him, because it is very important for the protection of the rights of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, even better works and that is what our right is, but also our obligation to make it possible, as it is our obligation to make sure that due to the internal, political, mutual differences that exist in the region we do not question the relationship of the Republic of Serbia to national minorities in any way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66540	Thank you, Mr. Komlensky. The word is Dr Jahja Fehratovic. Right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66541	Thank you. If you have listened well, I have said that it is an extremely important and important institution of the Protector of Citizens and I agree with you that the Citizens' Protector has handled several cases, but the extent of the problem we are facing is very large and therefore we think it is very important to have this support with regard to his assistants. Of course, not everything is ideal. In the laws of the Constitution are the rights of minority communities, minority nations treated and the problem is the implementation of these legal solutions on the ground. Here, I'll specifically mention one of the freshest cases. Almost in the New Pazar Police Department, there was a contest to receive a new number of employees. According to a positive legal solution, it should be proportionate to the population, so it should be -7 Bosniaks, three Serbs, however, three Bosniaks and seven Serbs were applied. So it's not something about local squabbles. Secondly, what I was talking about is a state institution, which concerns an institution called the House of Persons Disrupted in Development, whose director is already the second victim of a terrorist act, I can freely say by local mobsters, who in March 2018, are burning the car and the investigation is still pending. Two days ago in front of the family home where his children, his wife and mother, are in the same way burning down another car. So this isn't about selective attempt and transfer of anything from the locals, it's about us wanting to alarm the public, especially the competent authorities, so that these cases are resolved to the end, as well as the case I mentioned from Subotica. This is not about the Bosniak, but about the disabled child, who is from the Macedonian and Croat marriage community, and who has been the victim of violent behaviour for which the process has not yet been completed for the reason that probably, according to the family, is involved in that case, those who are not Serbs, nor Croats, nor Hungarians, but those who are father's sons and for this reason are not resolved. So, let me just conclude one more time. It is extremely important and important for us to have this institution, as well as all the institutions and this when we are talking about protecting the institutions of the state, because the director of the state institution, not the Bosniak, and not any other one, has been attacked twice in front of his company, in front of the family house, it should be a red alarm for all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66542	Thank you, colleague Fehratovic. Right on the line, Mr. Komlenski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66543	I'm afraid my esteemed colleague didn't understand me very well in one part of the discussion that I said, and it's now in this replica and confirmed it. I'd just like to clarify the crazy thing. So what's for institutional solving is known how it works. You're in Parliament enough and you know very well how individual cases are solved when it comes to missing somewhere in the work. I'll accept that there can be, of course, nothing wrong, but one thing I have to comment on, and that's next. Now you've listed that a number of new members of the police have been received at the police station, if I understand correctly. One number is members of the Bosniak national minority, the other are Serbian nationalities. I am now asking only one question - for what reason and is it good to view it as a separate territory of the Republic of Serbia? You know, here in India, as far as I know, the number of Bosniaks living in the territory of India is almost negligible by some percentage, and I think they have two police officers of Bosniak nationality who are employed and work in India. Is that supposed to mean that in India none of the Bosniaks should be employed? I don't think you should. Therefore, if we are to observe the Ministry of the Interior, it is a republican body. You can't look from the police station to the police station, we need to look at it in a slightly wider context, and then we have an appropriate assessment of something that's going on. And one more thing, if I'm not mistaken, there are more than 100,000 Bosniaks in Vienna and, behold, I'm almost ready to bet and I'm sure there are no police officers who are employed there. So I ask you to talk about such things when we speak with extreme caution, because we stand behind every word we say, which can be misread. I can understand and I really do have a wish and we can try together to see what this problem you've been talking about about Saturday and all, but this problem in this discussion, in my opinion, is not a place, because it creates a completely wrong picture, and obviously it's about that Serbia is a state that is extremely concerned about the rights of national minorities, is that it will be and will further improve and raise to a higher level and in this context and we should work and cooperate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66544	Thank you, Mr. Komlensky. Right on the line, MP of the people, Jahj Fehratovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66545	I thank my colleagues, however, in areas where national communities make up a certain percentage of the population, so it is defined by law, proportionate to state institutions, and the national community should be represented. It's something that's right, exactly what positive right you were talking about and I absolutely support that part of your discussion. That's why it's very important that, after everything that happened in the 1990s, the national communities actually feel their belongings to these institutions and to this state. If the competition for those 10 places is reported to be close to 600 young people and only 10 of them are received, according to such a national key, it is indeed 600 families that someone else abuses or tries to abuse in what is not good. That is why we consider it extremely important and right here to talk about these issues, and precisely when it comes to the agenda of the Citizens' Protector, because it is the institution that cares or cares about all the laws being equally valid and that they treat all citizens equally, especially those who are positively discriminated against. I don't really have anything to say about legal solutions, because they're really positive. We have problems implementing these legal solutions and we have problems when certain institutions put themselves above the law and the Constitution, as was almost the case with RTS, its Council and so on. These are the problems that we have just come here delegated by our citizens to solve from the position of MPs and this tide, and I think that's something that's in the best interest of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66546	Thank you, colleague Fehratovic. Right on the line, MP George Komlensky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66547	Thank you, Chairman. I'm not going to go into any further explanations now, I hope it's clear enough. Somewhere in the beginning of this term, since I am also in the Committee on State Administration, Local Self-Government and Justice, members of a national minority have made an observation or question at the Committee's meetings as to why they have a large number of residents in the middle, a judge who is proposed is not a member of that national minority. Of course, colleagues from the High Council of the judiciary provided proper documentation and what came to pass? It turned out that the difference in the quality of the people who applied was so great that the key was inapplicable. The colleagues agreed, of course, because it was very important to judge in that community someone who was extremely good at his job. I don't want to make any kind of adjudication and analysis, I just want to say that we need to do a detailed analysis of why it happened there, and we don't bring it down to simple numbers, because we're talking about people, we're talking about people who need to enforce the law, who represent the state. So, there's a lot of things that are possible here, and what I'm absolutely sure of, since this isn't the first time that these questions are being asked, I'm sure the Office of the Protector of Citizens and other institutions would absolutely react in that direction and warn that there are some problems. Therefore, given that there is no such thing, I will still believe at this point that indeed everything that happens there and on this employment that you are specifically talking about, is happening, of course, in the good faith and the intention that it is most important that these organs are impeccable or that they function better on the ground, and ours as some people who are involved in politics and we are representatives of citizens, especially the environments we come from, is that we are just explaining that it is much more important than whether someone is called Pera or Žika, whether he is thin or fat. It is important that the work entrusted to him is done exclusively for the benefit of the community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66548	Thank you, colleague Komlenski. National MP Jahja Fehratovic, right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66549	Thank you, Your Honor. What you've done, some attempt, but you've fenced yourself well from it, from similar combinations. It shouldn't stand, because of the 600 reported, it's impossible that there aren't at least seven who are able to answer that kind of task to the end, because that would be truly devastating. I'm not ready and I won't and I don't want to believe it. But that's one of the problems. I certainly agree with you that the most important thing is that these bodies work really well, work at full capacity, and that they do not happen to be robbed by a warehouse of confiscated goods, as it did with the New Market Police Department. What is more important to us than anything else is that these positive legal solutions that truly treat national communities positively are implemented to the extent possible, because being a minority in a nation or in a country, in one place is really not easy. It would be very good for those who are always trying to put in the shoes of minority peoples sometimes, as we put ourselves very often in the shoes of the majority people, because it is very important that we understand, understand and ultimately develop the community, the spirit of tolerance, co-existence, and it is really only possible if we are all a common part of building the future of this space and this state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66550	Thank you, colleague Fehratovic. Now the word has Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66551	I thank you, Chairman. Dear citizens' representatives, given that we are considering a very important topic today, which is something that relates to the human rights structure of the Citizens' Protectors, I will begin my discussion, first of all, from something that is important for citizens and most important, which is the role of the Citizens' Protector, as a regulatory body on the one hand, and on the other, its relationship with the institutions of the system in the Republic of Serbia. All in all, it relates to the competences prescribed by law, as the jurisdiction of the Protector of the Citizens. What my esteemed colleagues commented on in previous discussions stands as absolutely correct. There were many mistakes, there were many things, which absolutely had absolutely nothing to do with the Law on the Protector of Citizens, with a regulation relating to the Protector of Citizens, there was too much politics, abuse, usurpation of other people's responsibilities, to impose politics on something not to be imposed on, which is the independence of the Simeon, or the Protector of Citizens. When we talk about this independence, it means that citizens must accept the Protector as an absolute independent. Independent of politics, independent of financial lobbys, independent of business lobbys, independent of anyone, because there is a zero degree of tolerance when it comes to any influence on the work and exercise of the jurisdiction of the Citizens' Protectors. On the other hand, mistakes appeared in the opposite direction, which is that the Citizens' Protector had been imposed against other institutions that are also independent. Since I belong to that piece, I have full freedom and the right to say that when it comes to the judiciary. And why is that? So because they were allegedly directed directly by usurping the role of courts and prosecutors because of the threat to certain rights of certain activities of the Protectors. The protection of citizens does not have the right to measurely decide that they are examining court decisions, to interfere in any way with the work of the prosecution and courts. That seemed like it. That's why when I speak to you, I can express an extremely positive attitude. Fortunately, it's gone, and that's good. It is good that citizens of the Republic of Serbia are restoring confidence in the institution of the Protector of Citizens, and as long as the Citizens' Protector is holding on to his responsibilities and legal powers, the citizens of Serbia will certainly increase that trust because they have reason to do so. What I want to point out to you is one complementary activity of the Protector of Citizens with one of the parliamentary bodies of the Republic of Serbia, or the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which is the Commission for the Control of Criminal Sanctions. Why complimentary? Because we are on the same task and in the same role, to determine the degree of protection of the rights of convicted persons, and that includes the conditions of stay in criminal and correctional institutions. Then, a way of implementing the so-called. "Indicative and prison" activities towards convicted persons, as well as treatment of convicted persons in general. And to what conclusions are we as a congregation body, of course that will be discussed by my distinguished colleagues, there is my colleague Milanka Vukojičić, so we will certainly have reason to comment on something that the Commission is doing at the same time, but also for the Citizens' Protector. As the Commission of the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we have managed to gain insight into the treatment of convicted persons in several criminal and correctional institutions. Criminal and correctional institutions in Nis, Sremska Mitrovica, CZ in Belgrade, we visited a juvenile prison in Valjevo, a educational and correctional institution in Kruševec, and before our term of office and in some other criminal and correctional institutions. What conclusions have we come to? We have come to the same conclusions that you have, and these conclusions are unequivocally saying that the treatment of convicted persons is now far better compared to the previous period, although the conditions are not met to what is prescribed by EU standards and what is indicated, but in any case these conditions have improved. When we were in the penitentiary in Nis, we realized that the leadership of that correctional institution had done much to improve the treatment of convicted persons, that from one ruined body of objects, it was all ruins, that these people were exclusively out of their own resources, without any significant support from anyone, or even from the budget, because they were protected by the budget, they were able to revitalise institutions, raise numerous objects, meet the conditions of living in cells, or prison units, to achieve the most favourable conditions when it came to open and semi-open treatment, including that closed treatment of convicted persons. It was done to Nisu in a relatively short time in the best possible way. A large economy is formed, a production plant is where convicted persons are employed, they have adequate treatment as persons employed. When we were in Sremska Mitrovica, we had the opportunity to make sure of something that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia should know, and that is that, despite the lack of capacity, despite the fact that a number of convicted persons are placed in relation to the real possibilities of the accommodation facility, these conditions are still acceptable. Of course, we must strive to make them better and it will be better if we take as an example the Panchev Penceva Penitentiary Prison, then we will realize that these are standards that are respected by the Republic of Serbia, which are approximately approximate to EU standards. I'm saying all this because we have the same vision, the same approach to solving problems. What the Citizens' Protector has pointed out, we have the exact same attitude. So, on this side we can point out that at least in this segment, I don't want to talk about other segments of protection of citizens' rights, done much, and that the Protector has done his best in this direction to recognize both problems and to recognize those values, I have to call them that, which is linked to improving the treatment of convicted persons in criminal and correctional institutions. Why was I saying all this? Because I expect you to continue this path, and therefore you have the support of the SPS parliamentary group and the SPS Group will undoubtedly vote for this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66552	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. The word now has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go, Mr. Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66553	Thank you. Dear Vice-President of the Assembly, honourable fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, I am Milija Miletic, coming from Svrlig. It is the most beautiful municipality in Serbia located near the town of Nisa, it is the most beautiful city in Serbia. Otherwise, I was elected from the SNS list in the Serbian Parliament, and I represent the United Peasant Party, whose president I am. Otherwise, I have always spoken and I will speak in the next period for problems, for those things that happen in southeastern Serbia, in small areas, in mountainous and mountainous areas, in our villages, about the problems of our people living in the country, and today, what I've been saying now, that is what the Citizens' Protector is concerned about. A large number of our people living in such environments, a large number of our women, children living in our villages, have the need to give them more attention, to give them greater opportunity to have greater benefits, to have a safer future. We are witnessing that our women's problems in the country, that our children's problems in the country, we are talking here, we are talking about the government, but the results must be a little more visible. I expect that, in the coming period, you together from your obligations, Protector of citizens, deputy and all others, to put more emphasis on these people living in the country, living from the village, on marriage communities living in those villages. I'm talking about villages similar to the Srlig municipality, Gajin Han, in villages where there's no sewers, no water, no water, no ambulance, or the ambulances are closing. I'm talking about villages where new cooperatives need to be opened, more invested in these villages as regards water, sewers and infrastructure. The biggest thing for all these people is that they have, if they live in the country, not enough opportunities to have jobs, to have more resources through their land. Once again, I would like to thank you and invite my fellow Members to vote and I will vote in favour of this bill, because my colleague, Verica Radeta, was talking about some of the things I wanted to talk about. Thanks again and I'll vote for the proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66554	Thank you, fellow Miletic. The word is Dr. Muamer Zukorlic. He's not there. The word is Marjana Maraš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66555	Thank you, Chairman. Dear representatives of the Citizens' Protector, honourable fellow Members of the People's Parliament, today we are considering a proposal to appoint a Deputy Protector of Citizens. This is a very important issue, given the importance of this institution and the fact that, through the institution of the Protector of Citizens, we are achieving a special kind of control of the work of public institutions, that the Citizens' Protector is examining and monitoring whether the state authorities and organisations, which exercise public powers, are legally solving certain rights and interests of citizens. The obligations of the Protector are not only to control formal respect for the law, but also to be ethical, impartial and correct in the work and respect of individual dignity in contact with the public administration. The assignment of the Simeon is a corrective nature and is its obligation to point to a lack of public institutions' work, to prevent and assist the work of these institutions, and all in the best interests of the citizens. As Deputy Citizens' Protectors assist the Citizens' Protector in carrying out the tasks of his authority under the powers conferred on him, especially with regard to the protection of the rights of members of national minorities, persons deprived of freedoms, gender equality, child rights and persons with disabilities. I believe that the appointment of Deputy Protectors will certainly create preconditions for the even better quality work of the Civil Protection Office, of which citizens and institutions certainly have great expectations. I believe that the appointment of Deputy Protector of Citizens, in addition to the classical function of the Protector of Citizens, is a control of public administration and protection and the promotion of human rights and freedoms, will continue with the development of other roles of this significant institute, in which the Protector of Citizens appears as an indirect participant in the anti-corruption process and as an entity that has significant involvement in the process of building a political system through the rule of law. On the occasion of yesterday's Human Rights Day, the Citizens' Protector issued a statement saying that Serbian citizens in large numbers this year welcome this date faced with violations and difficult rights, both in the fields of economic, social and property rights. Intolerance and violence create an undersecure environment and seek further efforts from the state and society to fully respect the rights of individuals. Citizens have warned of daily violations of their rights and freedoms, demanding that their daily lives respect guaranteed rights and that we should not forget the fundamental value of every right, that is respect for the dignity of every person, non-discrimination, tolerance, solidarity, which is most often spoken of by the most vulnerable social group. The protector also pointed out, according to him, a devastating fact, and according to us, that every sixth child in Serbia is a user of social protection, social protection services in the area of family relations and gender equality. He stated that the institution's attention is focused on the problem of violence. In these 16 days, activists against violence against women, which began on November 25th and ended yesterday, December 10th, the International Human Rights Day, more than 1,700 organisations and in more than 100 countries, are marked these 16 days. Both our state and our institutions are involved, and the very municipality from which I come, the Vrbas municipality, through the Commission to monitor the achievement of gender equality. And this year, a roundtable was organised, on which it was found that the emergency measures that were legally introduced, contributed to the prevention of violence. They also cited in certain cases some abuses of self-imposed emergency measures by women, which is interesting in their findings, but they certainly also stated what the Protector of Citizens states, which is that violence should be more visible, that we should all work together to become a society with zero tolerance towards violence. It was very interesting to me that, within the Committee on Human and Minority Rights, we had the opportunity to get acquainted with a survey of the OSCE Mission, which was working. It's a qualitative and quantitative research. It states that our country, when it comes to average, does not bounce off a European average when it comes to violence. But here's my colleague Milly spoke before me. He speaks very often to his environment and as a representative of the rural environments. I would like to point out that in this study, all forms of violence in rural areas are less than urban areas. That was an interesting piece of information for me that was listed. It is only stated that when it comes to physical violence, it is in a slightly higher percentage when it comes to persons younger than 15 years of age. The citizens' protector stated that when it comes to members of national minorities in Serbia, Serbia is placed, when it comes to their position, in the order of countries that have achieved minority rights and freedoms, even surpassed some European standards, which is very important to point out. When it comes to the field of media rights and freedom and public information, the area is characterized by hate speech, frequent attacks on media, media employees, which endangers their position and prevents them from doing their job with dignity. I believe that the Deputy Protector of the Citizens will do with him what their obligation is, and that as an independent and independent state body, tasked with protecting and improving respect for freedom and rights, their task will be in the coming period. We, as a parliamentary group, will support these proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66556	Thank you. The word is Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66557	Thank you. Dear fellow Members and fellow Members of the People, honourable representatives of the Protector of Citizens, I would like to point out that the Citizens' Protector is acting within the framework of the Constitution, the law, other regulations and general acts, as well as ratified international contracts and generalised rules of international law. The Citizens' Protector was established by the Law on the Protector of Citizens, which was brought back in 2005 and just by selecting its first Citizens' Protector, the Republic of Serbia has been defined for the development of democratic relations between all citizens and authorities, and the ultimate goal of the Civil Protection Institution is to contribute to the achievement of freedom and rights, the principles of equality and the preservation of the dignity of all citizens. The Ombudsman and his team pay particular attention to and protect and improve the rights of children, protect and improve gender equality, protect and improve social and cultural rights, protect and improve the rights of persons with disabilities and old persons, protect and improve economic and property rights, protect and improve their rights to a healthy environment, protect and improve the rights of members of national minorities, protect and improve the rights of persons deprived of freedoms, protect and improve civil and political rights. For the good and quality work of the Protector of Citizens, of course, a good team of associates is also needed. When we talk about political rights, the chairman, you will allow me to comment on the following. In fact, we are all familiar with the fact that the OSCE has carried out an analysis of electoral laws and procedures in the Republic of Serbia from 2003 to 2017 and issued appropriate recommendations that we will follow because we have no problem with this and all in order to improve the electoral process. We all know that the elections at all levels, local, republican and regional levels are closer to us, and we want additional participants to have the best conditions in the electoral process. We want to improve all legislative and sublegal acts concerning the electoral process, but also to complete the laws concerning the behaviour and functioning of political officials. All four legislative proposals that were in the tide yesterday have the same goal, which is to improve electoral legislation and represent one continent. Also, I want to remind the public that the system electoral laws have not been changed and they have been the same in the 2008 and 2012 and 2016 and 2017 elections, and we are ready to correct the weaknesses that have been inherited. In any case, it is our goal, and it is in our interest that our election process cannot be objected to either in the country or outside of it, because we will not allow the upcoming victory of the SNS and the politics of our President, Mr. Alexander Vukic, to throw away the slightest shadow, some unspeakable legal text adopted by the former government, i.e. the former regime or the statement of an opposition who dreams of censorship. To not lie, we all know it well, and even the sparrows on the border, that all these recommendations of amendments and additions of legal proposals are directed against only one person, and that is the president of the state, Mr. Alexander Vukic. Imagine the absurd, a man with his team working daily, day and night, working on the recovery and rebirth of our country, which by 2012 was a hopeless, dreary, unperspective country and yet to be banned from talking about the results of the work, which is duty and obligation towards citizens. Really unheard of. There's something else I want to say. The attempt of Bosko Obradovic and his few followers to violently break into the National Assembly, using the flag of the Republic of Serbia, is a savage act of unworthy normal man and an indication of what kind of Serbia they offer to citizens and how and how and how those from the Alliance for Serbia want to come to power, and they want to come to power with violence, offering citizens hangers, rapes, beatings, motor saws, lynching, lies, riots, bloodshed, not normal and prosperous Serbia and not normal and prosperous citizens' lives. They forgot only one thing – that the will of citizens is law and that in the elections, citizens will declare what kind of country they want, and I am deeply certain that citizens want a decent, successful, advanced, modern, prosperous Serbia, which every day proves and works by Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic and SNS. In line with its personality structure, Bosko Obradovic is in an uncivilised and aggressive manner abuses the national flag, bordering himself with a serious disorder that should be adequately viewed and sanctioned, and is being issued for some serious politician with the intention of leading the state. Let me tell you as a doctor, an incompetent man can't lead himself or take care of himself, let alone run the state and take care of her. Finally, I congratulate President Vukic on all of us, congratulating the citizens of Serbia on the gold medal for credit from the city of Athens received by our president from the mayor of Athens, from our Greek friends who thus show their long-standing friendship with our president and our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66558	Thank you. Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 87, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today even after 1800 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Also, in accordance with Article 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I set a break of one hour and continue at 15.00 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66559	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue to work further. The word has a National MP, Danica Bukvić.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66560	Dear President, the Honorable Protector of the Rights of Citizens with Associates, Honorable fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, allow me to refer to the importance of the citizens' institution itself, as well as the importance and effectiveness of its activities for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, in today's discussion when we talk about the choice of Deputy Citizens' Protectors of Citizens' Rights. The citizens' institution today exists in almost all countries of the world, and we are free to say that rarely which institution has experienced such great popularity and widespreadness. The obligation of the state and its institutions is to protect human and civil rights and freedoms. These rights and freedoms represent a border between the state and citizens that must not be exceeded. However, we often hear that the state, state institutions or officials in their operations knowingly or unconsciously violate guaranteed rights and freedoms. In these situations, the Protector of citizens is a mechanism of defence and protection of civil rights. It is an independent and independent body that seeks to correct justice, acting not only on the request of citizens and citizens, but also on official duty. Although without great legal authority to examine and control the work of the public authorities, the effectiveness of the Citizens' Protector is also reflected in the ability to present to the public problems and the situation in the protection and exercise of civil rights and freedoms by submitting regular annual reports to the National Assembly. Just a few months earlier, we had the opportunity to discuss and adopt a regular annual report by the Protectors of Citizens. The report was comprehensive and covered all the issues and responsibilities in which the Citizens' Protector is acting. In his work, although the Law on the Protector himself points to it, the Protector pays special attention to the protection of the rights of members of national minorities, the rights of children, the rights of persons with disabilities, gender equality, and the rights of persons deprived of liberty. When we talk about the rights of the child in the last Protector report, it is stated that nearly half of the children in Serbia are receiving some kind of social giving, which tells us that poverty among children is very widespread. It points to the need to protect children from violence, both peer violence and physical punishment for the method of education. The lack of professionals providing services and support to children is evident, especially children with disabilities. In health homes across the country, there are as many as 250 pediatricians missing. Development advisory centres have only 36 municipalities of 159 municipalities in Serbia, and judicial decisions cannot be carried out because there are no psychologists in some centres for social work. Sexual abuse of minors and early marriages, the protection of children from every type of violence and exploitation requires the involvement of professional assistance to children, prevention, prevention and the adoption of adequate norms. I would especially point to the difficult position of people with disabilities. Recently, on 2 December this year, we marked the International Day of Persons with Disabilities and heard remarks that this group of citizens are facing. It is necessary for a person with disabilities to enjoy human rights equally and have equal participation in social life. That is why it is necessary to remove barriers to the full integration of persons with disabilities into our society. One of the biggest problems with disability is the low employment rate. The application of the legal framework, which regulates rehabilitation and employment of people with disabilities, has not produced concrete results in this area in recent years. Also, the system of services and support for disabled people is still not sufficiently developed and adequate. One of the preconditions for the full participation of disabled persons in all areas of social life is accessibility. In everyday activities, a person with disabilities faces obstacles to the movement, use of public transport, and rarely happens to be inaccessible institutions and institutions in which citizens should join in order to exercise their rights and their freedoms. It is also necessary for the competent authorities to implement the electoral process to provide conditions for the exercise of electoral electoral rights to persons with disabilities. I would also pay attention to gender equality and say that there are insufficient numbers of women in public functions and management functions, that there is something better at the republican level than at the municipal level, but I hope that this will be better in the future. There are also numerous objections from citizens, or citizens, as to the payment of maternity leave, and as we have witnessed in recent months that domestic violence has been strongly expressed. I would like to refer to another category of the population, and these are our old citizens whose rights are at stake, especially those who have been denied the right to work after losing their jobs, where years represent the only limiting factor. I would also point out the importance of introducing an institution of the Protector of the Rights of Patients established in every health institution, whose duty and obligation is to protect the patient in the exercise of his right to health care. I must say that the number of complaints is on the rise, that citizens are not sufficiently informed about how they can use their rights and that is why it is necessary to continue to work on better informing citizens about their rights. The protection of citizens has been functioning for several months without deputies, and now it is an opportunity to choose these deputies, and thus we will contribute to making the work of this institution more quality and protection of citizens better. Since the adoption of the Law on the Protector of Citizens, his deputies have done a significant job and, thanks to their activity, the public is familiar with numerous violations of human and civil rights and freedoms. Finally, I would like to say that it is necessary for us to work together in the future to eradicate any kind of discrimination and violation of civil rights and freedoms and thus contribute to the construction of a tolerance society in which everyone has equal rights and equal opportunities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66561	Thank you, colleague Bukvic. The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66562	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Citizens' Protector with Associates, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, stands before us today a proposal by the Citizens' Protector on the appointment of Deputy Citizens' Protectors. The biographies that we have received, which you have provided us with, show that lawyers with great legal experience, dealing with various materials, lawyers who, apart from calling a graduate lawyer, have other knowledge and skills that can certainly improve the quality of their work, i.e. specifically improve the quality of work when it comes to the position of Deputy Protector of the Citizens. Why is it important to choose a Deputy Protector of the Citizens? Because the Citizens' Protector as an independent body plays a very important and responsible role in the aspect of the protection of the rights of every citizen of the Republic of Serbia. By strengthening human capacities, which is the choice of deputy citizens' protectors, human resources will be strengthened, and thus citizens will be able to come to their answers in a faster and more efficient manner following their complaints. What I want to point out is that you have received 9,120 items in a year, solved for them, but what I want first of all to point out and commend is your personal conversation with 1,900 citizens. This is very important because only the best in a direct conversation with citizens can you see and see in the right way all those needs they have been denied in the exercise of some right mainly in front of the authorities of the state administration. Also, I would like to commend the opening or start of an emergency response work in some situations. Here, in your report, you stated that 88 emergency applications were filed and that you responded immediately to 50 applications. Why is this important? Because life can't wait. Life takes place every second, and someone in that very second could be at risk of life, as could be the life of that child from Sjenica, which you listed in your report, or the life of an 85-year-old woman who could not have been in a quick and efficient way to achieve the right to health legislation, and thus to use the right to health care. What else do I want to say, and what's so important? I would like to point out that in your proposal for Deputy Protectors of the Citizens, you say that they will deal with, that they will, of course, go to specialization, mean, acquire more knowledge, skills and skills, to work in highly sensitive areas, which are protection of the rights of persons deprived of liberty, to work in matters of gender equality, to work in matters of protection of the rights of national minorities, to work in matters of protection of persons with disabilities. These are all highly sensitive areas, and I hope that your deputies who are elected with due attention and completely professionally, responsibly and responsibly will approach the resolution of each of the complaints filed. As a member of the Assembly's Commission for the Control of Criminal Sanctions, we have visited several prisons in which persons are deprived of liberty and, of course, we can absolutely agree on what you have stated, that Serbia has achieved and that significant progress has been made with regard to the protection of persons deprived of freedoms. Their conditions are quite decent, their treatment is also satisfying, their work-occupational therapy is also satisfying, and what has particularly impressed me, it is that those who are on a prison sentence can acquire degrees on which, of course, they do not say that they are acquired in Nis or Sremska Mitrovica, but diplomas with which they can go out of prison and engage in labour activities, in all social life flows, because through inclusion in the work they achieve, in fact, the resocialization of the returnees' faces from prison. I would also like to point out that this government has done a lot of work to improve housing capacity when persons are deprived of their prison freedoms. First of all, I want to highlight the construction of a brand-new Panchev prison for 500 prisoners, 300 convicted persons and 200 detainees, according to the most modern European standards. I would also like to commend the Ministry's involvement. Along with EU funds, a new facility has been built for Serbia's only women's prison, which is Zabela prison in Pozarevec for 160 convicts. It's also such a big shift when it comes to the protection of the face of deprived freedom. I would also like to point out that a significant shift has been made in this area, and as regards training and the acquisition of new knowledge and skills of employees working in these institutions, psychologists, educators, guards, security, etc. Why does it matter? Because the number of complaints filed by you, which have been filed by persons deprived of freedom, no complaint relates to abuse, or in any way controlled institutions have committed any violation of psychic, incomparableness, in fact, physical and psychological integrity. It is a very significant raising of the awareness of employees in that part and in that segment. I would like to stress that much has been done to reduce the overcrowding of prisons, so in 2012, when the SNS came to power, the prisons were overcrowded - 156 prisoners were on 100 beds. Today that number is much smaller. Of course, this part should continue to promote this area, but, of course, significant shifts have been made. I must further point out that by 2012, the yellow robbery tycoon company Dragan Djilas, Boris Tadic, anti-constitutionally declared the state of emergency, in 2003, against the constitutional aspect of the constitution at the time, and arrested about 12,000 citizens. Of those 12 thousand citizens, only a small number of citizens have been charged. So they've been arrested against the law. It's not happening today. I must also point out that in the area of protection of national minorities, very significant progress has been made and Serbia is highly ranked in Europe in respect of the rights of national minorities and is in front of many European countries that are members of the EU. Was it so in the time of the yellow tycoon company Dragan Djilas, Boris Tadic, these loudspeakers and bullies, Jeremic, Obradovic, etc.? Of course not. Dragan Gilas allowed about 30,000 Roma to be completely legally invisible during the exercise of power. What does that mean? This means that it endangered life, health, the identity of 30,000 Roma who had no single personal document and could not achieve any human rights. But that's not all. This yellow robber, the tycoon, Dragan Gilas has displaced the Roma from Belgrade into tin containers. And of course, in television cameras, he said then that he was not even solving the Roma issue, because what he cares about about the Roma is that he was interested in the location on "Bellville," and the location at "Bellville" assigned to his tycoon, to whom other than Miskovic. When it comes to people with disabilities, significant progress has been made. There's still a lot of obstacles and difficulties there. The promotion and protection of persons with disabilities should be a permanent obligation, both as MPs dealing with the legislative framework and with all those implementing the law. But I must commend one segment of your work, which is providing advisory legal support to people with disabilities, even when you as an independent body are not competent to resolve their issues. This is also important from the point of view of obtaining accurate and timely information and for the full notification of these persons. There's just one more thing I'd like to say, and that's the protection of a child's rights. The children are our future. This government, our President Alexander Vucic, and how he is working to promote and demographic policy that should contribute to the improvement of our country's birth rate. What was I actually going to say? You stated in your report that early underage marriages, that is, marriages of children, as well as any kind of child abuse, should be paid particular attention to sexual abuse. Regardless of this, regardless of the positive legal regulations, Judge Miodrag Majic, the Court of Appeals did not object to the promise of a 13-year-old girl, that the perpetrator of that promise would declare him innocent, or release him even though the Supreme Court in Panchev had reached a five-year sentence. It's a scandalous decision by the judge, and it can't happen to us. Finally, of course, I would like to point out that I hope that you are joining the spiral violence headed towards the president of the National Assembly, the spiral violence waged by this yellow tycoon company in various aggregate states, Đilas, Tadic, Jeremic, Obradovic. Also, I hope you join the convictions of drawing a target on the body of the President of the Republic, on false affairs, on the most disgusting verbal messages that are sent to his family, brother, children, parents. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66563	Thank you, colleague Jevtović Vukojičić. The word has been made by MP Vesna Ivkovic. Here you go, colleague Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66564	Dear Chairman, respected representatives of the institution of civil protection, respected fellow MPs, today we are discussing a proposal by the Citizens' Protectors to elect three Deputy Citizens' Protectors, as these places have been vacant for a long time. We believe that the Guardian of Citizens has proposed to whom, with full confidence in their expertise and dedication, he can entrust certain responsibilities. In order to remind citizens, above all, to say that the Guardian of Citizens is an independent state body that protects the rights of citizens and controls the work of the Authority of the Administration established by Article 138. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and its competences and work roundabouts, are closer to being governed by the Law on the Protector of Citizens, adopted in 2005. I will also refer to the definition of the Citizens' Protector given in Article 1. The Law on the Protector of Citizens, which says – The Protector of Citizens is an independent state body that protects the rights of citizens and controls the work of the authorities of the state administration. It is the authority responsible for the protection of the property rights and interests of the Republic of Serbia, as well as other bodies, organisations, businesses and institutions entrusted with public authority. So, the Citizens' Protector takes care of the protection and improvement of human and minority rights and freedoms and, according to my colleague Mira Dragas, should be a guideline to the authorities in order to remove any irregularities. The role of the Protector of Citizens is important both for the democratisation of society and for the improvement of the work of state bodies, i.e. the entire public administration sector, before which citizens exercise their civil, human and minority rights established by our Constitution and international law. To remind them that under the law, the Citizens' Protector has four deputies who assist him in carrying out the tasks laid down by law within the framework of the powers conferred on them by making sure that certain specialisation for the performance of the tasks under this jurisdiction is ensured, especially with regard to the protection of the rights of persons deprived of liberty, gender equality, child rights, the rights of members of national minorities and the rights of persons with disabilities. In one word, keep in mind whether it is acted unconsciously and whether dignity and fundamental human rights are violated. This time, we choose three of the four Deputy Protectors of Citizens who, in accordance with the criteria set out in the Law, have been proposed by the Citizens' Protector. A few months ago, we adopted a report on the work of the Citizens' Protectors, and I must point out that the contact of the Ombudsman with parliament is very important, because it conveys its results of work and experience, as well as the submission of reports to the competent committee and the Assembly and the co-operation of the MPs, it is open to what is being systematically and individually tormented by citizens of Serbia and with which state bodies have insufficient good communication in the process of exercising their rights or the exercise of their legal obligations. In this sense, the role of the Protector is to point to weak points and to make recommendations that need to be changed, in order to comply with the needs of citizens. The institution of the Protector of Citizens is very important and crucial for every organised and democratic society, as well as for the mutual exchange of experiences to improve the good practice and efficiency of independent institutions. A positive experience from the work of the Protector of Citizens is also a good recommendation for all local self-governments to establish an institution of the local Ombudsman so that citizens are as close as possible to protecting their civil and human rights in cases where some part of the public sector is scheduled or inadequately responding. That would circle the entire system. When it comes to proposed candidates for deputy citizens' protectors, the SPS parliamentary group will support these proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66565	Thank you, colleague Ivkovic. The word has a folk MP, Violeta Lutovac Djurdjevic. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66566	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Citizens' Protector, respected representatives of the Civil Protection Institution, today we are discussing a motion for a decision on the election of a deputy member of the Citizens' Protector. At the very beginning of my presentation, Mr. Pasalic, I would certainly appreciate your work, noting that I am of the opinion that an adequate choice of Deputy Protector of the Citizens will make your work much easier and also improve the work of the Civil Protection Institution. The law certainly states that the Deputy Protector of the Citizens is elected by the National Assembly to the majority of the votes of the MPs, of course, on your proposal. After the election of deputies, your authority is to hand over powers to your deputies in cases in which they will act and these will be cases in the protection of the rights of the child, as regards the protection of the rights of persons deprived of liberty, gender equality, then, the protection of the rights of members of national minorities and the rights of persons with disabilities. It is clear that the institution of the Protector of Citizens should exist for the sake of citizens, that it works of course in the interests of citizens and, in addition, to remain an independent body. I'm not so sure that the previous Citizens' Protector acted like this and ran this institution and was at the service of the citizens, and even less that she worked as an independent body. This led many citizens, who addressed this institution for help, to seek protection in accordance with the Constitution, in accordance with the law, to question the work of this institution. Your task is certainly to control, in addition to protecting the rights of citizens, of all citizens, the legality and regularity of the work of the authorities. So I must take the opportunity to congratulate you on your work to restore trust, first of all, in this institution, the trust of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I would like to take the opportunity to commend your presence at a joint session, which was held to mark the Day of Persons with Disabilities, which was a joint session of the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality and the Committee on Labour, social issues for social inclusion and poverty reduction. When, I saw, since I was present as a member of the board, and in direct contact with those present, persons with disabilities, talked to them and heard what difficulties they were actually facing in the field. I think it's absolutely right and it's the right way, because in direct contact with the citizens, we can find out what they need, where they actually need help. I point out that this direct contact with people restores citizens' trust in the institution, and certainly leads to better efficiency in the work of your institution that you represent. Last year, we saw this from the 2018 Report, the 2018 Work Report, submitted to the National Assembly, addressed more than 9,000 citizens, of which 3,400 were complaints. You have also made direct contact with the citizens and conversation with 1,900 even citizens and it is truly commendable. I also want to praise that you formed the Emergency Department, the emergency response, in fact, in December, it seems to me, in 2018, where this department gets the task of responding urgently to the complaints of citizens and that you have achieved envious results when it comes to protecting the rights of children and protecting the rights of persons with disabilities. If someone cares about giving proper work and strengthening institutions, it is certainly this government, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to seek to protect institutions, to strengthen their work, to preserve their work and, of course, to preserve and restore citizens' trust in this institution. We all know how much the previous Citizens' Protector, Sasa Jankovic, has destroyed this institution, but Serbia has survived and endured it, and we have certainly given you, Mr Pasalic, trust and you have managed to justify it and bring this institution into order. I hope that the newly elected Deputy Protector of the Citizens will certainly help greatly in the work. I am sure you too are joining the condemnation of Bosko Obradovic's behaviour. I can't call him a National MP and a colleague, because if the MP were nice, he'd come quietly to the door of this high house, just like we come to work here every day. You know for sure what happened on Saturday, that he violently tried to enter the House of the National Assembly, smashing glass at the front door, that he had neatly cursed his mother to all of us, probably all who are in the National Assembly, who are working and who have anything to do with the congregation. I believe it is absolutely for every conviction and it is absolutely unacceptable, but it is clear that the Alliance for Serbia's policy is such and of course the mentioned Bosko Obradovic. It is a policy of violence, hate policy, disrespect, swearing and destruction, and SNS policy is the security of citizens, new jobs, new investments, new factories. The citizens certainly made a difference a long time ago. I certainly wish you a lot of success in your work, as well as your deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66567	Thank you, colleague Lutovac Djurdjevic. The word has the People's MP Daniel Stojadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66568	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Pasalic, with his associates, all human rights are born free and equal in dignity and rights. In this sentence from the UN Declaration of Human Rights, I would like to remind you of yesterday's International Human Rights Day. Since it is important for urban, civil and human rights to be protected, it is very important for the state to ensure respect, understanding, and full application of fundamental rights and freedoms. We have before us three deputy citizens' protectors. I would remind you that the Citizens' Protector is an independent body established by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which protects the rights and freedoms of all citizens and controls the work of the authorities of the state administration. In addition to the control carried out by the authorities of the state administration, the importance of the Protector is also reflected in the public's ability to draw attention to certain problems and violations of human and civil rights and freedoms. The legal obligation of Simeon is to protect citizens' rights and all procedures carried out in its work by the Protector of Citizens established by the Law on the Protector of Citizens, whether he acts by official duty or by appeal and by the demands of citizens and citizens. In its work, the Protector pays the utmost attention to the protection of the rights of citizens in the fields of protection of human rights, the rights of members of national minorities, the rights of children, the rights of persons with disabilities, gender equality and the protection of the rights of persons with special needs. I would remind you that in your work, the Citizens' Protector should adhere to the moral principles and principles of independence, impartiality, neutrality, political non-compliance and confidentiality. It is good for citizens to know that there are mechanisms to protect their rights and freedoms, but the Civil Protection Institution has been functioning for months without three deputies. The selection of these three deputies will allow for a better quality work of this institution. By delegation of the act of jurisdiction from the Protector of Citizens to the Vice-Citizens, it will in the future achieve its rights and freedoms in a faster and easier way. We also know that during the past period since the established Protector institutions, the deputies have just done a large and significant part of the job. The SPS parliamentary group will support the proposal for a decision on the election of Deputy Citizens' Protectors, all in order to improve the work of the Protector institution itself in achieving and protecting the rights and freedoms of our citizens and citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66569	Thank you, colleague Stojadinović. The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66570	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Pasalic, I know commendations please you, but you are not a man of that caliber. We will lead this debate with you in another direction, which does not mean that where there is a place where we can praise, not personally, but an institution, if it is necessary for you personally, it will not be left behind at all costs, but our goal is to help you more as an institution as effective as possible. The election of three of your deputies will partially improve the status and efficiency of the Citizens' Protector, but the problem will remain unresolved until a new law on the Citizens' Protector is passed. When we gave our principled position that, according to us, the institution of the Protector of Citizens didn't even have to exist, they challenged us that it was a constitutional category and that's absolutely true. A member of our current Constitution's 138th Constitution says and foresees the possibility of introducing the Protector of Citizens. We are pleased, of course, to vote this constitution and to give huge support to adopt and accept it, but there is one problem. The Law on the Protector of Citizens has been passed before this Constitution. You have somehow the rights and possibilities. We don't say that you don't have the will, maybe even the capacity of expertise, but you don't have the opportunity. You've even opened two offices outside the seat of the Guardian of Citizens, and that's good. You've kind of gotten close to the citizens, but there's only one more serious problem left. The problem remains that the mechanisms you have are very weak or slightly effective. What does that mean? All you can do is, if you don't want to be listened to, of course, there's also the security authorities or individuals, and there's almost no need to intervene, but there are those who aren't safe. I'll tell you later, since both the National Assembly and the People's MP are a constitutional category, one case that has long awaited a solution and where something should be done to run, so if you can try it. You can make a recommendation. Will she have any big effects? In practice, in application very often won't. You know it better than we know, because you follow up, you file reports. We were lenient when he was here on the agenda your report, he was quite correct here explained, and we were leading in that direction one discussion and controversy, but the recommendation can't solve any problems. You see it by the power of your authority, and he is not small, he looks at you in your ability to perform publicly, he looks at you for submitting your report to the National Assembly because he chooses you. You have the possibility of a press statement. All of this is what in some way infringers of certain positive provisions force them to intervene, to correct their lack or their sin. That's why we say we should get there as soon as possible, and you've already been advertising and saying that there's a new proposal for a Law on the Guardian of Citizens, and maybe even before the next regular report that you're submitting to this Parliament to be on the agenda. Only then would it be likely to be effective if we already have it, if it is said that there is a protector in over a hundred countries. There's one more thing to warn you. When you do this new bill, maybe he's in a working version and he's already with you, even, the Citizen's Protector is the Citizen's Protector, however, that, whether it's a unit of local self-government, whether it's an autonomous province, whether it's a state of Serbia, has the same name. There's no need, it's also a mix-up with the citizens. When I say to the citizens, I mean those legal little ones, not those who know, I don't mean, of course, the MPs. Very often it will cause some confusion, so they will not be able to address you in the best way possible. Now, what you do is protect the rights of citizens and control the work of state authorities. The Civil Protection Act said who you can't control. You provide assistance to foreign individuals, if some of their rights here are violated, and we don't have any specific knowledge that it's some kind of mass phenomenon, that you should be making this special intervention and you're doing it well. There's one thing about your salary. You enjoy immunity, as the MPs do, we do not dispute it. Your salary, the Guardian's salary is at the height of the President of the Constitutional Court's salary, and your deputies will be at the height of the Constitutional Court. Now, the salaries of the Constitutional Court judge range from 310 thousand to 700,000 250 and some dinars, that's that court that's regimeal. There, there, it's a regime court, the Constitutional Court is a regime court. If anyone can control the work of an individual from here, Your Honor, we can say what the facts are, what the Constitutional Court's doing. First, he came to the dispensary when it came to reviewing the Brussels agreements, saying he was not in charge because it was not legal, but legal act or how, he said of the Pension Reduction Act, that it was temporary character, so he shouldn't take any position there, so we're making this conclusion. It has nothing to do with your wages now, but we're just saying that it's done in a good way, and there's every absence of your dissatisfaction being eliminated, and you've shown that it's so, by doing, by doing those tasks, which are placed in the jurisdiction of the Guardian of Citizens. Many problems Serbian citizens have with a public executioner. You've made some public statements, a team, and you've said that sometimes an executive trustee, almost without need, hires and lawyers, makes costs significantly higher for the public debtor, compared to what would be. Just one example, I have to always talk about it, we have to bring it out, that an older woman, an old woman, one, for a 500-euro debt, according to a loan shark, first came out to 3,500 euros, she must have signed that she had received so much, then she was sold a house whose area is 200 square meters, and then the vineyard and a small garden were estimated at 30,000 euros, and all sold for 10,500 euros. You would have to in such cases, of course physically it wasn't all possible so far and I don't think you can go any further that you can all the cases that appear with public executioners that you're strengthened now with three of your deputies, you can follow it, but you need a little bit of your attention to function, a little more to focus in that direction. That probably won't be a problem for you. What I said was it would be good if we tried to solve it together. A girl named Vasilija Radanovic, now seven years old, had surgery in the first day of her life, namely the first day she was born, had short bowel syndrome, had surgery. She attends preschool first, so now she attends school, but she has to be isolated from the other kids. Imagine what that obligation is, they do it with love, because it is their child, which is an obligation for her parents. This problem is also known to the Minister of Health and he showed at one point that he wanted to solve it, the case stopped, I think at the Social Security Fund. I hope it won't take long, and we're ready to give you some evidence that shows that it's all like that, so as the Guardian of Citizens, and here as a child and as a child who has a problem, it's actually a rare disease, whose treatment really costs every individual a lot. You, as Protector, now with three other deputies, should try to solve it. We discussed, when it came to your report, that is, we pointed out this problem and exactly what colleague Vukojčić, what counterpart Nedjo Jovanovic said, that the position of the prisoners in Serbia is better than we used to be, our goal as an organised society should be, not as they say, how many floor beds there are still there, but that there is not, that even those beds are not free, that they are not used enough. It's a preventive action, you can't do much here, you can do some other organs, and we need to move in that direction. We would like to see what is the status of the prisoner of Milorad Ulemek of the Legion, what is Zvezdan Jovanovic's status. You can do this and it's your duty to control it, to provide us with some information about it, which doesn't mean that you haven't taken any action or steps, and if you have, I'd like to hear it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66571	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Milimir Vujadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66572	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues, dear Mr Pasalic, we certainly appreciate that you have arrived in this respected home, along with a number of obligations and travels abroad today and in the previous days, where together we can discuss these proposals that are in front of MPs in this honored home. Otherwise, the job of the Protector of Citizens is to constantly work to improve respect for freedom and rights both for citizens and for foreigners in our country. His job is also that if he finds that some public office holders in Serbia are showing the elements of a criminal act to the state authorities, he submits criminal charges and performs all other actions to the competent state authorities. Essentially, I think the most important job of the Protector of the Citizens is to preserve the dignity of every citizen of the Republic of Serbia. If we come from these premises and a description of the affairs of your institution, or an institution whose head and general state of society you are at, I must tell you that both before you and your deputies is a truly large business. Here, after more than two years of your election in this distinguished home, we can freely say that we SNS MPs made the right decision when we supported your choice at the head of the institution you represent because that is how you and I managed to preserve that institution from the years-long devastating influence of politics. However, it seems to me that now it is your responsibility and our obligation to keep this society and citizens together also from politics, that is, some destructive policies, above all from the individuals that bear these policies today. To illustrate how I pictured it, I will return you to the past, because in June and December 1911 just before the beginning of the Balkan wars, King Peter assigned each of the 51 Serb armies to Serbian soldiers in Banjaca, each. These flags were later passed through all major battles both in the Balkan wars and in the Great War that followed. What is curiosity and what is the fact that, after I say, the fall of Serbia and the entry of Austro-Hungarian into Serbia, German Emperor Wilhem asked his General Makenzino for one of those 51 Serbian flag. His order could not be carried out because the Austrians did not capture any of the Serbian flags, none of these regiments fell into the hands of the enemy. Those flags were defended by the lives of soldiers, and today 47 of those 51 regiments are kept in deposits of the Military Museum in Belgrade, three have disappeared in the battles of the Great War when the flags, the then Serb armies, were destroyed, realizing that they themselves would be captured, destroying flags so that they would not fall into the hands of the enemy and that dignity and flags and peoples would not be violated. The fourth is probably the most important flag of the Second Infantry Regiment "Prince Michael", the first call of the Moravia Division, yes, the famous "The Iron Regiment" served as a funeral cover for King Peter and was buried with him. Why am I telling you all this? Unfortunately, the circumstances today are such that the state flag of the Republic of Serbia, in one way or another, reaches the hands of Bosko Obradovic, Bosko Obradovica, who is today the fist of today's DOS, the fist of the DS, the fist of Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic and that diverse society, but also the fist of some other power centres, above all, of those outside the Republic of Serbia, and I do not think that the destroyers of Serbia today are very different from the destroyers of Serbia from that time. However, there is also something fortunate. Fortunately for me, today's Serbian guards with the same flag that Bosko Obradovic got, I will remind you, and also Serbia saw it, also tried to tear down this respected House, the temple of Serbian statehood, but fortunately, Serbian police officers today do not differ much from their ancestors both from Serbian flags and Serb soldiers from that era. She saw Serbia as a woman, head of security for this respected House, completely bare-handed with her colleagues, succeeding in destroying the flag that day and thus showing more things. It shows, above all, that the guardians of this respected House are Serbian police officers worthy of the names of their ancestors, Serbian soldiers and flags, shows that the dignity of the flag is being preserved, shows that the dignity of this respected House is being preserved, but also shows that every citizen in Serbia is being held today. Why did I tell you this? In order to serve you as a guide in your work, that you along with these deputies who, I have no doubt, will be elected in the voting day, who really have one impressive biographies, have a reminder that this is being kept by the state, that this is the dignity of every citizen, and I have no doubt that you, along with these people whom you have proposed, whose work, in the end, you and the most responsible and who have chosen your own associates, will safeguard the dignity of every citizen and the Republic of Serbia as a whole. We, the SNS MPs, will help you choose these proposals, we will also help you in this business to preserve order and dignity in the Republic of Serbia, as we will certainly help the President of the Republic of Serbia when he seeks to expose all those lies concerning the activities of some people in the past, and here, above all, I mean "Račak" and imaginary affairs that relate to that period. We are all behind the stance of the president of the state that nothing happened in Račka, but one of the biggest frauds, which the Serbian people in the 20th century cost many victims. As long as you, your associates and the president of the state do such an important job and keep this nation's dignity as a whole, you will have the support of us Members of the SNS both in business and in the day of the election of your deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66573	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Alexander Seselj. Here you go, Comrade Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66574	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Pasalic, you may not have been able to carry out a good division of work so far, it has prevented you from responding at full capacity, but I would like to ask you if you have been informed that the SRS has handed over more than 100,000 signatures of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia in less than two months for the abolition of public enforcement, i.e. for the new Act of Executive Procedure and Security? I will remind you, in 2011, when the National Assembly's meeting then passed the law, so the ruling majority of the Democratic Party and the Socialist Party of Serbia, the Serbian Progressive Party was then against the law and the introduction of public perpetrators into Serbia. Afterwards, we saw 2015 and earlier this year that this ruling majority, the new SPS and SNS now accepted and supported amendments to the law, of course which were not essential, but thus supported the existence of public enforcement officers in Serbia. We have talked on several occasions about situations where our over-indebted citizens of Serbia have found themselves and the conduct of public perpetrators towards them. Thus, in 2017 alone, public contractors kidnapped more than 3,700 properties from over-indebted citizens of Serbia, mostly housing units, and most often up to 50 square metres. So in Serbia's current debt-confidential relationship, a third party appears next to the debtor and besides the trustee who extracts extra profits from all of this and often the debt the debtor has to the trustee is much less than the fees and what is charged by the public executioner. Today we are in a position to disrespect the human rights of Serbian citizens, to disrespect the human dignity of Serbian citizens, we can see this in 99% of the cases of public enforcement. So, they, honoring exceptions, are without any moral scruples, able to move both single parents and disabled persons, we even had a situation, a bizarre one, although it was against the law, that the perpetrators had charged from wheelchairs, so that's what happened in Serbia. We had here a life sentence without the right to pardon and whenever we said something else that would be a criticism of the law, Mrs. Kuburovic would say yes, yes, but, you know, more than 150,000 people supported that petition. Are some citizens perhaps more equal than others in Serbia? Does something mean that more than 100,000 people stand for it, that's all it was, I'll remind you, in less than two months? Is it so that the National Assembly does not discuss the law, that the problem is not seen by the executive authority in Serbia, is this how these people who signed the petition are discriminated against and are they thus disrespected by the government? So that's one obvious problem, a big one, which needs to be solved as soon as possible, it's already been in Serbia for eight years. Their existence is justice to the money they pay in the budget on behalf of the tax on an additional value. Is it possible that the principle, i.e. More effective than respect for Serbia's citizens' human rights? There are around 217 of them in Serbia, they are enormously rich, they have formed into a whole new class of people in Serbia who are all allowed and whatever they do about the execution they do along with the police. We've had cases where after those seized apartments, they sell each other at a much lower price. This is what the current situation in Serbia is, and no one is advertising and this problem is not being solved, and there is a big problem. Everyone must have the right, as provided for by our proposal for a law that is ignored in this assembly, to a minimum of 12 squares per member of the family in which it must not be implemented. So, a group of people who have usurped one of the court's powers, they have absolutely nothing to do with the citizens of Serbia and their rights. We can't have a problem, perhaps ineffectiveness of the courts, that instead of reforming the judiciary, to create an environment where courts can do their jobs, and that execution be under the jurisdiction of courts, not private persons, since public enforcement is essentially private, no, but we're not going to solve that problem, and then we gave some private people that they're living up to Serbia's citizens. We've had some cosmetic changes here, so we've seen that for municipal claims no more than 5,000 euros, flats and so on. It's not the basic problem of municipal claims, it's the claims of banks in Serbia. There are not many people who are to this extent in charge of municipal claims up to 5,000 euros, because when you don't pay for electricity once and for the second time, you already have electricity excluded, as well as anything else. The biggest current debts are to the banks. Of course, we advocate that all debts should be paid and paid and should be paid with interest, of course, but not only because it's due, but it's not in a situation that it might serve its debt on time, it's why it's being robbed and forced into the street. It's inadmissible and the state cannot allow it. It is one of the biggest problems facing Serbian citizens at the moment, and this is not being solved. So instead of turning ourselves in to these problems, we should have kept it in the hands of the courts, and then it would be a guarantee of respect for all human rights and dignity for the citizens of Serbia, not to let private people go wild like this and just looking for their prey in the property of the most in charge of Serbia's citizens. There is also this situation, which is the fact in Serbia, that those who are the most obliged in Serbia continue to be in debt, the perpetrators cannot do anything to them, and those who are the poorest suffer from those perpetrators, and that is indeed a fact. Just look at those real estates that are being preyed on. These are housing units most often up to 50 square meters. It's also a fact. Also, what we can see as the continuity of DS and SNS authorities is that employment for a certain time. So, most people by local self-government, but other public enterprises are employed for a certain time. What is the position of these people and whether they are discriminated against by other workers who are permanently employed i.e. on indefinitely? They can't have security, start a family or maybe try to solve their housing issue or anything else. In some ways these people are being blackmailed by employers, i.e. The local self-government and authorities in these local self-governments or directors of public enterprises cannot possibly count on anything concerning these three months, although these contracts may be extended. There's a big problem. If there is a need, these people should probably be admitted permanently, not all hired to end up using themselves for election campaign purposes. We've had these cases. That's what happened under DS, but it's happening now. So that's a fact. And these people are being discriminated against even in a much worse position than those employed indefinitely, i.e. For good. We also had announcements here in 2014 that when the SNS, when it forms power, when it is the largest party individually in the coalition, when it finally wins and drives out the yellow company, yellow thieves and others, it will begin to rehabilitate Serbia, etc. We had strong promises from today's President of the Republic that pensions will not be touched, pensions will not be reduced. Even he said it was better to get off our backs, which he probably meant politicians or politicians in power than to touch on acquired pensioners' rights. We had that year, only three months after that announcement by the President of the Republic, a pension reduction. Now, as possible, since we have heard that we live now in the golden age, never better, that pensions are reduced in Serbia, which is against the constitution, because pensions are not earnings, pensions are acquired rights, pensions are property. Do you think it's justified that it's fair to the pensioners? Then we heard as an argument against that fact that in fact the largest number of pensioners were not reduced pensions. Only 600,000 were reduced from close to two million. Well, that data is even more devastating, because then we see that there are actually more than a million and 300,000 pensioners who have nothing to take, there's nothing to reduce how low these pensions are. How does this live in Serbia today? Veroljub Arsic: But you've lost your mind. ) Here, Mr. Arsic gives some diagnosis. I think he may be reading his own, but I'd like to continue with this. (Veroljub Arsic: I said you were crazy, I didn't say you were sick. ) So after that we see pensioners being helped, and then the question arises, if we already have Swiss pensions and a German standard or growth that is greater than German... So we've heard that we have a growth greater than German, our 4% growth relative to German growth of 1%, and our 4% 1.6 billion euros, and German 1% is 50 billion euros, that's another story, another topic. It's important to us that we're better than Germany, and we're paying for the pensioners' help. How help is paid to pensioners in the country if you live so well, it is not clear. How do pensioners live in Serbia today? How much is the cost of living the average citizen of Serbia? We've seen how much the minimum consumer basket is worth, but the average pension for 15,000 dinars is lower. Then we also saw where the taxpayers' money was spent, i.e. budgets. We've seen a lot of NGOs being funded, we've seen, despite SNS' pre-election promises, that there's still a lot of those agencies that don't serve anything, that just build up bureaucracy. There's nothing from that quick answer office that was supposed to be formed when the advancers came to power. We've seen subsidies to foreign investors. It's even more than 15,000 euros per job somewhere. So the stranger comes here, works, gets everything for free, from land through permits to everything else. The State pays through these subsidies a factual salary to workers from the budget. So the state pays them, and the foreigners come out of here extra profits, and we have a situation that the largest number of pensioners and in Serbia have a pension that is by 15,000 less than the minimum amount of the consumer basket. It's also an evaluation of the Bureau of Statistics. We didn't make it up. What's their position? Afterwards, we heard that it was actually a gift to the pensioners because they lived so well. There's one thing that's not clear again. Pensioners aren't such a homogeneous category. Some receive 10,000 dinars and some receive 100,000 dinars of pension. This government has paid everyone 5,000 dinars equal. Is that normal? (Veroljub Arsic: Not the Government! ) Who needs 5,000 dinars, 10,000 or 100,000 dollars each month? I think there's a big difference here. It is currently the position of the most vulnerable people in Serbia, from people who have problems with the perpetrators to people who are employed for a certain period of time to pensioners who are anti-constitutionally reduced pensions. Then we heard, when we call upon that which has been taken, taken back to the pensioners, that we insult the pensioners, and do not insult them and honor them when we take away their pensions. We also heard that pension cuts are actually the highest level of pensions in history. Do you agree with that, and can you really say that today in Serbia, pensioners live well and never better, especially given the data related to the cost of living in Serbia today? We also heard that unemployment was reduced, so we see, in fact, if the unemployment rate is different, we can get to the bottom of it that everyone is employed. We can make such a reckoning that everyone is employed. What difference does it make how effective it is when it gets out on the street and looks at how people work in Serbia. People from Serbia are employed, but in Germany, in Sweden, in Finland, in Denmark, in the Netherlands, across Europe. Such a demographic outflow would not be in Serbia to live so well. I sincerely hope that when you're in full capacity now, when you choose deputies, i.e. when we choose deputies, then you will be able to do your job much more effectively and point out, however non-binding, that you point to these problems much more often, that you will deal with it, and these are currently the burning issues of the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66575	Thank you, Comrade Seselj. Right on line, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66576	I thank you, Mr. Milicevic. I have to react because on several occasions the SNS has been mentioned by two colleagues from the SRS. First of all, I cannot accept the thesis that Serbia's Constitutional Court is a regimeal court. He is not a regime court, a court that appreciates the constitutionality of laws and other regulations with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Whether someone likes the decisions of the Constitutional Court or not, that's another matter, but whether you like a decision of the Constitutional Court or not, you can't say that the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia is at this point a regime court. As regards the Constitutional Court's decision to reject an initiative to assess the constitutionality of the so-called Constitution. The Brussels Agreements, i.e. the first Brussels Agreement of 2013, I believe that one colleague did not use the most accurate and precise formulation. Namely, the Constitutional Court said he could not appreciate the constitutionality of the Brussels Agreements because the Brussels Agreements are political acts, not international agreements. The fact that the Brussels Agreement is an international agreement, it has been tried by political opponents, in particular Alexander Vukic and SNS, and they wanted to say that we have indirectly recognised Kosovo and Metohija's independence, because we have concluded an international contract, and international agreements are concluded only with foreign states or international organisations, and the Constitutional Court has taken the view that it is not an international contract, but that it is a political act. In addition, the Brussels Agreement is not ratified in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia under the law ratifying international agreements, so it is another argument that Brussels agreements have done nothing to harm Serbia and the damage of the Serb people living in Kosovo and Metohija. As for what Mr. Seselj said. I understand, Mr. Seselj, that you, as an opposition party, have the full right to insist on certain thematics that sound good to the public, but what I have to say for the same public, public executioner, so they are called public rather than private perpetrators, public executioners are not entities that make decisions about execution. The decisions on enforcement continue to be brought by courts and it is not true that your thesis that the courts are excluded from the executive procedure, i.e. from the security procedure. So the solution to the execution continues to be brought to court. The public executioner is just someone who actually does what he writes in the execution solution. What we can agree on is to review the tariffs for actions carried out by public contractors, it can be discussed, but it is not an accurate thesis, and I say because of the citizens of Serbia, that the SNS has abolished jurisdiction when it comes to execution, whether on a mobile basis, or on immovable matters.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66577	Thank you, colleague Martinovic. Right on line, MP Alexander Seselj. Here you go, Comrade Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66578	First, Nikola Selakovic, as the minister of justice, where the SNS, asked the Constitutional Court after the signing of the Brussels Agreement of 2013, that this was public, so the media transmitted it, not to declare it now. We can kind of interpret that maybe this isn't constitutional right now, but it'll be constitutional when we're actually done with all the agreements. That's how it was. Nikola Selakovic asked the Constitutional Court to be patient, and that is a fact. Who signs with whom can the Republic of Serbia sign contracts in Brussels? Can she go with her province? Can Serbia sign a contract with its local self-government in Brussels? The fact that it has not been ratified by the National Assembly does not exclude the fact that Kosovo, i.e. The "republic of Kosovo" treats Brussels in negotiations that Serbia participates in as an independent state, whether we want to or not. The mediator in these negotiations is the EU, which has recognised Kosovo's independence as defacto and dejour, as soon as it has a feasibility study on the Kosovo Republic negotiations for EU membership. There are no feasibility studies for the provinces, for NGOs, for local self-government, there are only countries. Mrs Kuburovic said earlier this year in the Assembly that the courts proved inefficient and instead of working to solve these problems, to create such an ambience in courts that they could do their job, that there was still a judicial perpetrator, and that even if more people were hired, they would be controlled by the state and their salaries would be increased and they would be paid for the effect. This could all have been a solution potentially to reduce the number of non-executions. No, it gave up because it seemed too difficult and instead allowed private persons to do so. The public executioner is a defacto privateer, and it takes us eight years to determine how many of these tariffs and how many, in most cases, honour the exceptions, have robbed Serbian citizens. So that question needs to be resolved. Just because he has the flag of Serbia in his office doesn't mean he's a state body. He can point out whatever flag he wants, but it is a fact-finding private who has no state control and who uses the police for everything he does, for all these executions he has the support of the Republic of Serbia, and what he does is contrary to respect for human rights and human dignity for Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66579	Thank you, Comrade Seselj. Legally on the line, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66580	Probably because you're talking a little more quietly, I didn't understand what you were going to say about Nikola Selakovic, but when you read the Constitutional Court's decision, then read the explanation. Therefore, it clearly states that the Brussels Agreement cannot be treated as an international contract because it is neither concluded under the law that the Republic of Serbia has. So, in our legislation, there is also an integral part of the legislation that regulates the process of conclusion and ratification of international contracts. In its decision, the Constitutional Court took the view that the Brussels Agreement was neither signed nor ratified under the law of the Republic of Serbia which regulates the procedure for signing and conclusion of international contracts. The Constitutional Court thus made clear its position, which is, otherwise, absolutely correct in legal terms that the Brussels Agreement is not an international contract. So no one intended to recognise Kosovo and Metohija as an independent state by concluding the Brussels Agreement. You are now saying, is it possible that the Republic of Serbia is concluding a contract with, or an agreement with, its autonomous province or a local self-government unit? You have to be consistent to the end. You must say that between the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the Metohija there is another act called Security Council Resolution 1244 and it foresees, the only legal link between the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the Metohija, that in Kosovo and Metohija is currently the UN's provisional administration. Even KFOR is treated as a formal UN military mission, although in this Resolution 1244, which we all call upon both you and we, because we have nothing else to call for, because our friends from Russia and China voted for this Resolution, it is said that KFOR will be present in Kosovo and Metohija as a UN military mission, but with NATO's essential participation. That's what it says. That's the formula. So, the AP Kosovo and Metohija must be treated not only from the aspect of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, but also from the aspect of Resolution 1244. One more thing you can't lose sight of. The Brussels Agreement uses neutral terms "Belgrade" and "Pristina". Nowhere is the term "republic of Kosovo", as you now say. As far as public executioners are concerned, I'm still trying to explain to you, the solution to the execution is being brought to court. It is the Court that determines what the subject matter is and how this solution should be implemented, and the practical implementation of the execution is entrusted to public perpetrators. I repeat once again, we agree on the need to review the tariffs of public enforcement. They are truly in certain situations enormous. If you'll just allow one more thing. This thing about subsidies, you always say the same thing. Look at the State Aid Control Act. Don't talk so casually - all foreign investors receive 10,000 euros each, all foreign investors are exempt from paying obligations etc. No, they're not. First, there is no difference between domestic and foreign investors, the State Aid Control Act does not make any discrimination. Everyone is an investor, whether it's domestic or foreign. The capital can be domestic or foreign. But when it comes to investment, those from Germany or Serbia count as investments in the Republic of Serbia, guaranteeing investors the same rights, whether they come from Germany or are investors from the Republic of Serbia and it is not true that each of the investors, whether domestic or foreign, is receiving 10,000 euros. He gets so much money under the criteria regulated by the State Aid Control Act. Otherwise, all these investors pay taxes in the Republic of Serbia, pay contributions to the Republic of Serbia, pay salaries in the Republic of Serbia and operate under the regulations of the Republic of Serbia, do not operate under German regulations. I don't know what that formula extraprofit means to you. This was introduced by DOS, I think Karic was hit by this extraprofit, but those categories in the legislation of the Republic of Serbia simply are gone, it does not exist.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66581	Thank you, colleague Martinovic. Right on line, MP Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66582	Well, we didn't hear that we called for Resolution 1244 at the time of the conclusion of the Brussels Agreement. And if there was no obligation to apply it, then why did we apply it all? What are the consequences of all this in the last six years? Now judges of Serbian nationality in Kosovo swear before the president of Kosovo, i.e. Hashim Thaci. Now on the ballot, in municipalities in northern Kosovo, therefore, in Leposavic, Zubin Potok, in Kosovo Mitrovica, in Zvecan, on the ballot stands the coat of arms of the Republic of Kosovo. Serbs there participate in such elections. We applied it all, and we didn't get anything. It was pressure from abroad for Serbia to go as far as possible in the effective rounding of the statehood of the Republic of Kosovo. This was the goal itself since Borko Stefanovic's time, and then the SNS and SPS governments, it is one continuity. We have always warned, as you said, of Resolution 1244. This should be the key to Serbia's position towards the future of Kosovo and Metohija, which is practically under international protection, but we see that we have agreed with mediators under the auspices of Federica Mogerini, before Catherine Ashton, who wants the Kosovo issue to be resolved as soon as possible to Serbian damage. We have not heard Mark Djuric, as head of the Office for Kosovo and Metohija, speak neither of Resolution 1244 nor of the Constitution of Serbia. We hear him talking about Kosovo's constitution when he spoke about the participation of the Serbian list in the Kosovo government. He did not say -- you from Kosovo must respect the Constitution of Serbia or 1244, but said the Kosovo constitution. If you agree with what we have said or most of the things we have said about public executioners in Serbia, I call on you as head of the ruling party's parliamentary group, the biggest parties in this parliament, to support our initiative to find our draft law on executive procedure and security on the agenda, and then to consider what would be best and to see what the position of the perpetrator should be, whether it should be in court or should be carried out by another person, how many tariffs should be, over which things cannot be done and everything else. The subsidies received by foreigners in Serbia are paid by job. That's the money that that stranger's been able to pay for a few years. So, in fact, the state money, the money we give him, he then pays the wages, and he's doing business here, and he's basically excluded from that expense he's supposed to have to do elsewhere to spend on employees' salaries. That's a fact. We finance it from the budget. What is the percentage of foreigners who have all these conditions and domestic businessmen who have these conditions? You will say, "No such domestic businessmen, they are all thieves." Well, I'm not sure they're all thieves and these strangers are fair. What have the foreigners brought us for the past 20 years? Most often, robbery privatisation, just sucking money out of Serbia, and our workers' position was really bad. So these are the facts. The fact that some domestic businessman may have a formal right to all this does not cloud the fact that in fact they do so in 90 and some percent of the foreign cases and that they benefit greatly from doing business here, and that all their costs in the first few years are certainly paid by the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66583	Thank you. Col. Martinovic, during his presentation, Seselj also mentioned SNS and SPS, so you and counterpart Nedjo Jovanovic have a basis for replication. Here you are, first of all, as president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66584	Well, it's a little hard for me to believe what Mr. Seselj is saying. I just can't figure out he's saying this about Kosovo and Metohija. Well, your party has called on Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija now in the last elections to go to the elections and vote for the Serbian list. Well, how is Kosovo and Metohija an independent state and how have we recognised Kosovo and Metohija as an independent state, and your party and, ultimately, your father, as president of the party, urged Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija to go out and vote for the Serbian list? Your party has actually denied what you just said, that for us Kosovo and Metohija is an independent state. It's not, as it's not true either, that's where you fall into a vicious circle and make one logical mistake. You say -- you've concluded "little Schengen," yes, so that's what the Republic of Kosovo is going to get into. Well, no, we're accepting so-called. ‘Little Schengen’, i.e. By signing an agreement with Albania and Northern Macedonia, they meant the Republic of Serbia within its constitutional borders, with Kosovo and Metohija, so Kosovo and Metohija are already part of the "little Schengen", but as part of the Republic of Serbia, not as an independent state. As far as these state aids are concerned, there's no need for you to construct what investors get and how much they get, etc. I'm just telling you to read the State Aid Control Act, and you'll get it all figured out. When you read that law, you will understand that if someone gets a grant of five, six or ten thousand euros, so it is clear that he cannot finance the salaries of his employees for the next five years, as you say. I mean, it's to this extent a senseless thesis that it's not worth even laying down with. I don't know if you've ever been involved in bringing investors into the Republic of Serbia? Well, it would be good if you could tell us what investment you've made. I'm telling you that this thesis of yours about that foreign investors are a pity for the Republic of Serbia is dangerous for political reasons. What you're saying now, it was only more openly said Balsa Bozovic, until he stopped coming to the National Assembly. He claimed here that China's Meita company, which opened a factory in Obrenovac, treats Serbian workers as slaves and that the Chinese are actually slave owners in Serbia, and that "Meita" counts as foreign investment, because it came from the Republic of China and received subsidies under the State Aid Control Act not because it is a Chinese company or because it is a German company, but because it is a company that has met the conditions for obtaining state aid under the State Aid Control Act. You won't have the same attitude with Balša Bozovic. There's nothing controversial about it. There's a law that regulates how much an investor can get in the name of state aid, regardless of whether it's domestic... Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: "Fiat" starts working January 15th. What do you say, Natasha? Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: On January 15th, only "Fiat" begins to work. )
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66585	Don't just get into communication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66586	What? Did Alexander Vukic bring "Fiat" to Kragujevac? Therefore, under the State Aid Control Act, any investor can receive state aid if it meets the requirements of the law. Pays taxes in Serbia, pays contributions to Serbia, employs Serbian workers. Thanks to that, not only that, but among other things, we managed to reduce the unemployment rate to below 10% in just a few years. That's what's completely true and very verifiable data.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66587	Thank you. The People's MP, Neđo Jovanovic, has the right to replicate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66588	I thank you, Chairman. Milorad Mircic: On what basis? )
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66589	One moment, Mr. Jovanovic. My colleague Mircic, if you followed the presentation of his colleagues, mentioned SNS and SPS. You have to follow. If you don't believe me, look at the stenogram. Here you go, colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66590	I hope this time, which my colleague Mircic apparently purposely tried to usurp, will allow me. As far as the SPS is concerned, I can only point out because of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that cannot be doubted, which is that together with the SNS, as a factor that is participating in the government of the Republic of Serbia, and that is important, we have made a common decision that, in the interests of Serbian citizens, and that is too much protection of Serbia's interest, we approach something that no one has done until then. It is to open the door to dialogue with Kosovo. As a result, an agreement was signed for which a respected counterpart, Martinovic, gives the correct explanation. It's not a legal act. It is a political act, because it has an inter-partes fact, not an erga omnes, which means that the two sides that signed it in a political sense are bound by words, which the party assumes and how it should be implemented. It would be better for Mr. Seselj, as a lawyer, to explain to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia what it obliges under the Brussels Agreement a signator who is a member of Kosovo's temporary institutions. What has Serbia, as the second signator of the agreement, done and how is this agreement to be implemented further? That agreement has not been verified. This agreement is not an act of conduct by the Constitutional Court. This should be clear to all lawyers with basic legal knowledge because the Constitutional Court, under the Constitutional Court Act, decides on general acts similar to those of the Constitutional Court. The Brussels Agreement is not, nor can it be. On the other hand, what is ignored is rightly respected counterpart Martinovic, Resolution 1244 is the only international legal guarantee that does not allow Kosovo, regardless of all the recognitions that have been made, to be treated as an independent sovereign state, because, as long as Resolution 1244 is in force and is in force, it is a guarantee and a barrier that Kosovo can be treated as a sovereign and independent state. That is why this Resolution 1244 is a very important document for us. We must not close our eyes to the existence of this document. As far as public executioners are concerned, as a lawyer, a lawyer, I must point out one fact that, no matter how much we dispute, delegates to public executioners stand – before the institution of public enforcement is introduced, the courts were overrun by cases of execution of several hundred thousand. Repeat, several hundred thousand. I'm talking all over Serbia. After the introduction of the public enforcement institution, in a relatively short time what the perpetrators in the courts could not have done was carried out by public perpetrators, which means that trustees in the legitimate and legal procedure have settled their claims. We have just passed a law in this house that protects executive debtors, and what we have to do, we need to review the tariffs by which the perpetrators charge their fees.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66591	The People's MP, Alexander Seselj, has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66592	We have supported and urged Serbs from Kosovo to vote for the Serb list, because the Serbian list is under government control in Belgrade and there is nothing controversial about it. A better Serb list than to be there is a coalition of Serbs who are open traitors and, among other things, we have seen them address voters in Albanian. There's no dispute here. We don't hide it, and we don't regret it, and it was our political decision. Is the Republic of Serbia today due to the signing of the Brussels Agreement in a worse situation than it was about Kosovo and Metohija? Yes, she has fulfilled everything, and Pristina or the interim institutions in Pristina or the Republic of Kosovo did not, and she had this obligation, and we have had bombing announcements here that we, among other things, won five zeros, that this is a great day for Serbia, Aleksandar Vucic even said after that second agreement that the Serb community is forming tonight. What was all that about? Mr. Jovanovic says inter party, they haven't met anything, and we've fulfilled everything. Then let's get back to the way we were before. We go there, we raise these customs, we bring down these administrative crossings there, there's nothing more, you haven't met yours, it doesn't count, it can't, from now on Mrs Gojkovic is calling elections for institutions in Kosovo i.e. for local self-government in Kosovo. We have our judges, the flag of Serbia, not KPS, etc. Then let's do it. When you last said that since you came to power, it seems to me, not once, that you should return to 1,000 members. soldiers and police officers in Kosovo and Metohija under Resolution 1244. That's what we heard while you were in the opposition. When you came to power, you didn't talk about it. As far as subsidies are concerned, I'm talking about reality. The reality is that in Serbia foreign investors are privileged and that they get these amounts. This, of course, also enables domestic businesses to act as a general act, but that does not happen in reality. Dusan Vujovic, an ex-progressive piece, as finance minister was here, seems to me, in two governments, you chose him, said recently as a World Bank expert, two weeks ago, that Serbia with this model that it has, giving foreign investors large subsidies, would develop and reach EU levels in only 250 years. His press statement can be found on the Internet. That's what your former finance minister said. So much for that subsidy program. I am very glad that Mr Jovanovic also noticed that there is a very big problem with these costs of execution, but I am afraid that he is wrong still has hundreds of thousands of non-execution cases, but there are also too many wealthy perpetrators who, having the support of the state for execution, have robbed the poorest and then shared their properties. housing units. In most cases, honor of exceptions. I would like, if you've identified the problems, that we discuss it at the National Assembly's session, that you put and support the bill and come to the Assembly's agenda, and then you state your opinion, we'll have ours, the SNS and its representatives tell the SNS's opinion, and we'll immediately solve all the problems we have by law and see who can be robbed, who can't, how much to pay and everything else. If you're sure of what you're talking about, there's no reason why you shouldn't support this initiative.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66593	Thank you, Comrade Seselj. The People's MP Aleksandar Martinovic has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66594	Things, Mr. Seselj, aren't as simple as you're trying to introduce. First, by signing the Brussels agreements, the Republic of Serbia lost nothing in Kosovo and Metohija. We have received that there is a obligation for Pristina to enable the establishment of a Community of Serb municipalities, we have obtained that Serbs in municipalities where most of them can have their regional police commander, and on the other hand you still have the presence of the Republic of Serbia in KIM and on a number of grounds. KIM health institutions are financed from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, school, kindergartens. The KIM elections, parliamentary elections, for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, are also held at KIM, in all those municipalities where it is physically possible to do so. Here you have in the SNS parliamentary group people living in KIM, who were elected in the last elections, and their residence is on KIM - Stanija Komirović, professor, Milovan Krivokapic, Mr Dragan Veljković, etc. These are the people from KIM, elected to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016. So, the state of Serbia is not completely squeezed out with KIM. One part yes, but one part we're not. And now we're fighting to keep what we have on Kim and try to make something else happen. What I said about supporting the Serb list, I didn't say in any pervasive sense. I think it was a wise decision. It's been a while since we've hit the talambas and tried to represent each other as traitors or these others as heroes, when it comes to KIM. We are now all on the same task, and you from the Serbian Radical Party and we from the Serbian Progressive Party, which is to preserve everything that is possible on KIM, all that is realistically possible at the moment. It's called real national policy. If we were to talk about our desires, our dreams, everything that would be nice to happen to our people, believe me, between you and me personally, there's no difference. But there is something called political reality. If you are a serious statesman, then you must consider that political reality. That is why the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the President of the Republic of Serbia, when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija, are running such a policy as water. As far as these other things you've been talking about, regarding public executioners and state aid, obviously we don't agree on that. However, regardless of all this, the SNS is grateful to you because your presence in parliament still shows that you are politically serious, that you are state-of-the-art, that you have a sense of responsibility for the Republic of Serbia and its citizens. Do not do what Dejan Nikolic and Nebojsa Zelenovic are doing at the moment. Now, at this moment, in the European Parliament, the two of them are speaking in the most hopeless way possible about the state of Serbia, that we are the most lagging behind, that we are the most primitive, that there is no freedom, that the rights of the opposition are stifled, etc. I am also saying this because of some of my SNS colleagues who are trying to find the difference between Bosko Obradovic, who is trying to flag Serbia to use as a stick to break the doors of the National Assembly and some of the Democratic Party that are as little as nice, so they are not really for Boško Obradovic, they do not like these fascist methods. (President: Thank you, colleague. I'm finishing up, Mr. Milicevic. They're all the same. They have the same boss. They have the same task, which is to bring down the legal and legitimately elected power in Serbia, to bring down Alexander Vukic, but not in the elections, but in the street and with the help of those who do not think well of Serbia and who do not think of it well. In that sense, you are different from them, and regardless of some things we disagree on, and we probably will never agree, you show one more responsible approach than those who would break the Serbian flag door at the Serbian Parliament and those who speak worst of their country today. Never a serious MP, whether he's from power or opposition, says anything wrong about his country. Only those who are not in parliament today say so, but are present today in the European Parliament and are saying the worst possible things about the Republic of Serbia. In doing so, they were not exposed to any lynching, no persecution, no police officer was seen only in the picture, no pendred on their backs, no one threw tear gas at them, no one threw war poisons at them, and thank God none of them died, as Ranko Panic died in 2008.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66595	Thank you, colleague Martinovic. Right on line, MP Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66596	We warn you in time who exercise authority not to be exactly like them and the mistakes that are obvious, which have arisen from Kosovo's policy, i.e. policies towards Kosovo and the Metohija of this government. We, if our number one priority in the country is to preserve KIM in the Republic of Serbia, need to focus on our traditional allies, two states that are permanent members of the UN Security Council, the Russian Federation and the People's Republic of China, which will not allow Kosovo to join the UN. The outcome of these negotiations that we now have is going towards signing a legally binding agreement, announced by representatives of the Serbian government, the president of Serbia announced, which would allow Kosovo to become a member of the UN. No one argues there are some successes, major successes and the difference between the Democratic Party and the Serbian Progressive Party. No one can dispute that the 17 states have withdrawn recognition of independence, but it will mean nothing to us if we sign a legally binding agreement that will make Kosovo a full member of the UN. We saw this as the outcome of these negotiations both on the EU and the State Department's announcements, but also on Kosovo Albanians. We've also seen this representative of American President Grenelle say about all this and the negotiations, but also about "little Shengen." You said, when you came to power, you would question and annul all Bork's agreements. None of that happened. It's been a year and a half. We have six years of negotiations in Brussels. We're going to be pushed from Kosovo and Metohija. Before the Brussels Agreement, it would not be possible for Marko Djuric to come to northern Mitrovica and be arrested there, as a war trophy, and paraded with Pristina. That before the Brussels Agreement, unfortunately, which we have since 2013, would not be possible. We're against it. We think the best solution is to rely on those who have always been honest with us, who have always been our allies, and not on those who aim at giving up Kosovo as soon as possible, which is the goal of both the EU and the United States and some other Western powers. They don't hide it, of course. And we are negotiating with a mediator who has recognised Kosovo's independence, and the EU has de facto recognised Kosovo's independence, the EU has the EULEX mission to KIM, which aims to build Kosovo institutions. So, the institution of the state of Kosovo. That's what we're warning you about. Serbia's non-EU membership should be a priority and the continuation of negotiations, the opening of chapters or anything else, the Constitution of Serbia and 1244. And we hear less and less that the representatives of our regime, i.e. The regime in Serbia is calling for these acts, and we hear, unfortunately, that they are calling and calling for respect for the Constitution of the Republic of Kosovo.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66597	Thank you, Comrade Seselj. Right on line, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66598	Mr. Seselj, I think it is important that we Serbs be unique when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija. It's much more important than whether a great force would come from the West or from the East to support us at this point or at that moment. Now I'm going to say something that may not be popular, but believe me, as a man and as a Serb, here, I see that you've been wearing these badges for a long time that says that there were no genocide in Srebrenica, yesterday I felt a little bit like that about my heart when I heard Putin's statement that if I didn't accept the law on amnesty in the Ukrainian parliament that a new Srebrenica would happen in the east of Ukraine. One statement that tells you that no one can be a greater Serb than us Serbs, and if we Serbs are incompatible about Kosovo and Metohija, there is no Russia and there is no China and there is no such force of the sky that will help us on this issue. Why am I telling you this? Every great force takes care of its interests. When he visited the Russian Emperor Alexander the First in the 19th century, He was a tall man, and the Russian emperor was a tall man, just like you, like your father, the Russian emperor told him, I tell you this simply what He said to his Montenegrins when he came back. The king of Russia said to him, "You are a tall man, and he says, "You are a tall man, but only God is higher than the king of Russia. When he returned to Montenegro, the Montenegrins asked him, "Well, what does the Russian emperor say, will he help us?" He said those famous words: the king of Russia thinketh of his people, and of us when he cometh. A lesson and a message for us Serbs today. But if we leave history aside, you say now – we should do this to KiM, we should do that to KiM, and you are calling for Resolution 12 44. In that same Resolution 12 44, only we Serbs like to lie to ourselves a little bit and we like to interpret Resolution 12 44 in pieces, not in general. In that Resolution 12 44, which was voted by both Russia and China and which we are holding together, it says that it can return up to 1,000 members of the Yugoslav Army, because there was an SRJ at the time, but only if the commander of KFOR approves it. So it doesn't depend on the return of our army and the police to KIM of the goodwill of Alexander Vukic. The KFOR commander did not approve. He didn't approve it even when the SRS was in power, that single SRS, right, Mircic? When was that, were we in government? Why didn't you ask for it? When were you looking? Milorad Mircic: No one asked? What were you not looking for? Milorad Mircic: He did not ask for Slob. What were you not looking for, a minister in that government? Why didn't you ask as Minister in this government? You didn't ask because you knew you couldn't get Commander KFOR's consent. Milorad, you did not ask because you knew that Resolution 12 44 writes – The Yugoslav Army can return up to 1,000 troops to KIM if it is the board of KFOR commanders. As former KFOR commander Michael Jackson in 1999, he did not approve of the return of 1,000 troops to the Yugoslav Army, so they do not approve today. What are we supposed to do now? Milorad Mircic: When was the request? What law? What law? It says in Resolution 12 44, we cannot return military to Kosovo until it is approved by KFOR commander. There's no law. What do we have as an alternative? If we were to send this little army and police to KIM and war, but not with Albanians, it wouldn't be a problem if we fought the Albanians now, it would be a problem, but we would somehow deal with the Albanians, we would be at war with the NATO Pact. We tried it in 1999. How'd we do? You saw it yourself, and all of Serbia saw it. (President: I thank you. ) So, I end up, Resolution 1244 is Serbia's legal link with Kosovo and Metohija, but in that Resolution 1244, Mr Vukic said to you when the report on Kosovo and Metohija is here in May, there are things that Serbs are not the most favourable to us, but also what they are, better than not having resolutions. That is what we agree on, but that Resolution 1244 is absolutely, from the beginning to the end, in the interest of the Republic of Serbia, not. There are painful things, but there is something that realizes that KIM is legally related to the Republic of Serbia and that is why the Republic of Serbia and Resolution 1244 stick to and respect our friends in the Security Council, Russia and China, who voted in favour of this Resolution. I mean, things aren't as simple as you're trying to introduce them. Otherwise, if they were, Kosovo and Metohija would have saved many before you and before me and before my friend Milorad Mircic and everyone else.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66599	Thank you, colleague Martinovic. Comrade Seselj, I'll let you know, of course, you have the right to the replica. Please and fellow Martinovic that it is not a dispute for two minutes, I will allow you to speak as much as your colleague Martinovic said, it is absolutely not a dispute, although you do not have the remaining time of the parliamentary group, but let it be on my responsibility, so that we do not have double standards and double arches. I do not dispute that the issue you have raised is of great importance and importance, and that it concerns the future of Serbia and the future of each citizen of Serbia, but it is not simply the topic of today's agenda. So I ask you to still try to get back to what is the topic of today's session. Here you go, Comrade Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66600	Neither does the Serbian Radical Party, but of course the Russian Federation has never denied a crime in Srebrenica. It's clear that the crime happened there. We deny the character of this crime and want to fight once and for all against being declared genocide. Of course, when the Russian president spoke of it, he meant it. (Alexander Martinovic: Why didn't he tell Storm, but rather Srebrenica? Why didn't someone else stop the British from bringing the Srebrenica Resolution to the Security Council, but rather those Russians? Why aren't they Americans? Why aren't they French? It was the Russians who stopped it. Russia prevented the Security Council in 2015, which Vukic spoke of in Sochi the other day, so that Serbs would be marked genocide. We should be eternally grateful to them. Why would they force them to have closer ties with us if we wanted to become an EU member and move away from our relationship with Russia. How do we do that? Are we working by not giving something that should have a symbolic, diplomatic status to members of the Russian-Serbian humanitarian centre in Nis, and we gave it to the same NATO pact in Serbia? We gave NATO greater rights to the pact than was foreseen by the Trinity Pact for Third Reich soldiers then. The NATO Pact today has a more privileged position than was foreseen for the Third Reich soldiers of the Trinity Pact. Those who are at the Russian-Serbian humanitarian centre in Nis, who participated in the rescue of our citizens in floods and fires and many other situations, do not even have that symbolic diplomatic status. That should be a sign of respect. We wouldn't get anything from that. We advocated that another such centre be established in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, 30,000 signatures were collected for it, and then we saw some variations by the province's government that there would be some regional centre with Croatia or I don't know who else, and the justification was official that there was no need for that centre. It may not allow KFOR to return to 1,000 soldiers and police officers in Kosovo, but at least we can ask, to ask, to raise the issue often, to talk about it. If it's not our decision, all we have to do is show our intention. That should be, then, the paragraph in the Resolution, we're asking for that to happen. We need to negotiate it, to mention it, and we don't know in advance that they won't approve it. Let's stand for it, so maybe somebody else will approve. It is dangerous to separate Serbia from Russia, because Russia is our most sincere ally on the international agenda and protected us in 2015 from the mark of genocide, but for 11 years it has defended our territorial integrity and sovereignty by not allowing the membership of the Republic of Kosovo to the UN. If it wasn't for Russia, that question would have been closed long ago. That's what Alexander Vukic spoke of a few days ago in Sochi. It should be, it's a policy of the SRS, our main foreign policy orientation, to be with our allies and with them to build our future, not with those who bombed us, and today they're asking us to give up parts of the territory, which have humiliated us in every way and those who robbed us, after all. It can't be the ones who saved us and the ones who bombed us the same way.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66601	Thank you, Comrade Seselj. The People's MP Aleksandar Martinovic has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66602	I agree, Mr. Seselj, with almost everything you've said. I'm not questioning at all that Russia is, in a political sense, our greatest ally. No one's questioning that. No warning, we need to communicate, we need to talk. Yesterday, they asked Alexander Vukic in Greece for that statement. So yesterday, they asked Alexander Vukic for what Putin said that if the Ukrainian parliament did not accept the amnesty law, there was a danger that what happened in Srebrenica would happen in Donbas. I am now telling you, as an MP, as a man, as a Serb, I would prefer it if Putin had told you that the Storm would happen, but – there will be Srebrenica. Let me have the right to express my opinion. Let me say that I didn't feel the most comfortable when I heard from the Russian president's mouth to mention Srebrenica as an example of a crime, no matter how he qualified himself, as a genocide or as a war crime, without, say, remembering to mention Storm, Flash, Kravica, Bratunac, etc., but not to get into it. The man said what he said, his right, Russia is a big country. What are we? The suburbs of Moscow versus all Russia. It's as if we're Serbs who will determine what the Russians, Americans, Chinese or any other great force will do. We're small. Milorad Mircic: So you have a book. I've got the book, Milorad, I've got it all figured out. What can a state with seven million inhabitants of a country that has over 200 affect its foreign policy? But again, regardless of what you, in certain matters, are politically different, it is scandalous what he said yesterday, visiting on N1 television, Vuk Jeremic, former foreign minister, former UN General Assembly chairman. He literally said – Alexander Vukic will only be difficult to talk to Pristina now, because he will no longer have Hasim Thaci for the interviewer, but Albin Kurti, and this Albin Kurti, says Vuk Jeremic literally, now I quote - cannot argue that he is an intellectual, patriot and stable man. So, for Vuk Jeremic, for Dragan Gilas, for Bosko Obradovic, that great Serb, Russian, Orthodox, ask God what is not, Aljbin Kurti is an intellectual, patriot, I don't know how his patriotism is expressed, I guess by wanting to create a great Albania and says – a stable man. If only he wanted to be honest to the end, he should have said – that's the same Albin Kurti we let out of the Nis prison when we took power in 2000. Why am I saying this? If these, don't God, somehow get the authorities without a choice, so you can imagine what would happen to both us and you and Belgrade and Nis and Kragujevac and Kosovo Mitrovica to have a man come to power who says – Albin Kurti is an intellectual, patriot and stable man, he was not left of Serbia, from Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija or stone on stone. In that sense, the tectonic difference between you sitting here in the National Assembly, with which we disagree on some issues, and those who allegedly boycott the National Assembly, but therefore do not boycott the European Parliament when it comes to spit in Serbia, the Serbian people, the Serbian government and the Serbian institutions, and especially the tectonic difference between you and Vuk Jeremic, for whom Aljbin Kurti is an intellectual, patriot and stable man. Well done.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66603	Thank you, colleague Martinovic. Comrade Seselj, do you want a replica? You had a dialogue with Mr. Martinovic and you were reported. I don't pay attention to the discarding, I follow what Mr. Martinovic says and I follow the dialogue that leads with you. Do you want a replica after you have been logged in? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66604	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. What we were talking about is the difference that must be made in terms of Serbia and the Russian Federation's relations and the difference between Serbia and the US and the EU. It can't be the same. Because we weren't bombed by the Russians, and they're not taking our territory from the Russians, and they're not telling the Russians that we're genocide, they're all doing it by these others, and it's not since yesterday, it's been like that for 30 years. We are flocking to the EU today, as if we do not know what is waiting for us on that road, and we are awaiting full recognition of Kosovo's independence. That's the condition of all conditions. Is it worth our potential membership of Kosovo and Metohija? I don't think so. What is the European perspective for the Western Balkans now, does it exist? I don't think there is, especially given what McCron said in the European Parliament, about the possibility of EU enlargement. So it doesn't exist right now. Now would be the time to make a sober decision in our national interest to focus on the Russian Federation as soon as possible, towards Serbia's membership in the Euro-Asian Economic Union, towards Serbia's membership in the ODKB. We heard from the president of the Republic that S-400 is a system that Serbia cannot afford. Just because of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and the application of its unilateral, we lose money at an annual level of approximately what one S-400 is worth. In cooperation and integration with the Russian Federation, we achieve economic security, realize energy security, and, most importantly, realise our military security, i.e. Security from any kind of aggression in the future. This is what we stand for and it is currently the only way for Serbia to preserve its national interests when it comes to the territorial integrity and sovereignty of our country and, of course, the position of the Serb community living today in Kosovo and Metohija.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66605	Thank you, Comrade Seselj. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go, colleague Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66606	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament have mostly said what they thought about the completion of the Citizens' Protector's institutions. Of course, to give in one sentence my personal position, which is that the Protector himself, the one who is before us, is doing his job in accordance with the law and I think he's doing them very well. However, what I am interested in, how can the Protector of Citizens protect us, citizens of the Republic of Serbia from false news or fiction, individual representatives of the SZS, who in their constructed untruths are intruding into our country's economic and security foundations? This is very important, Mr. Protector, because they, from time to time, bring up lies via their tabloids, better say Mudoids, especially through the N1 CIA, any news that deeply penetrates pathology, and these false news are about the President of the State, Aleksandr Vukic, his family, Mr. Nebojsa Stefanovic, the Minister of Interior and his family and other fellow Members, as well as the People's MPs, Dr. Martinović and Dr. Orlic and other respected MPs. Just for a little while, Mr. Protector, the latest news, which is, I'm going to give you an example of Marinika Tepic, in a people called "the pigeon flyover", because she lies in bed in one political party in the evening, and wakes up in the morning in another political party, or as the latest calls her "electric rabbit" Dragan Gilas. Yesterday, in one tabloid, "blatoid", which is "Today", she lied, for who knows which time, about the president of the state and his associates, and I will quote, quote -- the raw truth is that everything I said in the past month and a half, pointing to the connection between Slobodan Tesic, the arms dealer and the president of the state, Aleksandr Vukic. It offers the US note, which was handed over to Foreign Minister Ivica Dacic during October. It's a finished quote. It's lies, fictions, plantings of the lowest kind. That is why, Mr. Commissioner, the honourable Members of the People who listen, and who earn, may it be an honor for you, to quote our Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which, I quote, is the fact that the United States has never sent a note to you, nor has it given to Minister Dacic and to anyone else at the Foreign Ministry, about Slobodan Tesic. It's a finished quote. So, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, Marinika Tepic, called "the pigeon flyer", lied for a month and a half each day at press conferences and individual tabloids. Had there been little honor, civil, parliamentary and a little education, she would have come as a national MP to this high house, apologized to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the president of the Republic of Serbia and his family, the interior minister, Mr Nebojsa Stefanovic and his family and the honourable MPs, in this high house. Allow me, Your Honor, to say two sentences, and her news, to be fabricated in the services of the state of security of one, the overseas country and the state and the security service of some neighbouring states, as was the case with Račka, of which I spoke extensively yesterday, in this high house. The next question of mine is to you, and also to the security services, is there any drug-cooperation between Bosko Obradovic, his godfather Mladen Novakovic, called Tocil, who was arrested with 77 kilos of heroin, so that, respected citizens and honourable MPs, protect our children and the future of our children to be equal, to raise and educate in a healthy environment? Secondly, what does Dragan Gilas or you "jilas" have to do with drugs because he has two last names, one for the EU, and the other for Serbia, with the co-operation of his brother-in-law, who was arrested with two kilos of cocaine, to protect our children and make them equal with children, who are raised and educated in healthy environments? And third, what kind of drug connection does Bosko Obradovic and Dragan Djilas and the mafia have to do with them? Let's move on, honourable MPs, there is Mr. Martinovic very well noted what this Vuk Jeremic said last night, he said he was not a member, last night, or leader of an international group of thieves and frauds, but he is a member of the international group of thieves and frauds there is no dilemma. Let me ask him, him and his associate last night, the director of the N1 CIA, Mr. Djosic, and let me tell you, because of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that Vuk Jeremic is the director of the Centre for International Co-operation and Sustainable Development. From where he got $200,000, on behalf of that center, and whether it's true, let him go out on that N1 CIA TV and say if he got $200,000 from Mongolia and on behalf of what. Here, I call him to say, "Let him come, whether he is or not." He will not explain to Serbia's citizens what service he has received from abroad. Let me just say, in the period from 2013 to 2017, he got as much as $7.9 million. But let him tell the public whether it's true that it's $4.5 million, that he's been paid by phantom energy companies spoken of here by respected MPs several times and my smallness, which are operating in Shanghai and Hong Kong, where his close associates operated, and last night they won't mention them, who were arrested in the United States for corruption by Patrick Ho and Sheikh Tidian Gadio. Tell the citizens of Serbia whether it is true or not? Is it true he said he got $120,000 from Qatar in Germany and $200,000 in Berlin? Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, it is true that Mr. Martinovc is preparing them, here I would dare say the script as it is in 2000 and there is no dilemma. One of their perjanicas, Janko Veselinovic, otherwise known as "stantocrats", said in 11/09/2019, quote – after boycott, ask for new elections, if not, the turn of the military and police on the side of us protesters and opponents of the regime, finished the quote. Dear citizens, look what's coming for you. And, to conclude, that it's really true that they're doing the same thing they did in 2000, that's what Diane Johnston, who I quoted yesterday, and again because of the citizens of Serbia, I'm going to quote now. I quote, what she said about October 5th, it's coming to us in the future, whether it works, it's a special story now, but I don't think that movie's going to look at it anymore. I quote - on the wings of the people's celebration, due to the fall of Slobodan Milosevic, who bordered with drunkenness, Serbia in the governmental jag brought together the stampede of unprofessional gramistical and arrogant people, conceited leaders of fictitious parties, self-proclaimed experts, half-worlds of all calibers and profiles that promoted themselves to revolutionary winners, and the state and all in the state for their hostages. Diana Johnston, American. That it is true, Mr. Martinovic, that he praises Albin Kurti, but I will remind the citizens that on July 27th 2010, he is one of the biggest dates for the so-called independent state of Kosovo. Why? Because that day, Pristina received a legal argument to push its independence to the end. That is why Pristina celebrates Vuk Jeremic and Vuk Jeremic Albin Kurti, because Albanian leadership considers him the creator of the most important paper in the hands of independent Kosovo. Because of the time I took from my colleagues, at the end of this sentence. Dear People's MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic is a great Serbian protagonist, rarely seen in these areas, a great patriot, a great reformer and a great statesman. He will never be forgiven by those of the Alliance for Serbia. And what they're preparing, that they won't go to the election, that's their choice. Those in the constituency have very little. Well, the opposition isn't them. They are one small part of the opposition, one part of the opposition is sitting in this high house, one part of the opposition is preparing for the elections, will or won't, and the movie will no longer watch it as it was seen in the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66607	Thank you, colleague Atlagic. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go, colleague Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66608	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, in today's debate, we all listened. Mr Pasalic, you were not in the course of the afternoon session because of the commitments you had previously made, but we heard here while you were here and before that the Guardian of Citizens was a constitutional category but which does not have to exist in the Republic of Serbia, in its legal system. I really call on my distinguished colleagues not to talk nonsense when they say something like that. The constitution is explicit, in that part, that the Protector is a state body and that its powers, other than those provided for in the Constitution, are regulated by a special law. When someone says that it is not the obligation of the Republic of Serbia to have a Protector of citizens, it is the same as when they say that citizens of the Republic of Serbia do not have to receive pensions and if they are guaranteed by the Constitution, because you cannot stick to the Constitution a little bit, you do not stick to it. But I would leave that to their political beliefs and their legal capacity, that's what even some of the lawyers said, their legal ability to judge it, but God forbid they come to power, because with such interpretation of the law and the Constitution, the Republic of Serbia would go very badly. It's not a piece of the Constitution, it's being conducted or not. It has even been discussed that the Guardian of Citizens should also be involved in the work of the Constitutional Court, which is not in your jurisdiction, I suppose, for political reasons, because perhaps the Protector of Citizens will be the one to correct the Constitutional Court's decisions, because, as the Constitutional Court said, it is regimeal. It even goes to the fact that we do not need to respect the decisions of the Constitutional Court, although these decisions under the Constitutional Court Act are final, executive and general binding and that everyone is obliged to adhere to them, all state bodies, political parties, union organisations, work organisations and not to list everything, all public authorities. But again those decisions of the Constitutional Court that correspond, they are in accordance with the Constitution, and those that do not respond, the Constitutional Court is in order. I've just listed this as an introduction. A colleague touched this today, which is that the reputation of the Guardian of Citizens has been violated because of the discussion of the MPs of the people regarding your predecessor. I can't argue that the reputation of the U.S. Civil Protection Institution is really broken, but we need to change some things and tell the truth why it is. Your predecessor, Sasa Jankovic, who was elected by the National Assembly in a similar composition several years ago, began to violate the reputation of the institution he led when he began to interfere in politics. At that time, the reputation of the Civil Protection Institution as a state body began to collapse. He waited for a certain political moment, waited for one particular accident, and accidents happen, to stand out as a freedom fighter. We will later analyse what he means by "freedom" means, to attack the National Assembly, courts, prosecutors and government, about one accident. Sasa Jankovic asked the ministry to provide him with certain information that someone else had previously requested. He asked for a state prosecutor, the same organ elected by the National Assembly, and he said, "No! We want as prosecutors, as a state body, independent and independent to investigate the causes of that accident that happened. "According to the Code of Criminal Procedure, if the prosecutor starts conducting investigations, and according to the Constitution, he is the only one in charge of conducting investigations, the Civil Protection Institution has nothing to ask from that moment on. It is within the jurisdiction of the prosecution and later, if the prosecution assesses in the jurisdiction of the judicial authorities. But Sasa Jankovic used it to start his political career, so here in the National Assembly, only in the small hall, at the session of the Security Control Committee, he attacked and insulted even the MPs, so that we would eventually try to explain to him - man, don't do it! You are here in the National Assembly the means of the National Assembly, to perform its supervisory role over the authorities in special parts in accordance with the law, and this refers to administrative and other procedures carried out by the authorities of the administration, not prosecutors, not judges and other independent authorities, and to inform the National Assembly of this, not to question the MPs within your work. This was the beginning of an election campaign because later your predecessor did not hide his political ambitions to become president of the Republic of Serbia and after the presidential elections were held, because in the first round he won the current President Aleksandar Vukic, and then the prime minister asked him to be the prime minister of the new government in 2017. That's why all this work, because he is very little remembered as a politician of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia because it was short and unsuccessful, but for a long time he was a failed and corrupt Protector of the citizens, so they remember him as the Protector of the Citizens because of everything he did, he violated the reputation your institution has. Later, his political career went in the direction of further policy-making, and he founded some Free Citizens' Movement. Is this part where the Citizens' Protector should be involved, because I really don't know what the purpose of this Free Citizens' Movement is and who they're going to free the citizens of the Republic of Serbia from or who they're going to free from at all? I ask the question is it possible to release Mark Bastic for smuggling foreign exchanges into the country, or is he going to free Dragan Gilas, who is also the movement of free citizens whose work even Dragan Gilas participated in the election of the President of the Republic of Serbia and in the election campaign of the City of Belgrade, to free him from moral and criminal responsibilities for everything he did while he was running Belgrade and rule the Republic of Serbia through his own halls? Will he also release Bosko Obradovic's godfather, who has been arrested for drug trafficking? Will he also release his brother-in-law, Dragan Gilas, who was also arrested for drug trafficking? See what kind of liberators we have? They're great patriots. They worry that those who have reached for drugs, not realizing what they are getting into, have the means that the law prohibits and is harmful and dangerous in sufficient quantities. Now, they want to take Alexander Vukic and the SNS out of power, or maybe they should protect those cops who really did their job properly and responsible for the serious crimes brought to justice. I think the policy implemented by the former regime with one clear goal is that it bickers the citizens of Serbia under the slogan of the Free Citizens' Movement, disputing them, bringing them into conflict with both the police and their political inexperiences, is hardly that we can look at it peacefully, and I expect you to at least at some point come forward when it comes to police officers who have been doing their job right. They don't do politics. They don't even have any great salaries. I'm not saying they're big, we wish we could pay them more, but they're doing a job that's extremely hard and extremely dangerous, so the street thugs would attack them because their friends and family members arrested for drug trafficking. There's no politics here. The drugs are either in the car or in the house or in the pocket... (Marian Risticevic: Or is it in him.) )......................................................................................................... Or maybe it's been consummated. I don't want to get into it, but there's no politics here. That's what happened. That's what was seen and explored. I don't see how these cops can be blamed for the godfather of Boška Obradovica and the brother-in-law of Dragan Gilas smuggling drugs, so they're also being attacked by Bosko Obradovic and Dragan Djilas? Also, what happened here recently when one, I said, I can never call him a colleague, one of my colleagues even talked here that he's crazy, he's not as crazy as he's pretending. I mean Bosko Obradovica. He's not as crazy as he's being made, and he's pretending to be more crazy than he is to avoid criminal responsibility for all this, and I hope that once the prosecution is going to start criminal proceedings for everything that's been going on in front of the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and when journalists have been beaten up and when the women's members of RIK turned their hands when they attacked the president of the National Assembly. I know it's not in your jurisdiction. Even a fellow Martinovic once shot at with certain equipment the National Assembly has. Just so we know what they are and what kind of power they're offering us. In addition, just because they have exercised power and violated the reputation of the institution that you are now leading, you have a more difficult and serious task to restore the citizens' trust and the reputation of that institution to the level that is needed, above all, for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The president of the Republic of Serbia can't wash everything out. Neither can the Prime Minister. Neither ministers nor ministerial assistants nor state secretaries. You are one of the means for the National Assembly to perform its supervisory role, and for citizens to have the rights that we give them to the laws that we bring here, those same rights do come true. If someone says that the Citizens' Protector of the Republic of Serbia is not needed, thinks either that the government is very good or that he has no idea about the right or he doesn't know what kind of people who exercise power in terms of official and other rights and substitutes, which are essentially not meant to belong to political parties, but to do their job for which they receive their wages. That's why it's your job to get your reputation back a lot harder. I hope that you will succeed despite all these problems that have been made to you since you've been on that post with your deputies we're now choosing.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66609	Thank you, colleague Arsic. The word has the People's MP Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66610	The Honorable Chairman, Mr Pasalic, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the question of the rights and freedoms that we are talking about today and the struggle to improve these rights and freedoms in one society are in fact a driving force for the development of modern society. Today, many abuses in general are the term "right and freedom" in one society, and they are the subject of many abuses when it comes to many reports on countries, countries that should become part of certain continents, such as the EU or some international institutions. The question of rights and freedom cannot always be seen especially from a political moment, a political situation, a relationship between states. What is important to say is that the freedoms we observe were, in addition to those personal freedoms of every citizen in Serbia and the issue of economic freedoms, political freedoms, and many scientists were concerned with whether these freedoms could be seen separately or conditioned to each other, and it is obvious that economic freedoms are very often conditioned by political freedoms. This was best seen with the development of new economic models of state functioning and the conclusion of these alliances and when it became the EU and when we have the development and conclusion of alliances such as the Euro-Asian continent. After all, today, in 2019, the situation in both the economy and politics is not the same as in 2000 and 2012, but in Serbia it must be defined that the level of human freedom is much higher today than in 2012. Yesterday was a meeting to mark the International Day of Human Rights, a conference titled "You're Right", in Belgrade, organised by the Human Rights Office, which otherwise spoke of Serbia having achieved a really great success in fighting discrimination and pushing for tolerance. What's good is that international representatives, the UN's chief co-ordinator in Serbia, the head of the EU delegation, the head of the Council of Europe Mission and the head of the OSCE delegation, said Serbia has achieved an enviable level, i.e. that it has made progress in this area. It represents the highest possible commendation of these organizations that we can get at the moment. Why is that? You, as an institution, are truly independent. You are in charge of the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and you should protect the rights and promote what you are defined as an institution - respect for freedom and when it comes to the rights of national minorities, and when it comes to the rights of children and persons with disabilities and persons deprived of freedom, but also gender equality. So it's your goal, too, to even protect the citizens, is to monitor the achievement of freedom and rights, but also the equality of all to simply come to these rights in a certain way. So, all the legal means allowed by the Constitution and by the law. When we talk about rights, economic rights in society, they mean property rights, the right to work, and the rights arising from working relationships and the part relating to social security, protection, child rights, as well as the rights of those unable to care for them. When we talk about political rights, political rights involve the right to vote, then the right to association, the right to the press and the media that we talk about very much. Then, freedom of speech, as well as the right to criticism and the different visions relating to citizens' proposals. If you compare the year 2012 and today 2019 you will see that in 2012, if we talk about economic property rights, otherwise both state and private were not enrolled enough in the cadastre. That on public property, i.e. state property, some who were then in charge of the state were borrowing, borrowing loans and simply making public debt of this state, hiding them simply on these credit lines and using state property, so that Serbian citizens had no idea that they were simply usurped. On the other hand, when you look at that it was an unwritten public property and it was unprotected in that sense, then you come to the fact that since 2012, even the part relating to private property has been threatened by the fact that the state has provided unfavourable loans, such as loans in Switzerland, whose consequences have been unimaginable for many families. After all, they had to reflect the cost of all Serbian citizens, because we had laws here that we tried to help these people keep that part of the property on which they paid huge interest through their wars. And this budgeting of Serbia, ultimately, went somewhere across Serbia's citizens and over all of our rights because there was a minority because of the state's error, which in an inadequate way simply opened up the possibility of borrowing individuals in a completely illegal and illegal way, because the consequences of such a policy led to the year 2012 being a year that had to show which way Serbia would continue to go. Either it falls into the sun and into the ambis and economically and politically, or it will start some new way to solve the accumulated problems, which the citizens of Serbia have well recognised when it comes to voting rights, but at the time you did not have arranged voter lists. At the time, we didn't even know how many voters we had, so the SNS went from door to door of every citizen, explaining that it was a great responsibility for all of us to go to the elections and really support SNS, Aleksandr Vukic, and then Mr Tomislav Nikolic, who led this list, to show that there are people who are extremely responsible in politics and statehood and who will indeed solve this issue with all their strengths, because there are no other resolutions. We didn't have any other way than to go along with really common forces to solve many issues. When we talk about economic freedoms at the time of 2012, then I should remind you that there were 338 companies, social enterprises that hired over 100,000 people in restructured companies, who received 10,000 dinars from the state budget, who did not work, who were waiting for someone better tomorrow. Major economic experts who today support Mr. Gilas's policy said at the time that it was necessary to close "The Iron", fire 5,000 people, thus resolving the 100m-euro issue annually, and thus it was necessary to resolve the issue and all those companies that were working at the time, which simply did not contribute, but simply spent the state money on Serbian citizens. Economic policy at the time and economic freedoms showed that half a million people were jobless, that economic growth was negative, that was 3.1%, that the average salary was 320 euros, that the minimum personal income was 17,700 dinars, and that the debts of all these loans alone amounted to 1.4 billion euros per year. So, we had such a situation in 2012 that we couldn't talk about even economic freedoms, and even less about political ones, so when we talk about freedom of the media at the time, the SNS didn't have a television on which she could talk about her programs every day and it was a question at all whether any television, even if you pay for the video, would broadcast those videos. Therefore, political freedoms through electoral law, through the right of association, through freedom of the media, through the part relating to the critical opinion that it was heard in public, did not exist at that time. Today, in 2019, we are talking about economic freedoms exactly the way it is for the fourth time, meaning surplus in the budget, growth in economic growth of 4.4%, average salary of over 500 euros and minimum personal income of 30,000 dinars in the Republic of Serbia, but no more firms in restructuring, no more social enterprises. "The Iron" is owned by a Chinese partner, RTB "Bor" also. We're working with both east and west. We are on our way to European integration. Yesterday, Chapter 4 which speaks of freedom of movement and capital, which is actually one support for Serbia on the European path, was opened as a recognition for the results it carried out through economic reforms and fiscal consolidation. It's usually chapter 6 that's open to the area of finance. There are two left to open. Therefore, not only Europeans, but also from the east and from the west of all countries and these large countries, as well as these small states, are very responsible for the economy of this country. By the way, political freedoms are much higher if they are economic freedoms. So, that's why we're talking about the electoral law that's talking about it, yesterday we had a chance to hear how high we've reached in general when it comes to voting rights and all of the activities of the electoral lists in question, the electronic voting list, the digitisation process fully implemented. So the part about the RIK that's on-line, you can watch it, always at any time. The very education of personnel to work with election committees is completely direct. So, everything is done in a transparent way under the watchful eye of Serbian citizens, not behind the scenes, as it was in 2012. When we talk about media freedoms, we have media recasting their programmes from abroad here, which are extremely critical of this government. When we talk about magazines on a daily or monthly basis, you can see that this is possible in Serbia, and in other countries it is not, that it simply targets the president of the country because it has the support of Serbian citizens over 50%. Now we come to talk about political freedom of speech, which is on social networks. In the worst possible way, they express their hatred and violence against women in politics. So he's according to the president of the Serbian government, according to the president of parliament. We have a flagrant violation of all the laws that should protect the citizens and I think it's a very difficult job for you, Mr. Pasalic, because your predecessor, you just heard from my colleague Arsic, and everything he's done and what he's done in public in one extremely unrequited way, trying to politically introduce one way in which the state will criticise all the officials who run this country, you are not allowed to do so. You're not allowed not because of the law, but because you're doing your job in a professional way. You should be dealing with the rights of the citizens that you have been given by law, that is, all those citizens who have failed to exercise their rights in some other way. This is why you are actually doing your job, not doing a job for which those who criticise Serbia and the state in all international institutions today do not consider you to be some leader who should protect the rights of all Serbian citizens, but considers you to be one of the heads of institutions, who are in charge of the work of the Serbian Parliament, but we all do this job together. I will tell you that, for example, in the Council of Europe, whose head of delegation, on every monitoring committee, not only Serbia, but many Western Balkan states also observe the rule of law through four areas. These are: the judiciary, it's a fight against corruption, it's a right of minorities, and that's the part that applies to the right of gender equality, that is, they put it under human rights. But the part that matters to them is the most important part about the media. Now, when you say that you have adopted a media strategy as a state, you are working on it and that you have adopted a set of laws that is under the EU's patronage, where the state has come out of ownership when it comes to media, they say - no, no, that's not enough. When you say -- there are media re-emitting from other countries, which simply have a critical attitude towards the state. They say -- no, no, it's not enough, you know, there are journalists who are attacking, and then there are some examples that have already been processed, but their reports will never get out that part where they're actually being processed, that the state is really seriously dealing with it. When you say that the state of Serbia's justice is the practical state that we inherited, which, with the help of the Venice Commission, we change together through laws and through many changes, they say - no, no, so it's not enough. We need constitutional changes that only need courts to allow judges to be elected, so the Assembly doesn't ask questions. So it's never enough. It is not enough when it comes to the fight against corruption, because if you respect all GRECO recommendations, as we have respected, changed laws and sublaws, they say -- no, no, again you have the constitutional obligation to change the constitution and that the Kosovo issue, now that the part that we have positively assessed, they say -- no, we are now introducing the Kosovo issue, the situation in Kosovo. They say not in Kosovo and Metohija, but in Kosovo. They are interested in the human rights of the Albanian side. They're not interested in the human rights of the Serbian side. When we talk about human rights in Serbia being much higher than in 2012, then I think that your task and your associates, which we are going to support in our heart because you really need a lot of people, professional people who need to work on all fronts, to promote the policy of human rights and freedoms that are being developed in Serbia in line with the development of economic freedoms, which Serbia, led by Alexander Vukic, recognized in 2012 and therefore went this way to develop. Is that enough? Of course not. We will always do much more to reach society as a much higher degree. And do we have problems with those who don't understand what democracy is, or what human freedom is, or what economic freedom is, because they allow themselves to steal from the Serbian citizens' budget and to take their companies rich in 619m euros, and to take money from which white-world frauds to go to the presidential elections here, that the question of how they used eightm euros for a presidential campaign, such as Vuk Jeremic, is just 5.56% of the vote. So today, we have a really wide range of problems that we need to talk about in this society and that we're hearing a lot stronger, but that you, along with your associates in society, really these things that we're talking about today, where we've made progress, you're much stronger in public and on these very media where we have the greatest criticism. Because, simply, I think we're under-represented by the institutions that we choose here, because you're called some party personnel, and obviously you're not, but we're asking you to be louder in public on many of these issues. So in the voting day like all SNS MPs and the ruling coalition, we will support the proposals that we have here for your co-workers, in the hope that, indeed, in the fight for the truth, we will achieve really high levels of human freedom, which will also be included in the reports of all international organisations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66611	Thank you. Ljiljana Malusic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66612	Thank you. Dear Mr Pasalic and his associates, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, today we are talking about a motion for a decision to elect a Deputy Protector of the Citizens. You're legally entitled to four deputies. But here, you've defined yourself in three. Their biographies are really impressive, excellent lawyers, and I see that when they become your deputies, you'll have education, so they'll be sensitized to certain areas and that's very good. I'd go back to the history of how it was and when this independent state institution came into existence. In 2007, the first Citizens' Protector, Sasa Jankovic, famous Sasa Jankovic, was famous for the bad things he did. It's supposed to be a really independent state body, and it was dependent in its time. Let's just remember what he was doing. In his first term, he was a relatively normal man, and in the second, he showed his true face. What was he doing? First of all, he made projects and charged for it. Second, he was buying cars. He bought himself a car, bought a woman a car. He wasn't doing his job. By 12 o'clock he'll be where he belongs, and that's in Deligradska No. 16, and of 12 Ada Gigants, then a nice man there all the time, after working time, a political option. First, it was "Let's not strangle Belgrade", and then it was these ducks, and then it founded a "free citizens' association", and then it wanted to run for president. A man full of ambition, amazing. Instead of doing his job, he worked, lobbyed for himself, and with his own party, one, the other, and the third. Fortunately, he's no longer with us. He didn't plead guilty, I guess someone's gonna deal with him sometime. This is what I had to say, because the reputation of the Guardian of the Citizens has been violated, and you're here to fix it. You had a good report. I'm going to consider some parts of your report, very briefly, not because it's not on the agenda, but I'm going to look into it. I ask you to be diametrically opposed to this gentleman I mentioned, who probably has a lot of criminal charges. We'll talk about him in other places. And you, indeed, work honestly and honestly. Here, for two years you've been in office, I haven't heard anything ugly about you, and I'm sure you'll continue. I said that the state independent authority or the Citizens' Protector was founded in 2007, and indeed there were very few employees, in 2009, already 57 people, at the beginning of 38. Here, we as the National Assembly in 2015, by giving our consent to the new Internal Regulation and the systematization of jobs, have allowed the professional service to continue to carry out its tasks legally and in good time. You should. Why? Last year, you received only 1,900 citizens, with 9,000 applications. It means that it's a really big job and every year it's more and more. There's a lot of people who are unhappy and need help. I'm sure you'll keep doing that. For those of you who don't know, we've been stopped by people to ask, because, I say, the honor has been violated and this independent state body, thanks to this man, Mr. Sasha Jankovic, you're in Deligradska 16 and anyone who has a problem, and as far as you're concerned, can come to you and that problem, I hope, solve it. You're divided into different areas. Among other things, there is protection and promotion of the rights of children, protection and improvement of gender equality, protection and improvement of social and cultural rights, protection and improvement of the rights of persons with disabilities and old persons, I read that people would know who to turn to and what to address, protect and improve the rights to a healthy environment, protect and improve the rights of members of national minorities, protect and improve the rights of persons deprived of freedoms, protect and improve civil political rights, since 2015 there have been migrants, and indeed, for now, I have no objection to your work. What I would point out is that in the exercise of the control function it is important to rely on independent state bodies, to follow their findings and recommendations that point to the areas in which we should react, through legislative changes or through enhanced control of the application of the law. The Republic of Serbia has a well-organised regulatory framework for the protection of human rights. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia has dedicated its entire second chapter to human and minority rights and freedoms, through 64 of its members. The Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination, the Law on Gender Equality, the Law on the Prevention of Family Violence, the Law on the Protection of the Right to Judgement within a reasonable period, the Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities, the Law on National Councils of National Minorities and a number of other laws ensuring the implementation of ratified international conventions in the fields of human rights and freedoms. Speaking of migrants, during 2018, you said the inflow of migrants was reduced, and that is true, in Serbia and at the same time extending their retention periods. Migrants are not deprived of freedom during their stay in Serbia, but are allowed to stay in dedicated open-type institutions. According to the interior ministry, the total number of registered migrants in January-December 2018 was 8.031, of which 593 were women. I would say that Serbia has shown a high degree of empathy since 2015, in 2016, towards those people who had to flee from their own country. Serbia has made a lot of efforts to meet all standards on the protection of migrants. Since the beginning of the migration crisis, the government of the Republic of Serbia has chosen a proactive approach to ensure adequate protection and assistance for those in need. There have been huge efforts to provide adequate assistance for migrants during their stay in Serbia, adequate reception, temporary accommodation, health care, food and medicine assistance, as well as all information on asylum procedures. The National Assembly was actively involved in all the measures taken at government level. It was these joint efforts that allowed us to deal successfully with this problem, making sure that all participants in this global crisis are provided with full respect for their human rights. The National Assembly and its working bodies had a number of activities, including committee meetings in those local environments that were most exposed to problems caused by the migrant crisis, we visited several reception centres, we were in constant contact with the Commissioner for Refugees and Migration. There's a lot more to be said, but there's still a speaker behind me, so I'm going to stay here, and I wish you every happiness and restore the reputation of this independent state institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66613	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Milan Ljubic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66614	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, distinguished civil defenders, respected MPs, human rights are a language of basic human needs, so that their respect and protection affect the everyday lives of citizens, especially members of vulnerable groups. The protection of citizens is an independent and independent state body, tasked with protecting and promoting respect for freedom and rights. He's independent and independent at work. Particular attention is paid to the protection of the rights of members of national minorities, the rights of children, the rights of persons with disabilities, the rights of persons deprived of liberty, gender equality. The Law on the Protection of Citizens provides that the Protector of Citizens has deputies to assist him in carrying out the tasks set out in this law. The Deputy Protector of the Citizens shall carry out the tasks of the Protector of the Citizens on the basis of the delegated powers. It also acts on cases, controls the work of the Authority, but also initiates measures regarding the rights of the child, the rights of persons with disabilities, the rights of members of national minorities, the rights of persons deprived of liberty. When it comes to members of national minorities, we have an even greater standard than some countries in the environment. As far as child rights are concerned, the right to protect against all forms of violence represents the fundamental right of the child. The objectives of the strategy are for all children in Serbia to grow up in a safe and stimulating environment, and these measures are taken daily. The Protector institution acts on the subjects of citizens, provides professional and advisory legal assistance to citizens. The point is to remove irregularities. This creates conditions for citizens to exercise their rights more easily and faster. The proposed candidates for Deputy Protectors shall meet all criteria. In voting day, we will support these proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66615	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Dubravka Filipovski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66616	Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, dear Mr Pasalic, in my opinion, you have taken two important steps as Protector of Citizens, which were crucial to restoring citizens' trust in the institution of the Protector of Citizens. The first step was to depolitise institutions, the second was the Open Door campaign, which gave good results and within which you and your associates received a large number of citizens and in direct contact with them and the conversation saw what problems they were facing. You've also delivered three proposals to the Deputy Protector of the Citizens. Their résumés are good, the procedure has been respected, and we should choose Deputy Protector of Citizens in the voting day, and I find this very important for raising the capacity of this institution. Also, we have been discussing your Report in the resolution committees, as well as in the plenary, and on the basis of this report, you have provided information that the number of citizens who address the Citizens' Protector is growing and that their property and social issues are the main issues, in fact, the problems they are facing. I would also agree with your finding that we need an amendment and a supplement or even a new Law on the Protector of Citizens, which had many limitations and which we haven't changed in the last 10 years. In the coming period, I expect further capacity-lifting of the citizens' institution, and I particularly find it very important that the Office of the Protector of Citizens works much more to improve co-ordination with local ombudsmans. I know it's not an easy job, but it's at the level of your jurisdiction. I would agree with colleagues who said that in order to protect the rights of the child, you should react, because of Bosko Obradovic's godfather, who was arrested for working with drugs, as well as the brother-in-law Dragan Gilas, who is already serving the sentence. You have also reacted to the World Day of Freedom of the Media, and on that occasion you pointed out that freedom of the media is the foundation of democracy and the foundation of strong institutions and that democratic society is unimaginable without freedom of the media. I agree fully with you in that finding, but also take care of when one of the media draws a target for the president of Serbia on his chest and when in one rude and rude way they deal with his family. The institution of the Protector of Citizens is a guardian of rights and freedom and above all dignity of every citizen of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66617	Thank you. The word is from the MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66618	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Pasalic with associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today, we're talking about selecting Deputy Protector of the Citizens. On the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, we have discussed Mr Pasalic's proposal and willingness to speak in more detail about the biographies of candidates, as well as the willingness to co-operate with the MPs in terms of providing all the necessary information. This is very important, especially to the members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, who were able to know that they could have the opportunity to get all the information. I'm not going to talk specifically about candidates, I just want to say that they'll have a chance to support them in voting day. We are all aware of the importance of the existence of the Protector of citizens and the need to carry out the work properly and to exercise the powers conferred on the law. For the sake of more efficient and quality work, it is good to choose the Deputy Protectors of the Citizens, especially if we consider our previous experience with Sasha Jankovic and with all the abuses of this institution. In 2017, when we elected Mr Pasalić here in parliament, we put the accent on restoring trust with citizens in this institution. In this way, we have chosen a new Protector of Citizens and formally interrupted the abuse of the position of Protector of citizens for political purposes. In 2018 we discussed the Work Report from which we saw how important independence in work is, but also that the provisions of the laws and other regulations in the performance of that function can be respected. The citizen's protector is here to protect the rights of all citizens, not as before Mr Pasalic's period to be committed to certain politically colored groups, to build his political career, because it is exactly the behavior that is contrary to the law. It is right to review the work of the Protector of Citizens when he is running for president of the state, when he is clearly using his post to promote his policy and his candidacy, to satisfy personal interests and obtaining privileges. That's how citizens lose confidence in an institution. We are all in the protection of citizens' rights in the joint task and co-operation of this institution and with the National Assembly and with the Serbian Government and with other state bodies and institutions should be continued in this regard. As I said at the outset, the candidates will have support in voting day. I wish them success in their work, and, of course, I expect them to help citizens absolutely exercise their rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66619	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66620	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, on Day 345 that MPs of the opposition do not come to their jobs, a job for which they receive their salary neatly and thus show their relationship to the function they perform, their relationship with the National Assembly, as well as with the citizens of Serbia. Here, I must say, I expected them to come to the National Assembly meeting today, when we talk about the motion for a decision on the election of Deputy Protector of Citizens. Why today? Because it is about MPs who have once been in their political careers who have tenderly advocated independent institutions. So their mouths were full of independent institutions, we simply couldn't live with them in that sense, and especially when it comes to the period when their pals Sasa Jankovic and Rodoljub Sabic performed the functions of the Citizens' Protectors, in the case of Sasa Jankovic and the Public Information Commissioner, in the case of Rodoljub Sabic. Now that their pals are no longer performing these functions, and because their mandate has expired, so we haven't solved anyone, we haven't replaced anyone, but they're just routinely running out of mandate, and now they're not interested in the subject anymore. It's an extremely hypocritical attitude they take. So, God forbid that in that period someone negatively said or wrote about Rodoljub Sabic or Sasa Jankovic, although there were bright cases when they directly broke the law in such a way that they directly dealt with daily politics, abused their function, but how can I tell you, they were then protected as white bears, at the moment they would all be on their feet to accuse the authorities of tobosing endangering the work of independent institutions, when someone dared to say that Sasa Jankovic abuses his function in daily politics. So, he abuses the law by not doing his job, but by doing his day-to-day politics, by putting them and this Sabic and this Jankovic into the service of a wider front that had politics, therefore, a daily attack campaign against Alexander Vukic and the SNS. That's why I'm saying it's extremely hypocritical that they didn't come to the National Assembly session today. We also had a similar case when we were accused of not putting on the agenda a report on the work of independent institutions, including the Protector of citizens and all other independent institutions. Then, when the National Assembly held a session on whose agenda was just a report on the work of independent institutions, they did not come to that session. That's how they showed that, uh, extremely hypocritical attitude. Nervousness is noticeable and these days all of them and many MPs have mentioned it in their speech today, and this attempt to enter the National Assembly by Bosko Obradovic and I think that anxiety has been induced by Dragan Gilas. Why? Because a photograph came out in public, a very interesting photograph of Dragan Gilas and his brother-in-law. The one who was arrested with over two kilos of cocaine. This is the photograph, this is this Dragan Gilas, this is his brother-in-law who was arrested with cocaine. And now, when this came out in public and other questions are being raised in public for some other leaders of the Alliance for Serbia or whatever they call themselves, namely Boška Obradovica and the question is whether his godfather is arrested with no idea how many kilos of heroin, and now he culminates that anxiety and the consequence of that anxiety we see in public these days. We've just seen an attempt to fabricate several affairs in the past few days alone. We also have this attempt to infiltrate the National Assembly, and if anyone was interested in what caused this anxiety, here's what's causing that anxiety. When it comes to candidates for deputy citizens' protectors, the associated biographies show that serious biographies are at stake. So, very impressive biographies, very serious candidates, and we will certainly support those candidates. Mr. Pasalic, I would like to take the opportunity to repeat what I told you at that session when you were elected Protector of Citizens, which is that when you do your duty, let me say, you should do everything Sasa Jankovic didn't do. So, all you have to do is strictly adhere to the law and not do everything Sasa Jankovic has been doing and that's a recipe for sure success. From this time distance, I can say that I was right about that, and I expect the candidates to help you work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66621	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? Here you go, Mr. Pasalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66622	If I hear from you, I'd like you to listen to me. I'm really not going to be a long-term exhibit, but I'd like to address you this time when on the agenda is the choice of deputy citizens' protectors, which I suggested. Dear Members of the People, ladies and gentlemen and those who like to be called so, without discrimination for anyone, respected friends and comrades, this is an opportunity to tell you why I have defined myself to choose, or to propose, and you choose these candidates in a situation where the institution of the Protector of Citizens finds the most important changes or the most important changes for the work of institutions, and that is what I hope will soon be in front of you, that is the proposal for a new law on the protection of citizens, whose content I would not like to reconsider. First of all, I want to apologize to you why I haven't been to the morning session. I was with members of the Venice Commission, mentioned today, who gives an opinion on our laws and whose principles are practically in place and are incorporated in a proposal that I hope will be very soon before you a new Law on the Protector of Citizens. What is important is that this new law is not written in accordance with the Venice principles because of the Venice principles, which I and the members of the Venice Commission have said, but rather in a better, safer way, they solve the problems of Serbian citizens and which strengthen what is called human rights. It was important and it was my trigger, not to meet the principles of the Venice Commission, but the essence is that they are in 90% or even 100% of the proposed principles and match. What's just as important is what I want to tell you today. These meetings that exist between the ombudsmans, across Europe, have great significance for all of us around the world. What I can say, which is that often what the Minister won't say, the Minister of one country, the Prime Minister of another country, the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister of the other country or some official president of the Assembly, the Protector of Citizens and the Ombudsman wants to say to each other, because from the most of the same problems they burden, the same concerns they have and similar areas of dealing with. I mean, I even claim that the U.S. citizens' institution and everyone who works with me and me with them knows best the state of human rights, not only in Serbia, but in other countries around Europe and around the world, because we heard it from competent conversators like those in those countries who protect human rights. So, in all these discussions that could be created in the state of human rights, both here and in other environments and in other countries, believe me, it would have something to say, but it's not the subject of this debate. Without desire, mystifying an institution, the name of the Protector of Citizens, I want to tell you what I am in direct contact with, I will say to the Protector, although it works differently, a different organisation, a Swedish Ombudsman, a country where the institution of Simeon was created and repeatedly in communication with my dear colleague found out and simply demystified it, which is that the Ombudsman is not some special figure, he, when translated into our language, means that it is a parliamentary adviser. The three of us and the rest of us in the institution, we're here to tell you, the representatives of the people, what's bothering this people, what's affecting this people, where we've made a mistake in passing laws, that we need laws to amend, in which direction we should be and go in making new laws. I also want to say thank you, primarily to the citizens of Serbia who have chosen me through you, that the Protector of Citizens does not belong to the authorities, to the opposition, to NGOs, to international organisations, to international forums, belongs to those who chose him, which is to you Serbian citizens. That's why the system that's been introduced, which is that you can always knock on that door in Deligradska 16th or wherever, when we're going around the cities of Serbia, is your door. These people I've proposed, what I can guarantee for them, that there are people who have worked very, very hard for all of the century. I don't need pamphlet writers, I don't need people who will give general places and grades without argument, I need people who work, people who can bring out what's called protection of the rights of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. My two colleagues and all those who sit in the institution of the Protector of Citizens, who are making every effort to overcome the pressure that exists on the institution by the people who, when they come to us, are brought to the wall, who have visited all possible institutions and have been rejected by all institutions, including those who are obliged and obliged to help them, these people and such people, we need them. What I've seen in these two years, I'm going to take just a few more minutes, that's that you often don't understand what this institution is doing. She's not gonna deal with affairs, she's not gonna deal with empty stories, she's gonna say something, and when she's behind something, it's got to be backed up by evidence and arguments. I don't let the stories go, no matter whose mouth these stories come from or what the desires of those who speak those words in any way. That's how the institution is strengthened, I've seen it, that's how her credibility is raised, and I've seen it, and so what's most important is that citizens trust us and come with the right that they have to seek what they think is theirs. I beg you, please, in some future period, that cooperation may be even more intense. Not all deputies have been selected, there is still one empty place left, and it will be filled soon enough. I'm sure these people will help me, as I'm helped by employees at the Civil Protection Institution, and I have more time for this communication that we have today. I listened carefully to all the speakers, so that what the citizens of Serbia feel is not good here, we can make it work. I'm sure if there are ears that can hear and eyes that can see, that we'll only improve those things for their own good, because I'm sorry to be able to make such a finding, and I can say it in this high house, because of them you're here, and I'm with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-11-0.u66623	Since no one is answering for a word anymore, pursuant to Article 98(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude a single search into the motion for a decision on the election of Deputy Protector of the Citizens. We'd be done with today's work. We'll continue tomorrow at 10:00.
