ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-21-0.u55809	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the twenty-fourth special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. On the basis of the official record of the presence of MPs, I find that 103 MPs attend the session. To determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., please insert your cards into the MPs' units. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 127 MPs are present in the hall. We move to a decision on the proposals for the conclusions set out in points 1, 2 and 3 of the agenda. I put to the vote a proposal for a conclusion on the review of the State Audit Institution's work for 2018, which was submitted by the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds on 31 May of this year. I conclude the vote: 127 MPs voted in favour. I find that the Assembly has adopted a proposal for a conclusion. I put to the vote the proposal for a conclusion on the review of the report on the work of the Fiscal Council for 2018, which was submitted by the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds on 13 May this year. I conclude the vote: 127 MPs voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a conclusion. I put to the vote the proposal for a conclusion on the review of the Commission's work on competition protection for 2018, which was submitted by the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy on 27 March this year. I conclude the vote: 127 MPs voted in favour. I find that the proposal for a conclusion has been adopted. We have one breach of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Momo Colaković pointed to a violation of Article 103. Rules of Procedure. Please decide on this injury. I conclude the vote: eight MPs voted for it. I find that no breach of the Rules of Procedure has been accepted. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I conclude the twenty-fourth special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the Eleventh Assembly. Thank you.
