ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-18-0.u60949	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the 18th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sitting is attended by 87 MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please insert your identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 84 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic and Mr. Dejan Radenkovic. We continue to work and move on to a principled search on the second item of the agenda – Proposal for an authentic interpretation of the provision of Article 2. Law confirming the Treaty on Amendments and Supplements of Financial Contracts 23.761, 24.745, 25.002, 25.198, 25.497, 25.610, 25.872, 81.657 and 82.640, between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank "Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia – International Contracts" No. 11/17. We move to the paper of the Proposal for authentic interpretation of the provision of Article 2. Law confirming the Treaty on Amendments and Supplements of Financial Contracts between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank, already said, "Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia – International Contracts" No. 11/17. You have received a proposal for authentic interpretation, which was submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly total time of debate in principle for MPs and parliamentary groups shall be five hours, and this time shall be allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs, Article 96(4). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. In accordance with Article 195, and in accordance with Article 157(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a principle search on the proposal for an authentic interpretation of the provision of Article 2. Law confirming the Treaty on Amendments and Supplements of Financial Contracts 23.761, 24.745, 25.002, 25.198, 25.497, 25.610, 25.872, 81.657 and 82.640 between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank "Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia – International Contracts" No. 11/17. Does the word of the proposing representative, MP Gjorge Komlenski, chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives want? Yeah. Here you go, colleague Komlenski.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-18-0.u60950	Thank you, Chairman. At its session, the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee decided to submit a proposal to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of the provisions of Article 2. Law confirming the Treaty on Amendments and Supplements of Financial Contracts 23.761, 24.745, 25.002, 25.198, 25.497, 25.610, 25.872, 81.657 and 82.640 between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank "Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia – International Contracts" No. 11/17. Namely, the Committee first found that the motion to launch the initiative was submitted by an authorised promoter, by the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport, Infrastructure and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and at the initiative of Serbia-Montenegro's Flight Control, SMATSA doo Belgrade. In practice, firstly, I will remind you of a brief review, there has been a problem in the application of these international contracts, when loans are concluded with the European Investment Bank, because taking credit to the European Investment Bank in some way excluded the competence of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures. Practically, amendments and additions to these laws, which have been confirmed by the Treaties, have been adopted in order to ensure two-stageness in these procedures and to ensure the jurisdiction of the Republic Commission. I will remind you that it is concluded with the European Investment Bank of the amending and supplementing financial contracts that I have counted, where the key provision of Article 2(2), which reads – at the end of Article 604, relating to the procurement process, checks the legal remedies procedure as provided for in Serbian legislation, will be made available to any party with an interest in obtaining a specific contract and which has been damaged or risk being damaged by the alleged infringement. In practice, it is possible to address the problem of the lack of legal medicines that existed in the basic texts of those financial contracts, because unlike other lenders, the European Investment Bank does not act in the second instance on complaints from stakeholders. For this very reason, this in practice and life is not entirely covered by the whole of the problem, because the Republic of Serbia has not been advertised in situations where the loans concluded by the European Investment Bank with other users, except in the case of a borrower of the Republic of Serbia and in which the Republic of Serbia was a contractual party. Otherwise, all the provisions that have been concluded, as well as contracts with the Republic of Serbia, are absolutely identical. As it is an identical legal situation, and in these other contracts where the Republic of Serbia has not directly concluded as a borrower of the contract and is not the bearer of all these, the Republic Commission has continued to reject the objections and, in practice, to prevent two-stage action and decision-making, when it comes to the interests of the users of these funds. This is the reason for accepting this initiative and setting out a proposal for authentic interpretation in the way it has been delivered to the National Assembly for further proceedings and decision-making, because it is a completely identical legal situation and we believe that providing conditions for two-stage decision-making can only provide one absolute security, legality and control of the procedure being implemented and when loans are taken and, for example, public undertakings or some other institutions are not in a position to submit a legal remedy and simply block the use of these funds for a longer period of time, because then the procedure, procedure and everything else goes to one entirely other during which it is not least in the interest of the Republic of Serbia. Here, for starters so much. I think this is something that we rightly propose to Parliament and something that will indeed provide adequate and appropriate application and equality of all participants in public procurement procedures, when it comes to the funds provided by the European Investment Bank's loan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-18-0.u60951	Thank you, colleague Komlenski. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word has the deputy president of the SPS parliamentary group, Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go, colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-18-0.u60952	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, having in mind that we are discussing the proposal for authentic interpretation, which was given by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and Constitutional Affairs, which authentic interpretation refers primarily to the Treaty on Amendments and Completions of Financial Contracts, and the provision of Article 2 of the same Treaty, which was concluded between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank, it is necessary to take first of all to come from the importance of the European Investment Bank, when it comes to Serbia, to come to what is the essence, and the essence is how to explain why authentic interpretation is needed and why economic operators, particularly legal entities in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, when it comes to this norm, must have absolute legal and economic security. I will start with the importance of the European Investment Bank for the Republic of Serbia first. It is doubtless that the European Investment Bank is one of the most serious partners in Serbia's reforms and modernisation. Why? Because, just through the European Investment Bank, no less than 10 billion euros has been invested in Serbia so far. Indeed, an impressive figure, on the one hand, can be interpreted as one incentive and one support, one step forward, when it comes to infrastructure projects and investment in infrastructure projects. On the other hand, we must bear in mind the fact that the European Investment Bank is always in the role of the borrower, and the Republic is always in the role of the borrower, i.e. those who appear as beneficiaries of the European Investment Bank's assets always have the legitimacy of the borrower. Is this parity now, this borrower-loan relationship in the sense of words that implies respect and laws on bonding relations, or that debt-trusting element, is it always something that can be considered favourable, that is to assess from case to case, but it is important to point out that these investments in economic terms are only going in one direction, which is the direction of support for local self-government, autonomous provinces, i.e. Vojvodina, cities, local self-government when it comes to municipal investment, i.e. communal infrastructure, and especially everything that is important for citizens' lives, i.e. where citizens' needs are best served. I must mention, first of all, the projects of road and rail infrastructure, then, health infrastructure, which was invested by the European Investment Bank and Serbia, and so far these investments are about 600m euros. It should also be pointed out that the European Investment Bank has significant investments, again I say through a borrowing or borrowing relationship, however we can categorize it, in digitalisation projects, then projects start up the application of innovation technologies, scientific and technological parks, especially in Novi Sad. One of the scientific and technological parks in Novi Sad is otherwise scheduled to end by the end of 2019, and there are currently investments of around 60m euros. As for investment in universities, kindergartens, schools, we also have significant investments in the European Investment Bank. First of all, I have to mention investments in the Institute of Oncology, the orthopedic hospital in Banjaca, the National Front Breed, etc. What the citizens of the Republic of Serbia need to know is the fact that local self-government through the European Investment Bank managed to solve a number of municipal and other problems, starting with water supply problems, construction of city markets, and everything else. All that I've been saying, all that I've been saying is the fact that the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank have a serious partnership. This serious partnership involves the development and improvement of co-operation in the areas I just cited, which are the areas most important to the lives of citizens of infrastructure, municipal and other projects. This is why it is very important that economic and legal entities in the Republic of Serbia enjoy a certain kind of legal certainty when it comes to applications, i.e. specifically on the application of Article 2 of the Treaty, which the Republic of Serbia concluded with the EIB. Why am I saying this? Because it has been confirmed through authentic interpretation that this very provision of Article 2 in practical terms of words must be applied consistently, that all those subject to this contract, which is not only the Republic of Serbia, are literally all legal entities participating in public procurement procedures, and that is where the issues related to SMATSA have been raised, which is flight control related to the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro. Given that, as my esteemed colleague Gjorge Komlenski pointed out, there were problems relating to the procedure itself in public procurement procedures, and especially problems related to the resolution of the second-degree procedure, this problem is now being solved through this authentic interpretation, because instead of the practice so far, so-called. the rejection or rejection of the objection, taking into account that the objections of those which were deemed not to have the right to have the right of the borrower, are now subject to the right of the borrower to participate in public procurement procedures under the provisions of the Public Procurement Act adopted by the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, a system of legal certainty, equality before the law and, most importantly, the existence of a right to legal remedy, and, if there is a right to legal remedy or remedy, there must be an automatic one who decides on that remedy and that remedy, and that is the Commission for the Protection of Rights. It's nothing new, no one invented hot water. It's something that already exists, it's something that already works, which produces certain legal consequences. The Commission for the Protection of the Rights of Institutions, which has been established for a long time and has been functioning for a long time now, has only been clarified that this same Commission for the Protection of Rights is a body that decides on legal remedies in relation to all legal entities participating in public procurement procedures. The SPS parliamentary group unreservedly supports the government of the Republic of Serbia, the president of the Republic of Serbia, who is making great efforts to make sure that the Republic of Serbia and all its citizens appear as someone in this partnership's relationship to have the status they deserve, which is to invest through loans where it is most needed, where Serbian citizens will feel best and where their interest will be to the greatest extent protected. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-18-0.u60953	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. The word has the mandated representative of the SDPS parliamentary group, MP Slavica Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-18-0.u60954	Thank you, Chairman. Dear fellow Members of the People, before us today is the Proposal for authentic interpretation of the provisions of Article 2. The law confirming the changes and additions of certain financial contracts between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank. The European Investment Bank as a lender, and the Republic of Serbia as a borrower, have concluded a number of financial contracts. However, some financial contracts have caused difficulties in implementing domestic legislation. I'm going to state what contracts are so that we can simply come up with the problem we're discussing today. These are contracts relating to Clinical Center A of 2006, Clinical Centre B of 2008, municipal and regional infrastructure from 2009, highway Corridor 10 of 2009, research and development in the public sector from 2010, school modernisation programme, highway Corridor 10 relating to E80 from 2010, rehabilitation and road safety from 2013 and improvement of justice facilities from 2016. During the application of these contracts, there was a problem of competence in the second instance at the request of interested parties in public procurement procedures. Those contracts concluded by the Republic of Serbia with the European Investment Bank limit the application of domestic law in public procurement while excluding the competence of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures. The European Investment Bank, on the other hand, does not take into account the requirement for protection of rights in public procurement procedures, with the reason that domestic legal medicines in this part that did not exist in these cases and we are facing a problem of blocking public procurement and in general blocking the implementation of projects for which the funds have been approved. In all such cases, pending the adoption of a law whose authentic interpretation is proposed today, the Commission rejected objections with the reason that it was not competent. Invoking that it is a procedure that is not followed by the rules laid down by the Home Law on Public Procurement. In view of all of this, it was necessary for the Republic of Serbia, as a borrower, to conclude with the European Investment Bank an amending and supplementing financial contracts, where the key provision in Article 2(2), which was added to the texts of the original contracts, which reads - to verify the procedures under legal remedies, as provided for in Serbian legislation, will be available to any party that had an interest in obtaining a specific contract and which was damaged or risk being damaged by that breach. This resolves the lack of legal medicines that existed in the basic texts of the financial contracts, protecting the rights of stakeholders and bidders and starting with the implementation of the projects for which the loans were granted. In this way, the problem has not been solved entirely because the law whose authentic interpretation is proposed today, i.e. Article 2 added to the original texts, covers only those loans from the European Investment Bank which are concluded with the Republic of Serbia in the form of a borrower, in cases where third party users are, or in such contracts, they are called promoters. However, the European Investment Bank also concluded contracts with business entities based in the Republic of Serbia. The law clarifies an example of the 88.008 contract, concluded by the European Investment Bank, as a lender with control of Serbia-Montenegro's flight, which is a limited-responsibility society based in Belgrade, as a borrower. Here arises the same problem that existed before the National Assembly adopted a law whose authentic interpretation is required. The responsibility of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures is disputed. Of course, the claim for the protection of rights in public procurement procedures is again rejected by the Commission on the grounds that it is not competent because it considers that its jurisdiction cannot be determined by a contract, but only by law. All the laws that the Republic of Serbia has concluded with the European Investment Bank are confirmed by law in the Serbian Parliament, and thus the competence of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures has been confirmed. Notwithstanding the fact that there is a clause in such a contract which clearly defines the jurisdiction of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures, the Commission says that its jurisdiction cannot be determined by a contract, but only by law. If such a contract had been concluded by the Republic of Serbia with the European Investment Bank, it would have been confirmed by law and jurisdiction would have been very clear. However, since it is a commercial entity which is a limited-responsibility society, we have again come to the problem we had before the law was passed in 2017. In this way, we have come to the situation that there is an identity between the legal situation which was governed by the law of 2017, whose authentic interpretation is also proposed by the legal situation which was created in this disputed contract. It is always about a loan contract in which one of the European Investment Bank's contracting parties is as a lender. The loan is always taken in favour of legal entities which have the property of the contracting authorities under the Public Procurement Act. Whenever there is no foreign element in one public procurement, legal entities benefiting from a loan are subject to the Public Procurement Act. Interested parties and bidders have no one to apply for the protection of rights, which is why the regularity of the procurement procedure is compromised. The person benefiting from the loan has been forced to postpone the application of financial contracts, thereby blocking the implementation of the projects for which the loan was taken. Those identities are sufficient grounds for issuing the proposed authentic interpretation which would provide for the provision of Article 2. The Law confirming the amending and supplementing financial contracts completed by the Law on 1 November 2017 applies not all financial contracts concluded by the European Investment Bank with economic operators established in the Republic of Serbia, which have the property of the contracting entities within the meaning of the Public Procurement Act. The Social Democratic Party as a partner in the Government of the Republic of Serbia will always be for solutions that will further improve the domestic legal system in order to create opportunities, to realise selected loans that finance projects leading to our country's prosperity. All the contracts concluded with the European Investment Bank are essentially contributing to the socio-economic development of Serbia and the whole region, and therefore my fellow SDPS MPs and I will vote in favour of an authentic interpretation because unless under the domestic legislation we provide mechanisms for spending the selected funds, the question of further lending and the question of quality is what kind of contracts will be in the next period. The European Investment Bank in Serbia has invested more than five and a half billion euros in the public private sector since 2001, with more than 70 capital projects and 300 smaller ones at the site. The European Investment Bank in Serbia has invested in rail, road infrastructure, energy, health, education, research and development. A report by the European Investment Bank indicates that the private sector is faster because it has a clear objective of achieving profit while the public sector is usually there to raise the quality of a service. The public sector is a tromium. This is not only the case in Serbia but in general. The transition countries are believed to need to strengthen the capacity of efficiency and transparency of the public sector. This all results in slower withdrawal of funds when it comes to the state while in the private sector everything happens in about a year or two. Of course, that projects that are more publicly relevant are more complex and need full procedures to be completed in order to be implemented, if the preparatory actions are not well planned then they will also be delayed with the withdrawal of funds. Serbia is currently at 88% of the funds withdrawn when we look at statistics in the last ten years. This is a very good percentage and it is very important to bear in mind that between 2013 and 2016 they had a reduction in new investments due to fiscal consolidation in the public sector, but started projects implemented according to planned dynamics. In the last three years, all 579m euros have been paid for roadway 10, to build highways such as Greece and Bulgaria where the European Investment Bank has financed the most difficult shares, and these are shares through the Grdelička and Sijdevačka gorge. It is precisely because of the successful realisation, planned projects and efforts that the Serbian government is making to create conditions for new investments that will ensure a stronger connection with the countries of the region, on 13 September this year, the headquarters of the Southeast European Transport Community has been opened in Belgrade. The goal of the development of the transport network, between the EU and the Southeast European countries, but also to strengthen the transport system that is in line with EU standards. It is significant that the Secretariat will contribute to reducing the cost of transport projects by up to 30%, as well as attracting new investments, as well as to supporting countries in the region's preparation and implementation of transport projects, strengthening their interconnection, as well as EU integration, as well as harmonisation of legislation and standards with those in the EU. It is one of the contracts aimed at improving air traffic in the region that is also the reason why we are talking today about a proposal for authentic interpretation. This is an 88,008 contract aimed at providing new investments in the construction and modernisation of flying control facilities and the construction of new and reconstruction of old radar systems at Serbian airports. The contract is part of a programme to modernise Serbia-Montenegro's flight control for 2017. - 2021. For this period, modernisation of the Serbia-Montenegro flight control system is planned, including procurement and implementation of radar systems. Modernisation will meet the requirements and standards of the European package of regulations, known as the single European sky, which were implemented in Serbia-Montenegro. The modernised system will improve the security, capacity, efficiency and economics of the air traffic management system, improve the transport of the region to reduce gas and noise emissions. The ownership of the Republic of Serbia is 92%, and this programme will invest a total of 118m euros, including investments in four airports in Serbia, Constantin Veliki in Nis, Ponikve in Uzic, Morava in Kralje and "Nikola Tesla" in Belgrade. The most significant investment is at the Nis airport, where it will only be invested in building a 5.5m-euro tower, which is very important, so that the airport can be used as an alternative airport in Belgrade. In order to address the problem of congestion in the realisation of very important projects from the loan of the European Investment Bank, when it comes to the realization of the SMATSA project d.o.o. which are of great importance for further development and improvement of air traffic in the Republic of Serbia, as well as other contracts, which will also be concluded in the coming period with economic operators from the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank. Members of the SDP will vote in favour of authentic interpretation of the provisions of Article 2. The law establishing the amending and supplementing financial contracts, which I have previously stated, in order to prevent adverse consequences, which may lead to misunderstandings in the application of those provisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-18-0.u60955	Thank you, colleague Zivkovic. Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word has the mandated representative of the SRS parliamentary group, MP Milorad Mircic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-18-0.u60956	Ladies and gentlemen, today we are deciding something that has been extorted by the European Investment Bank. In order to make it clear to the public, the contracts signed with this bank since 2006 and until 2017, with the specific agreements already in place relating to flight control, relating to clinical centres, and all the funds invested on the basis of the European Investment Bank's credit line are, in a way, hitched to the realisation by the European Investment Bank, for the reason that the European Investment Bank warns the Serbian Government that it must first of all respect domestic legislation. This is not the edge of the words referred to for the reasons why we in the SRS believe that this should have been done in one way or another, but for the reason that we of the SRS have warned that domestic laws and laws adopted in this Assembly must be respected. One of those laws is the Public Procurement Act. When the European Investment Bank approved dedicated funds used by the Republic of Serbia, certain problems occurred. Namely, when it comes to the appeal procedure in the public procurement process, the problem of a practical nature arose where the European Investment Bank was to decide on complaints from participants in this procurement process. The European Investment Bank called for Serbia's domestic legislation and said the Law on Public Procurement was passed, and we have repeatedly said that it was the SNS pride as much as it was and how it announced that the law they propose would rebirth Serbia when it comes to public procurement. The European Investment Bank said domestic legislation provides that the public procurement commission is a first-degree body on appeal. According to classical interpretation, the Commission said - yes, it is true, but only when it is a signator of speech and user of the funds of the Republic of Serbia. In the belief that this will go hand in hand, the European Investment Bank said, however, that there must be a first-degree body when it comes to the appeal process, and that body is the Commission for the implementation of public procurement. And now there's been a vacuum since 2006. There is a hitch to the implementation of individual projects, i.e. the placement or release of funds approved by the European Investment Bank. We have a case where a new highway contract was signed the other day, as they called it, "The Road of Peace" in shares from Nis to Pristina, where the European Investment Bank approves a 100m-euro loan. Now that's very interesting, not for reasons the public would think that the European Investment Bank is helping us. There's no help at all, in a literal sense of the word. It is a credit line used by Serbia, credits approved by the European Investment Bank, and loans Serbia must return in some periods, as already defined by the contract, so there is no big help, but it helps this part where it warns the Serbian authorities that they must comply with the laws they adopt. In this particular case, which is the latest date, where the European Investment Bank has decided to credit the construction of a part of the Peace Highway from Nis to Pristina, no matter how grotesque this sounds at the moment, that this is peace, the European Investment Bank announces in advance, in particular the interpretation of Article 2, announces that the Public Procurement Act must be respected. Why do we Serbian radicals insist on what the European Investment Bank insists on? Not because we're Euro fanatics overnight or something, but because it's kind of a shame for our home government to warn him about the creditor, giving credit to him that he has to respect the laws he's passed. And, for another reason, we cite just an example of a newer date, where the European Investment Bank says -- in the event of granting a 100m-euro credit line to finance the Nis-Pristina road share, it will also insist on a consistent implementation of the public procurement process. Remember, ladies and gentlemen, and the public remembers when we, the Serbian radicals, presented evidence here, facts about construction and related to competition and competition documentation for the construction of the Preljina highway - Poete. It's that Sumadian corridor. At that time, we clearly and loudly presented what is being done to cause direct damage not only to the legislation, but also to the financial damage done to the Republic of Serbia. The legislation of the Republic of Serbia is applied by the ministry, namely the government itself, proposing a Lex specialis. It is a special law that immediately deleted public procurement as an item to be included in the contract for the construction of the Forest Corridor. That's one thing. Secondly, it has financially damaged Serbia. First, a photo of the future performer was published, and the current known "Bechtel" by granting 800m euros on behalf of the construction of the highway. Look what's illogical. The illogicalness is that in the section of the highway from Nis to Dimitrovgrad, about 100km long, the financial project amounted to 480m euros. With all these adjustments, make it 500m euros. That, about, fits some standards when it comes to building highways where one kilometer of the 1m-euro highway, or 5m-euro, is an apology. That's about the kind of relationship. There's something here that goes beyond standard, but even in one part and sound logic, common sense. We have here for a stock that is 120km, with all the following facilities to be 120km, 800m euros. Now we're talking about, we don't get into these details when it comes to the ravine, when it comes to the benefits of the terrain, where the government explains that this difficult job in the Forest Corridor refers to the water supply, and we're all witnesses of how much money has been spent, how much time has been lost just by breaking into the ravine, everything that involves both tunnels and the recovery of the terrain, and so on and so on. There is no correlation that could show us that there is some logic or that there is some way of thinking about what the benefit of Serbia is, in the sense that as little funds or resources as normally provided for by all some standards in the world, it should be in Serbia. We have heard here from the resorient minister, who is present in the public, minority, more than the Dormeo equipment, where she says it is and how significant for Serbia that, instead of counting a normal price of 580 million, it stands out 800 million for the construction of this Forest Corridor. So, what happened? The majority in this assembly listened carefully to the explanation, passed that law, a law which is a special law, which eliminates not only the procedure or the process of public procurement, but completely eliminates the payment of customs duties for the import of repromaterials that is necessary for the construction of that highway that will connect Corridor 10 and Corridor 11. Now look at the damages that these are caused only by one reckless gesture, one contract that's basically criminal. The damage was done directly to all taxpayers and citizens of Serbia. Now the European Investment Bank is coming to all this, which, no matter what anyone thought, warns that the Public Procurement Act must be respected. Why? Because the first-degree body is located in Serbia and is called the Public Procurement Commission. The second-degree body is located in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, where it is located, and the headquarters of the European Investment Bank. When we explained that laws cannot be broken in such a way that no competition can be called for participation in the construction of such significant capital investments, as the Government has done in the area of the Forest Highway, we have received the answer that it is all in the interest of the Republic of Serbia. We've been made clear and loud. Even in certain moments, we've been called by a resolute minister by all kinds of names. What we are honored by our Serbian radicals, in order to eventually come to that conclusion by the minister that we are against the highway. We, the Serbian radicals, who point out and draw attention to crime and criminal acts that occur and are carried out by individuals in the Serbian government, should be held accountable for the crime that is being announced in advance. What's the motive of all this? Well, most likely the motive was easy thinking or one-time thinking if we "bechtel", the American company that is and how significant a great renome, allow such an investment, such an expensive investment, we will in some way gain the favor of American official policy, because in most cases, the "bechtel" hired and how significant personnel not only from the field of politics, not just individual senators, but mostly former officers, people who were in intelligence structures. That's exactly how we Serbian radicals defined one-time, short-sighted thinking. There is no one who will feel sorry for you because you will give him the 300 million difference in investment, so he will remember that, so he will go lobbying to America to convince the official policy of the United States that in Serbia, however, it is not what some represent, that in Serbia is progress, that Serbia is a country that should soon enter the EU, as Eurofanatics created overnight, imagined in their heads. No, he'll take your money, gentlemen, or take our money, better said, precisely, and he doesn't give a shit. He doesn't care about both Serbia and the Serbian government. Perhaps he will take care of individuals from the Serbian government who are his favorites and pithomies, such as the respective resolution minister. It is famous for having good ones, but in this case political, relations with official American representatives, especially with the ambassador, because we have mentioned countless times already, it stood beside the ambassador of America who spoke loudly and clearly that Kosovo was an independent independent state and no one from the government, especially from the ruling coalition, responded to it. It's just that a man can't believe that at least someone didn't take the right to warn her, to say, you can't do that, you had to, if you didn't already find it appropriate to react, to react, to at least send a statement or a notice to the public that you didn't agree with the kind of attitude that the American ambassador put forward. No, that was nice to some. Why? Because overnight created Europhiles, they are all glad to come from this advanced EU, that is, coming across the ocean, and that is even more pleasant, because they think that if they touch each other, if they somehow impose a team from America on representatives, that they will have some privilege, that they will personally advance, that they will have some perspective. You won't, gentlemen. Look at the ones you're criticizing, the ones from DOS. You see how they are now being spent - like barefoot. Do you think those DOS leaders, especially their former leaders, would not enjoy the capital they stole in Serbia? They'd enjoy it. It's millions and millions of euros, and they've been thinking about how we're showing you, when they get a huge fortune, when they're so rich in person, they're going to pull out of politics and enjoy the benefits of that money they stole in Serbia, with the approval and ultimately the favor of American, above all, American official politics. But you can see how cruel it is in life. They've just shorted out, just made plans, and they've activated them and said now you're going to conflict politically with those you've created and you see that it's not pleasant at all. All the money they've earned now would only be given to have some personal peace, if you didn't call them daily that they were thieves, that they were criminals, that they stole money. We've said it before, so it's no wonder when we've only heard lately that Serbians were ruled by thieves, both by American and EU officials, and now they torture them by having to spit on you and you politically spit on them. Serbia is having fun with this, and in the corridor, building a highway from Preljin to Pojat, 300 million should pay the state of Serbia more than is foreseen by all standards adopted in the world. And what we Serbian radicals are now, we need to alarm the public again, say it is pure crime, that it cannot be disqualified and special laws cannot be passed in order to disqualify public procurement laws, in order to disqualified customs laws, in order to disqualify the sense of competition and participation in competitions at all. We've been telling you, gentlemen, that this is how you put a final blow on all those domestic operatives who were doing highway construction. It's just that now it's the nail on their coffin that means death was struck and there's nothing left of them. Why? Because Bechtel will hire foreign companies, specifically as he did on a highway from Pristina to Albania, he hired a Turkish company, so he will hire a foreign company here, not to hire domestic performers. We were saying that, now we're just reminding you, you'll see it's another additional damage which, in addition to these public procurements, aside from the increased or increased abnormal prices for the construction of that highway, besides the elimination of customs duties is directly caused by the Serbian Government's damage to our companies, our contractors. You gentlemen are free to brag about how you have a surplus, how you've made an economic shift, because everything you've done is now literally pouring into foreign pockets. Only this capital, which has been allocated on behalf of the loan, on the basis of the Bechtel loan is sufficient reason for us Serbian radicals to alarm the public, that this way of thinking, this way of leading the state into ruin. We are working on the benefit of foreigners here, and to the detriment of our domestic performers, we should experience that the European Investment Bank warns us that we must respect our legislation, in which the SRS fully agrees, and that is another political slap you get from this case, the European Investment Bank. (Alexandra Tomic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-18-0.u60957	Thank you, colleague Mircic. The violation of the Rules of Procedure, authorised representative of the SNS parliamentary group, MP Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-18-0.u60958	I thank the chairman. I think you were wrong about Article 106(2), which speaks of the speaker having to talk about the agenda point. Neither here is the proposal Moravian Corridor, nor is it financed by the IB at today's agenda point, nor is "Bechtel" the agenda point, nor is it a matter of some coffins as they say, alarming the public, but are simply financial contracts that talk about the clinical center A and B phase, the highway Corridor 10, and not the Moravian Corridor, research and development in the public sector, the school modernisation programme. Then, improving judicial facilities and rehabilitating road safety. Therefore, Mr. Chairman, you should have stopped and returned the speaker to the topic because it is in the interest of all of us today to send the truth to Serbian citizens how much such projects have contributed to Serbia's growth and development going beyond 4% of GDP and that we have the conditions to raise wages and give pensioners one-time assistance over the year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-18-0.u60959	Thank you, colleague Tomic. You have indicated Article 106(2) regarding the agenda of the session. I agree with you on the interest, but you must also understand that it is very difficult to predict what the MP will talk about during his presentation. I don't mean to, I don't usually interrupt anyone during exposure, and that's common knowledge. As for the interest and goal we want to achieve together, I fully agree. I don't think I've hurt the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, but of course I have to ask you if you want the National Assembly in the voting day to declare the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Alexandra Tomic: No. I thank you. The word has the mandated representative of the parliamentary group Movement Socialist-National Peasant Party-United Peasant Party, actually deputy president of the parliamentary group, MP Marijan Risticevic. Here you go, colleague Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-18-0.u60960	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this authentic interpretation has removed some of the misunderstandings. I'm glad it's done. For what reason? The reason is called Dragan Gilas. Why do you forget, ladies and gentlemen, that miraculous construction of the bridge on Ada, Adi Giganlia? We peasants have a good custom, to save, to watch when we're building something where we can achieve some savings, how to save money, how to do something faster to make it as cheap, more efficient and as fast as we can use it. I do not understand the city's leaders, who, while in the private company are the city's leaders, earn 619m euros, and at the same time where they operate in the public sector, are at minus a billion and 160m. I don't understand it, and in particular I don't understand the prosecution, who chose precisely those who didn't go with our peasant logic, the logic of Great Milos, Karajordje, that something should be done as effectively as possible, as cheaply and as quickly as possible and as possible to use it for the benefit of his people. What did they do? They chose the place where Sava is the widest. When we build bridges on our property, we look to make it where it's the cheapest, where it's cheapest, and where we can do it the fastest. If we choose to keep it in places that are four or five times as wide as where it's most efficient to do it, then we're against our property. So did those in Belgrade who built a bridge on Ada, as if they saw as much money as they could spend, not make it the fastest, most efficient, that it cost less, because when they took up loans, the citizens of Belgrade wrote a note. When the government in Belgrade borrows credit, the people write a note, and since these are long-term loans, including those not born, it is that they were not born, but they signed the note and became the jury of the loan. The government, this time Belgrade, when they raise these loans, pawns all citizens and they are obliged to repay the loan, not Gilas. I'm used to saying it serves to translate thirsty across the water. It connects two Belgrade meat communities, but let's move in a row. We are here saying that, regardless of these loans, public procurement must be implemented and that this commission has insight into how money is spent. I'm asking if the Ada Bridge is respected? I say they're not. The bridge that was supposed to cost 118 million, first the projected value was 90, so Mr. Gilas said it was supposed to cost 118 million, so it turned out to be 161 million, so in 2011, it was calculated as already costing 404 million, so it's already going three times up. In the end, they claim it's 450 million, with no more traffic. Those cars in Worker's, and some others there, cost 280 million. What kind of bridge is that in which cars, access points, and they're not all built, cost twice as much as the bridge? He's 200 meters tall and in the place of that power that struck, I'd climb up to the highest point of the bridge and look down below where he's hard ground and because of his responsibility to the people, jump off that bridge, if I'd done it. Of course Gilasu didn't think of that. He would push us all off that bridge for the 619m euros he was making. I have a contract here. Well, guys, this is so, they're loading like a mate's mare, like someone else's mare. It's whatever someone wants to take some money on the bridge on Ada, no problem, it's expensive steel, cargo, cargo. They don't give a shit, the Adi Bridge was another man's mare on which they could load all the costs of Dragan Gilas and the accompanying crew. I have contracts here called a contract to provide project manager services, consultant engineers. The contract has covered the period since 2006, so it has been extended, 58 months should have lasted. But, look, how does someone control something that doesn't have a building permit? I'm asking you, can consulting services be done in construction on a building that doesn't have a building permit? That's unimaginable to me. What if they don't get a building permit? What city, what directorate, can sign something like that? The consulting services have been done since 2006, by engineers. The engineer must have watched so much air, the impact of the humidity on possible construction, etc., he must have observed the influence of that Martian, etc., as much as he could harm by pulling traffic signs around and I don't know what that consultant was doing. Do you know what the salary of these engineers is, monthly? Don't faint, 16,000 euros, and the face for public relations, I guess he should have talked about how the works stand, don't progress, nothing happens, etc., that face I don't believe appeared between 2006 and 2008, that face had 4,000 euros. So, from 4,000 euros, auxiliary staff of 3,500 to 16,000 euros. Well, my fellow citizens, you who attack the MPs, just so you know that this Gilas contract and these friends of his with 16,000 euros, that means this -- that one MP in the Assembly is two years old and works for a month's salary of engineers who watched birds over a place of two years where the bridge will be built. The initial price, and all without public procurement, no public procurement, no complaints, no nothing. The company, I don't know if it was Scott or who, or who was the ambassador at the time, must be Jennifer Brass, she loved Gilas like this. The contract was with the company Louis Berger, if I said so correctly, U.S.A. So they got that contract and the basic contract was at 6,489,000. Well, I guess when they saw these Gilasovs pull, they decided to join in. I'm afraid some Balkan virus has caught them, a jilasian, some yellow ones, so when they saw them build the price of steel, this one, that one, they solved a little bit to help and recover. The basic contract was 6,489,000, at 58 months, which means that they are a monthly consultant engineer, who watched birds for two years, that he could monthly count on a 120,000-euro income. So, 120,000 euros for public relations, 4,000, some of them for an auxiliary driver 3,500, engineer 16,000, etc. Then there goes the annex, the famous annex. Annex 1 – add, add another 320,000 euros and add. Then Annex 2, they call it the adhesion, I call it the annex, it was worth 155,000, so then, as our people say, the ass caught the gallop, so Annex 3 was worth 6,710,000. Imagine when you transfer a base price with one annex, it means an annex for one year of 6,710,000, and the initial one was 6,489,000, so these 6,710,000 are added, all without public procurement, without any complaints, without anything. The annexes I found, and there are four in total, the last one seems to have been a little more modest, 1,400,000. In all, these contracts on consulting project manager services have been an engineer for 58 months and spent 24 months watching birds. There were no building permits, because the construction began immediately after obtaining a building permit, only in December 2008. You can very easily check that on the Internet. The bridge was supposed to cost 161 million, 118, then 161, so it cost 404, so it cost 450. And for that monster, the bridge monster, it takes, as far as I've heard, and some tunnel, it's going to cost, all in all, that it's going to end, that it's going to be in full function, that it's going to cost about a billion and a half. So, the basic contract of 6,489, for an engineer consultant, and finally, with four of these annexes, I believe there's still 15,088,497 euros, which is kind of 250% more than my projected price. Now, the authentic interpretation, if this government were, would certainly not have allowed this to be without public procurement. Why? Maybe the IBRD has a regulation that when they give credit, they don't need public procurement, even though it's so loose. They gave 69.6m, the European Agency for Reconstruction added two or three million, and the City of Belgrade, remember, the City of Belgrade from the budget, from public funds, not from the loan of 87m. Now I ask if this country is ready to deal with it? How is it possible that someone from the city budget took the first hand, in this first section of 161 million, 87 million from the bridge budget on Adi and the consulting contracts, the consultant engineer who supervised those phases and from city sources, and that it was all, and contracts and annexes, without public procurement. Then you're wondering why I'm the alliance that I'm boycotting here, probably can't get in now to re-load some obligations to the people and fill their pockets, and then wonder why I call them the alliance of thieves, cheaters and con men. That's exactly why. Today they boycott the state, and the City of Belgrade, namely the state of Serbia, will pay citizens of the city of Belgrade for all these failures that have missed public procurement. In this country during the yellow government, during these yellow cockroaches, during the yellow leeches that sucked 619m euros, on the one hand, into their pockets, and on the other hand sucked 400,000 jobs and sold all the country's social capital. Is there a prosecutor's office that they selected, so the prosecution is their party, it's the prosecution where prosecutors go with mobsters, where more prosecutors hang out with mobsters than mobsters with prosecutors. The mobsters don't invite prosecutors to their birthdays, but the mob prosecutors invite them to their birthdays, so they don't have sex on their own. Do this country where Majic judges, like that, imagine that if Majic were to win this case, I think he would have made a judicial decision to mark Dragan Djilas, who, without public procurement, increased the contract for an engineer consultant by 250%. In this country during their government, state secrets were public, and apparently public procurement was secret. They turned everything around. They made the army a well-armed army. They've made a military neutralized state of war. They filled their pockets well, stole everything that wasn't nailed to the ground, and what was nailed to the ground sold to others. The bridge on Ada is the most corrupt thing that's happened to this country. I took out some examples here. Let's say, in China, the bridge was three times higher than 18 meters higher, three times smaller. The second bridge in China that was two and a half times longer cost twice as much. The bridge on Ada is our most expensive corruption that is not punished by anything. You gentlemen, my friends from the SNS, in my opinion, had to clean up the republican prosecutor, because the prosecution is independent of this authority, but you're not on your own from the former government. The courts are independent of this government but are not independent of the former. That's why this goes without punishment, and our people more than bread, more than pay to steal these fines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-18-0.u60961	Thank you, colleague Rističević. The word has the mandated representative of the SNS parliamentary group, MP Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-18-0.u60962	Thank you, Chairman. Today is the point of the agenda of authentic interpretation for the contracts we talked a little bit about. We talked more about what the subject of authentic interpretation of the contracts signed by the Republic of Serbia with the European Investment Bank in the first place, and we came to the conclusion that the issue of public procurement, namely the relationship between the European Investment Bank and our legislation which precisely defines how the public procurement process should look at all, has at one point come to the conclusion that many of the contractors who wanted to receive these open procedures have complained not only to the Commission for the protection of rights in public procurement procedures, but also to the Commission of the European Investment Bank. At that moment, simply, all those planned assets of a bank, you come into a situation, first, that you can't pull out as a state, and the job for which there are projects, they just stop. In fact, the reason why we have this authentic interpretation today is that we want to open ourselves up and do the jobs we started, to open projects relating to the reconstruction of schools, hospitals, the construction of new roads, and that we need, essentially, to solve this work in this way, to try to make this European legislation, in which we have not yet fully integrated, when it comes to public procurement, because we have our own legislation, essentially, we are looking for a way, and this is the only legal way that those contracts that the state of Serbia has concluded with the European Investment Bank in planned amounts, and we realize. What does that mean? This means that they see the Commission for the Protection of Providers in Public Procurement Procedures as a second-degree body and see the Commission as a first-degree body. With us, for example, in our legislation, a first-degree body, as the Commission, you have a Public Procurement Authority belonging to the Ministry of Finance, and for us in our legislation, the Commission is a second-degree body. Of course, she is in charge of the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and precisely because of this second-degreeness, and indeed, we have had opportunities on the Finance Committee every year to adopt reports on the work of this institution, she has a very big job. She strives to try to solve as many cases as possible in an effective and efficient manner through her work, her legal acts and the modernisation of her work. I can tell you that these deadlines have now become smaller and smaller, although it is still a large number and they are still buried with a large number of objects. I think this way we will, in a way, relieve them of this pressure when it comes to suppliers working on European Investment Bank projects. I think that this will put an end to the problems that arise in the realisation of these projects, and that is why it is important that we have actually launched this kind of thing, like the Republic of Serbia, that it is not launched by the European Investment Bank, because it is in our interest to withdraw these funds. It's in our best interest to finish this job. Based on the list of projects that have entered through this authentic interpretation and based on what is planned, when it comes to projects of the Ministry of Economy, relating to municipal and regional infrastructure, you will see that 25m euros have been agreed for the reconstruction of buildings within the jurisdiction of local self-government, and everything has been withdrawn 23.76m. So is research and development in the public sector, where the Ministry of Education is one of the bearers of this job. Of the 200 million, only 109 million were withdrawn. So what we really need to say to the public is that the projects that are related to infrastructure, corridors, for the part relating to Corridor 10, lines 265 million and 314 have been fully withdrawn, realised. You know it's not as simple a job as for the Clinical Center, the 80m-euro Health Ministry investment project has also withdrawn all funds. You, when you cooperate with one of these institutions, in addition to all the permits you have, despite all the procedures you have, you have to keep a log of the construction books that, of course, you deliver to that joint commission. In that journal, after all, you also have supervision to sign that realization. In order to do all of this, in order for them to acknowledge the withdrawal of all these funds, everyone has to agree. This means that really control and supervisory on these projects is extremely rigid and detailed and therefore it's very difficult to do these kinds of jobs at all. That's why the Republic of Serbia, it was important to find a legal way to shut down, in fact, the standing of projects like this. Trust me on one invested dinar, when you have at all investments and investments through loans you have two dinars of income when it comes to investment projects like this. We now have roads where you will have a certain kind of fee, toll, which will be made directly into the budget. You have hospitals reconstructed with new equipment where our citizens can be treated. They won't have to go abroad. You have schools where children will indeed teach at the highest level and you will have a certain kind of savings when it comes to education, health and culture, and we say that they are non-profitable sectors. But when you spend less, in terms of investment in such objects, you sort of save. So the European Investment Bank's projects, which was established in 1957 during the European Economic Community, were later defined and formed during the EU on 7 February 1992, used market-based funds. Of course, in 2000, she saw that these market principles would be much easier to reach countries that were medium-developed and undeveloped countries through so-called. The fund that she formed investmentally. From that fund, it places funds. What is the advantage of the European Investment Bank compared to other international institutions and other banks co-operated by the state of Serbia? It is precisely because the financial resources it gives are not managed by those resources, but, on the basis of certain contracts with the State, it gives the funds to those in charge, i.e. the borrowers of those funds. These are certain ministries, certain public enterprises, when it comes to infrastructure, Serbia's Railways, Serbia's corridors, when it comes directly to the Ministry of Health, are then clinical centres. Therefore, the availability of money is precisely for those who do the job. The choice of performers is what interests us most. We've always been interested in home companies being the ones getting this job. The advantage of the European Investment Bank is that it gives, opens up the possibility for everyone on equal terms to participate. These terms are high for our companies? For some they are, for some they are not. That's why our companies are modernizing, their engineers are looking for a certain kind of license not only in Serbia, but abroad, just so they can work on projects like this. So we are also getting sophisticated personnel in terms of performing work that we have not had so far. You have had the opportunity to see that the great challenge was Corridor 10, when it came to the Sitch ravine and that those works when it came to supporting walls were a major challenge for the whole region at all, because no one has ever done that kind of work before. That we even borrowed from neighbouring countries specialized engineers to participate in projects like this to help us complete this project. Therefore, the European Investment Bank is mostly financing large projects, over 25 million individually. The funds available are over 50% when it relates to its investment, the second part of the state's investment should be provided. This means that the Republic of Serbia has been able enough to enter into a partnership with Serbia's budget when it comes to projects like this. The deadlines he gives are between six and twenty years old. So that question that we had so far had the opportunity to listen to, when it came to building bridges, we had an example of building a bridge on Adi by 2012, so we actually saw now that we could build two or three bridges with access tickets, not just one as Gilas built, because some of the additional works were 220m euros. So for those 220m euros of supplemental work, we could have built another bridge, or we could have done a certain part, or we could have completed certain shares of Corridor 10. Therefore, irresponsible policy is shown until 2012 by those who are now closing colleges and do not allow teachers or students to live and work. So they show in fact how they would run the state and continue to go with these projects where they would invest, above all, in their pockets, in their political campaigns, not invest in the Republic of Serbia, in its infrastructure, in equipment, in people who should be educated, and therefore Serbian citizens simply do not support such a policy. Speaking of today's annex, we said the key problem was public procurement. I'll tell you that we, as the Finance Committee, had a session outside the seat, where we had a debate on a draft law on public procurement that the government should adopt. I think a lot has been done in terms of public debates under this law and elsewhere, and in professional organisations, and I think that this problem that we have today through authentic interpretation will certainly be the subject of a new law on public procurement, and surely the Republic of Serbia will look to make certain solutions that we will no longer have to come to this opportunity to talk about authentic interpretations, but it will be a completely normal procedure with which, of course, the EIB will agree. So, we do it because of us, because of the Republic of Serbia, because of the projects we invest in infrastructure, because we have growing and bigger growth, so that we have bigger and bigger revenues, so that we have the opportunity as we now have, to raise salaries on average by 9.6%, when we talk about doctors and nurses, and about civil servants, that we are able to pay one-off fees to all pensioners under equal conditions, not just an increase in pensions, that we are able to simply launch a new Serbian investment project that needs to give certain funds that every local self-government, every public enterprise, every home of culture, every hospital feels a better and change. This change is felt every day, but what we need is greater growth and development to keep our young people in the country. More and more remain when they see projects like this rest on a real basis, on a real budget, on real raises, on the sustainability of our economy. So we now have one plan that the state of Serbia has accumulated 10 billion euros in investments over the next five years. This kind of new investment plan for the next five years, which is supposed to be a plan and that we're going towards that realization, should actually turn our growth completely to high growth rates, not just 4%, but 5 and 6. So would our children who would leave, stay here, because they would really work with the latest technologies. Finally, the end and those dealing with the IT sector mean young people. First of all, they see a chance in Serbia because IT sector exports from Serbia have now increased by 30% compared to the previous year. This means that they have motives here to work for both domestic and foreign companies, but they themselves are opening their own companies, because Serbia is going through digitisation and simply young people dealing with this sector are very much needed. So we think that the very way of realising these projects will, of course, be supported somewhere by the IT sector and therefore a complete story about that Serbia is turned black in these loans is not standing, because if you don't have the opportunity to raise such a loan, and you only have the possibility if you have a stable loan, you don't even have the opportunity to develop and it's a simple mathematics where if you have a higher level of investment you have reduced poverty. Serbia is heading towards that, towards high growth rates, because it wanted to reduce poverty. So basically, by reducing poverty, you're raising your standard of living, and through those figures that we're constantly talking about, that we've been declared one out of ten countries with the largest inflow of foreign direct investment for the past year by the Financial Times is a great deal of importance and great recognition, that we have unemployment at 11%, that we have stable inflation, that only in this half of the year we have two billion foreign direct investments. This shows that Serbia is very interesting for all investors to come here to invest their money. Therefore, as soon as you have such an economic environment, these projects thus prove to be possible for realisation. That's why the SNS voting day will support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-18-0.u60963	Thank you. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-18-0.u60964	Thank you. What we heard earlier from Mrs Tomic is indeed a debate that is within what her party's views are and should certainly not be lenient with it. Everyone has the right to speak to the public, and we Serbian radicals always advocate the full width of the debate. We never mind if the MP comes out of the subject, as some people like to say. But it seems to me that Mrs Tomic, i.e. that you have violated Article 106, paragraph 1, because you did not warn Mrs Tomic that the proposal for an authentic interpretation of the provision of Article 2 is on the agenda. The law attesting to the Treaty on Amendments and Supplements to Financial Contracts is the number of those and those, etc., between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank. So, part of her debate had nothing to do with this, because this has nothing to do with the salary increase, or the pension increase, and also how it has to do with the functioning of the ministry whose head is Zorana Mihajlović, and how it has to do with the Bechtel, that contract, this big scam and the bank robbery of the state budget, and then somehow it doesn't make sense that someone gets involved in the intervention a little before and turns their attention to the MP who's talking about getting out of the topic, because someone's fine ears don't want to hear the truth, and then, five minutes after that, they start talking absolutely out of it, I followed, seven minutes of their speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-18-0.u60965	Thank you, colleague Radeta. I didn't interrupt my colleague Tomic. I didn't interrupt my colleague Mircic. I have no intention, you know it, and I've never done it. Your colleague mentioned you a little bit, so I just did a digression. I didn't measure the time. But I agree with you, it is legitimately the right of every political party to present its political views during the debate and to have one democratic debate and democratic discussion of the opinion. I also agree that the subject is such that it allows a broad spectrum, i.e. a broad framework for interpretation and presentation of views. For this reason I have not interrupted anyone, and it is not my manner, you know, to interrupt MPs when they speak, because it is not in the spirit of democracy. But I have to ask you, do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? (No) I thank you. Since we no longer have a registered president, or representative of the parliamentary groups, we are moving to the order of the MPs according to the application for a word in principle on the proposal for authentic interpretation referred to in point 2 of the agenda. First of all, the People's MP, Muamer Zukorlic, has the word. He's not present. ) The word has a folk MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. (Not present. ) The word has a People's MP, Jahja Fehratovic. He's not present. ) The word has a People's MP, Bojan Bagica. He's not present. ) The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic. Comrade Sarovic, you are present. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-18-0.u60966	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Milicevic, it seems that today's debate again was not taken seriously by representatives of the ruling parties, as it was a few days ago, when there were more Serbian Radical Party MPs in the hall than the ruling coalition. And here, as we can see, the first three on the list from the ruling coalition are not present, but it is their right to represent the citizens of Serbia in this way. I ask those who are present and who are getting it, let them do it even louder, because it assures me that I hit the right wire with what I said. As far as this bill itself is concerned, he's talking about a few things. We have been hearing some praises about how Serbia is a country where investment flourishes, however, according to what they tell you from the European Union, Serbia is a country in which there is not a rule of law, but a rule of law. You have been forced by the European Union to bring this authentic interpretation, in order to enable not the highest, not the most efficient and best possible, but any possibility of legal protection of the bidders, because, as you yourself find in the document for which you will vote, as EU representatives have found, legal protection has been completely lagging behind in this case. You know what we from the Serbian Radical Party think of the EU. EU representatives are openly telling you, and that is what we recently heard, that Serbia will enter the EU in the ideal scenario in 2027. However, we also know that there is no ideal scenario when it comes to Serbia, because there will always be new conditions, because there will always be new requirements, and as long as you are serviced, as much as you are required to meet, they will just welcome you a new one, because you are used to EU representatives only if they pressure you hard enough, if they ask you for long enough, that you will eventually give up, that you will meet all their requirements, not taking care of what impact they will have on the citizens of Serbia, whether it is in the interest of our country and our citizens. We've been listening to you say that, well, there's supposed to be control, but we haven't heard an explanation why until today, that control wasn't there? In order to make it clearer for Serbian citizens, the European Union, in addition to many of the negative things it does for Serbia, sometimes do something good. Here, in this case, you can say that it is good, because the European Union is practically forcing you to apply public procurement procedures, so that, if you want to fool around, then you have to make a little effort to do it and at least formally give the various bidders the opportunity to participate in some procedure and, at least formally, make it possible to make sure that if one of the bidders is not satisfied and thinks he is damaged during some public procurement, that he has the opportunity to complain to someone. So far, believe it or not, this was not possible, because as you say, the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures has rejected the requirements for the protection of rights because it considers that its jurisdiction can only be provided for by law and the envisaged international contract, therefore, by the Act of the National Assembly, not recognising those financial contracts as having provided for its jurisdiction to resolve rights requirements. What's this all about, simplifying? In the loan contracts that the Republic of Serbia concluded with the European Investment Bank, you also had a problem with this tender protection process, so you brought a change in the law some time ago, and this was passed on 24.11.2017, so almost two years ago, and there you were, by amendments and additions to Article 6 of point 04 of each of these financial contracts, predicting that the procurement process, meaning, an additional sentence with the next text, would be made available to any party that had an interest in obtaining a certain contract and which was damaged or risk being damaged by the alleged violation. So, the European Investment Bank insists and has forced you to at least formally provide any means of protection. You did so in those cases where the European Investment Bank is a lender, and the Republic of Serbia is a formal borrower, although it has often taken these loans practically for other users, but in these cases the Law on the Confirmation of such contracts in the National Assembly was passed. Now, we have another situation where the borrower is not even formally the Republic of Serbia, but it is some other legal entities, for example, such as Flight Control, where the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights is then in public procurement procedures when public procurement is being called, so it's being set up, and then someone complains that it's been done to him because he couldn't get a certain job. He has no one to complain to. He speaks well to the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights, and they say - we are not in charge. Who in the state is in charge of such cases? It's nobody. Such a situation, such as a legal vacuum, such a possibility of thieving, so when there's no control, then it's clear to you that anyone can do what they want. It's been years. The European Union eventually reacted by suspending funds under these financial contracts and saying – if there is no effective legal control or worse in this case, if there is no control of public procurement, we will no longer pay for financial resources, and therefore, in Serbia, many of the works have stopped, they could not continue to take place. You've been thinking about how to come up with that solution, because it's one situation where the borrower is the Republic of Serbia and when these loans are part of the public debt of the Republic of Serbia, and it's a completely different legal situation when the borrower is someone else, like the above-mentioned Flight Control or some other institutions. What did you do? In my opinion, this is a complete legal nonsens. You have adopted an authentic interpretation of the law confirming contracts between the European Investment Bank and the Republic of Serbia and said that a member of that law is understood so that the provisions of the contract between Serbia and the European Investment Bank will be applied to contracts between the European Investment Bank and other users in Serbia. That's completely pointless. So, you have determined that contracts, contract provisions between two legal entities apply to contracts that that legal entity, in this case the European Investment Bank, concludes with someone else. Look, it's a legal nonsens, so I don't use other words and harder words. I'm not saying that it wasn't necessary to put in place control, I'm not saying that public procurement procedures don't require the possibility that one who's not satisfied with a number of marriquettes have someone to complain to, but you couldn't do it this way. Imagine a contract here between the two vice-presidents of the National Assembly, and then the National Assembly brings authentic interpretation and says, the contract signed by these two will also apply to the third vice-president of the National Assembly. Is this possible to survive in the legal system and can contractual relations between two legal entities be bound by a third legal entity which has not participated in those contracts? I absolutely can't. You're making some kind of legal galamatias, doing some kind of miracle and trying to fill your form, but as you usually do, you've completely missed the point. Because you can tell by other things. When the Republic of Serbia signed a contract with Bechtel to build the so-called "Bechtel". The 120km forest corridor for 800,000 euros, which is overcharged by the price, which is a huge theft, there is a minimum of 300,000 euros, perhaps more, to save that job was not done by the US-based Bechtel, but, for example, by Chinese companies that have shown extremely well, all the works they had done perfectly, were done in time and were done at the lowest prices. We warned from the SRS a year before that that Zorana Mihajlovic favored "Behtel" and it was known in advance that the contract would receive "Behtel" and at that great price. She regularly replied to us in the congregation that that was not true, how we could talk ahead of time about who would win, as we know it. Finally, public procurement, and the sole bidder Bechtel, the price of the one we said, 800m euros. So it was all known a year in advance. We informed the citizens of Serbia, but not even because it would sometimes be a reason to give up on the thief when a certain thief broke in advance, but to this extent, certain ministers in the government of the Republic of Serbia led by Zoran Mihajlovic, that even those warnings by the representatives of the citizens absolutely meant nothing, and she ended the job and that robbery. How high the price is also the fact that, for example, the highway through the Sićevačka gorge, 100km will cost 480m euros, so the minority is twice as cheap even though the terrain is more comparable than in the Shumadian Corridor. Now, who of you can stand up and say, here's more difficult to build through the Forest than it is through the Sitch ravine. This shows you, gentlemen, that you continue to worry only about the form, and that the essence is completely lagging behind and that it shows that those from the EU alone are asking you to fulfill the form, not in their best interests of Serbia's citizens' lives, they did not say to prevent the robbery, but insist that this looting of Serbian citizens be given a certain form, that the legal possibility of any protection. We're absolutely sure, the result will be the same as it's been so far. None of these bidders, who complains, especially in these large, million-euro jobs and jobs, where your commissions are also measured by tens and hundreds of millions of euros. Never will the Republic Commission for the Protection of Public Procurement take down these public procurements, I am sure, because in Serbia today it is unimaginable that the Republic Commission, imagine, knock down, e.g. that public procurement where Zorana Mihajlovic gave Bechtel a 800m-euro job, where the net profit will be at least 50% of that amount. Can anyone imagine such a tender, or such a public procurement in Serbia, falling? He can't. Neither can you, nor can anyone serious. It is the best possible indicator of the state of the institutions in Serbia and the absence of the rule of law in Serbia. In normal countries, there would never be a need for such a radical authentic interpretation to be brought, because this is legally speaking nakaradically. This is legal nonsens, complete. So, you rather than edit the system, so that the public procurement control system is good and efficient, and you reach for a Lex specialis, this is a Lex specialis, so that you try to fill in some form so that those of the EU can pat you on the shoulder and say, it's nice that you've done that theft, but now that theft has some form. You, see how much the EU takes care of the interests of Serbian citizens. They lead, first of all, about their firms. We need them, above all, as a market for their products, to place their loans and to leave Serbia the most capable, most educated, those who can contribute the most and instead build their country and their economy, to benefit Germany and other highly developed European countries, but in the first place Germany. See how the EU reacted when the signing of a free trade agreement with the countries of the Euro-Asian Union was announced. Hysterical. Why? Shouldn't there be free flow of goods, not only within the EU, but also with other countries of the world? Why would they mind such a contract? Why would they mind that the Republic of Serbia produces and exports to the market of 180 million people, without any restrictions? Isn't that something you should say hello to? It is, and it will greet anyone who is well-intentioned. But the EU takes care of itself, first of all, of its companies, of its market. They say -- well, wait, we're not interested in Serbia developing, we're not interested in making Serbia economically stronger. Then they won't run away young, then they won't run away educated, then they won't run away from the professors of the University of Germany, or some other country to work for them. It is in our interest, or the EU is in the interest of Serbia being as poor as possible, to rule in every part of society as much chaos as possible, because only in this system will they be able to choose who individual of Serbian citizens wants to rip out of their homeland and take them there to work, and who can do it here, to stay, to possibly mop cables, or produce underwear, nylon socks, which we did many, many, many years ago. So, something good will never come from the EU to Serbia, they will never support what will essentially bring a better life to Serbian citizens. The best possible indicator is that in 2019, full 19 years since Serbia is ruled by non-domestic pro-European regimes, which is extremely difficult to live in, reducing the number of unemployed, not because new jobs are being created, but because a huge number of people are leaving Serbia. This is an indication that we must finally give up the delusions of the European Union. The sooner that mind comes, the sooner we do it, the better it will be for the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-18-0.u60967	Thank you, Mr. Sarovic. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-18-0.u60968	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have heard in the debate so far and from the representatives of the promoter, Mr Komlenski, but also from the authorised representative of the SNS, Mrs Tomic, why this proposal on the agenda is important today, so the proposal for an authentic interpretation of the provision of Article 2. The law confirming the treaty on changes and additions of financial contracts between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank. I don't think I have to mention the importance of financial contracts that are Serbia as a borrower and the European Investment Bank as a lender, concluded, which relate to projects: Clinical Centres A, Clinical Centres B, municipal and regional infrastructure, Corridor 10 highway, research and development in the public sector, School Modernisation Programme, Corridor 10, Phase I highway, "Improvement of Justice Authorities B" and rehabilitation and road safety. All these projects are very important for Serbia's development, for the economic growth of new investment, for GDP growth, for better living standards for citizens, for higher wages, for higher pensions. It is therefore extremely important that this authentic interpretation removes all of those possible ambiguities and doubts that may arise in the application of this provision. While we are today dealing with financial contracts concerning both road and traffic infrastructures, municipal infrastructure, investment projects in schools, reconstruction of schools, hospitals, kindergartens and other capital investments, Đilas, Jeremic, Obradovic and other gentlemen from the Alliance for Serbia are engaged in the construction of affairs, the placement of lies, inventions against Nebojsa Stefanovic, Father Nebojs Stefanovic, Aleksandr Vukić, who is their daily target, and others from SNS. And yesterday, but here we are today witnessing what it looks like in practice. Gilas, as commander-in-chief, that the warrant and then all of them, by command, are going to repeat the same story by the same matrix, both Bosko and Jeremic and everyone else. So these are statements, press conferences, statements every day. Then, competent institutions, state institutions react, deny, provide the most concrete information and evidence, but there's no room for that in their media. The "Krusik" thing that came out, the free that the Department of Defense answered, the free that they gave away the whole retrospective detail and all the information in that sense. That's not the point for them. The topic is just what Vuk Jeremic said, what Bosko Obradovic said, what Dragan Djilas and these students, Lutovac student, Marinika Tepic student, Srdjan Milivojevic student and so on. There they are, that happy group. There they are. They're all here. Someone would say, a big happy family. Well, it's not big, it's not happy, and it's even less family. What's their policy? What's their policy all these years? For years, they ran away from the idea of an emergency election. So they prayed to God for years just so there wouldn't be an emergency election. Now that we've come close to regular elections, the elections the law prescribes must be held within a certain time limit, now we're going to declare a boycott. What else can I do? To congratulate Wolfie on winning, to congratulate the SNS on winning? We'll hardly live to see it from them. They are aware that the elections absolutely cannot deliver any decent result, and that is why they have declared a boycott and, how can I say, it is the pre-prepared alibi for the electoral debacle that awaits them, and Dragan Gilas and all those in that unfortunate alliance for Serbia know it well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-18-0.u60969	Thank you, colleague Markovic. The word has been made by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-18-0.u60970	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As we can see today, as in previous years, as in all these years since 2000, when Serbia is ruled by so-called. Pro-European governments, especially those that have pro-European evolution in the meantime, are always spoken only in the present time and when something comes to our agenda, only praises about what and how it will be done, repeats 50 times the same floscule – here, we build, we work, that when we try and legally deny them, we tear them apart into tiny parampars and parts and legal and professional and political, and then those famous counter-species of the ruling majority move, especially the media ministers we can't answer, that we don't want highways, that we don't want a clinical centre, that we don't want schools. No, gentlemen, we want it how we want it, but we want it to be without a robbery and that Serbia's citizens benefit from it. Here's what it is when you vote here something that's pure theft, how it happens to Serbian citizens afterwards, and Serbian citizens, unfortunately, are not familiar with it. A while ago, my colleague mentioned the problem, for example, as you wish, of Bechtel and Moravski Corridor, whose price was more than 300m euros from the project, the same project that existed in 2013, six years ago, when it was given to the Chinese company and you voted here for one proud minister, Zorana Mihajlovic, who learned to live on a high foot, to post-traumatically raise that price and for who knows which time you brought a Lex specialis for the construction of this highway, and who knows which way out of force you put the general law. Why if it's all clear? How contradictory you are to say and the fact that he was a very high party official when he was president of the Assembly, quote, December 23, 2012, the day before the law entered the Assembly, then the new Public Procurement Act, said: by adopting the Law on Public Procurement, Serbia saves between 600 million and a billion euros a year. This is what Serbian citizens should hear. So, during the progressive government and today's law, you've saved up to a billion euros a year. That means you currently have eight billion euros in savings. Is that true? Is eight billion euros in the budget just according to this bill, saved and when we're going to see, because you're not passing the Final Account Act, when that Final Account Act comes, to see where you are, the eight billion that you've reportedly saved, what have you spent it on, what have you focused on? Do you know how many kilometers of highways it is, how many schools it is, the hospital because of the false promise you made to the citizens of Serbia, or did you save it, and the money is gone? Someone's lying here. Let's see next what you said when you passed that law. Direct contracts have been completely disabled. Watch out, disabling direct contracts? How can you not be ashamed? Then how did you vote for Lex specialis Zorana Mihajlović and give her the right to direct contracts? Are you aware that this procedure put this law out of force, the general law? You've lifted it. What's next for you to vote on? You want to be one of those Bodrum guys again? I understand you've taken over their ideologies and personnel and their way of doing things in the congregation. What's next after Bodrum? Thessalonica or maybe it's closer to someone if he's in Munich right now, so he's following the game? What's next? There's a lex specialis coming in, bring it in. You're stealing Serbian citizens. Where have eight billion euros since you passed the Public Procurement Act? When will you deliver the account of the eight billion euros? He further says in your statement -- no one will be able to negotiate directly for the money of Serbian citizens in public procurement. Well, whose is Zorana Mihajlovic? I realize it's Labus', I realize it's G17, I realize that Mladjana Dinkic is, but now it's your... (The Faith of Radeta: Scotts.) )......................................................................................................... And Scott. Although Scott's officially gone. Although you're Scotts, too, because you make such laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-18-0.u60971	Comrade Damjanovic, I understand the passion of the struggle and that you are the man who brings it into political speech and here in the debate in parliament, but don't insult us all here. You're insulting your fellow MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-18-0.u60972	How? U.S. Ambassador Scott.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-18-0.u60973	Well, I can't let you, really. I think it's your turn to apologize.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-18-0.u60974	No, not at all. I said...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-18-0.u60975	You can talk about anything here, but it's not right. It's not right for you to insult us all here.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-18-0.u60976	I didn't say they were...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-18-0.u60977	I didn't expect you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-18-0.u60978	Mr. Marinkovic, what did I say? Here, I'll make amends - and you're members of the team of US Ambassador Scott. Can you do that? Thank you. Let me get on with it. You say further in your statement about the law that you will no longer steal Serbian citizens, and you have continued even more brutally, even stronger. It is also impossible to create an annex contract that will not go to a public tender, because this is how public money was misused. That's right. Was he being abused during the DS? Yes, it is. Well, why did you carry on with the same principle? The law you've passed, put it out of force, abolished. Let's move on. The main goal, according to then, is the president of the Progressive Assembly, the law is an effective use of public funds by prescribing clear procedures for the award of public contracts and mechanisms to prevent corruption and the security of competition. Now, watch this. There's no competition. What competition? What was the competition? Who did you allow to compete? Corruption is never bigger. What happens when you bring in a lex specialis looking for Zorana Mihajlović, and you can't think for yourself, but you have to vote? Let's go through some of Serbia's highways. It says this, toll collection for Belgrade – Paracino, 200km, 420 dinars. Toll collection Belgrade – Cačak, 109km, 420 dinars. What kind of math? What abduction from Serbian citizens? Is that the 300 million to make up or how many millions that got into that asphalt? Now, gentlemen who earn are often called upon by European countries. Let's do a parallel with a single country that has, let's say, a standard only ten times that of Serbia and something more, much more, but let's say ten times, and it has significantly more kilometers of highways. Here's an example of Switzerland. There's wine on the annual level, they've got about, if I'm not mistaken, something over 1,900 kilometers of highways, an annual amount of vignette, so you're using all the time, 365 days a year, unlimited from 0 to 24 hours, you know what it costs? Forty francs or 4,000 dinars. It costs so much in the country one at an annual level where the standard is at least 10 times higher than in Serbia. This means that a parallel somewhere should be 400 dinars per year in Serbia and would then accept such praises of the ruling set if they brought to that level and reached that level. E can't because in this country, every American ambassador finds one of his "christ", which here determines how and how to pump up the money of Serbian citizens. Then the question arises, after Michael Scott, whose name is Zoranina, who will be next after Zorana, who is next to Scott or some new Scott who will meet these conditions and pump up the money of Serbian citizens? With these receipts 100 kilometers - 420 dinars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-18-0.u60979	Thank you, colleague Damjanovic. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Markovic. Here's a colleague, Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-18-0.u60980	I thank the chairman. Article 106, although I was able to advertise other members, which speaks of the speaker being able to only talk about what is the agenda point. I can have an understanding, in part, of the obsession of Zorana Mihajlovic by the previous speaker, but also of some speakers from his parliamentary group, but what I don't understand is that for that part of the exposure when some savings were mentioned, some millions, so billions, so all the man who could mix, mixed. He's mixed up the numbers and numbers and everything, but while we're on the subject of savings, I have to say, well, these are the savings we're in today so we can raise salaries for public sector employees. Just these savings, we're in a situation today so we can raise our pensions. In doing so, I also think of one-time increases, but I also think of regular pension increases. I also think of the increase in minimum earnings that is almost twice as high today as it was at a time when some others managed Serbia. Is it enough? I'm not saying it is, but it's twice as big as it was while Gilas and the others ruled Serbia. I mean building highways, that's where I mean traffic, road infrastructure, that's where I mean reconstruction and roads and schools and bridges and hospitals and kindergartens. This is how the government, whose head is the SNS, is led by Aleksandar Vukic. The political culture of the previous speaker, who was mayor of the party in the city's elections, was best said by citizens of Belgrade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-18-0.u60981	Thank you, colleague Markovic. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (Alexander Markovic: No. No, no, no, Injury of the Rules of Procedure, the Belief of Radeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-18-0.u60982	Thank you for understanding, Mr Marinkovic, that you allow the violation of the Rules of Procedure to actually be replicated to another MP and we will, of course, use it, your goodwill today. I'm talking about article 27. Indeed, whether a man laughs or reacts that someone who talks about this authentic interpretation does not mention in one word the title of that point, but talks about Gilas, Obradovic, Vuk Jeremic, the incursion there - here, etc. And someone like that picks up afterwards and says Zorana Mihajlovic is not on the agenda. All that matters about the ministry and that part of the job is Zorana Mihajlovic. It is true that when we warned the public since October last year, first of all, and all of you, so you all jumped together to react, to defend Zorana Mihajlović, when we said that they would take 300m euros because the job would get "Behtel", then Zorana Mihajlovic says – you radically, that you had nothing to talk about, you make up, it's not true, it won't happen. She insulted us in every way possible, chairing it with attention listening and probably sharing her opinion. Now because we're asking why, what do you say now that 12 days ago the news that "Bechtel" really got that job, really at that price that we made public in October last year? What's wrong with you? Or be silent, say, they are right; you will not admit it publicly, but at least keep quiet, do not continue to defend it unwarrantedly. We don't mind your discussion of whatever you want to talk about, but put a little reality into it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-18-0.u60983	Thank you, colleague Radeta. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (Miss Radeta: No.) No, thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Ljiljana Malusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-18-0.u60984	Thank you, Chairman. Article 107 has been injured. The speaker at the National Assembly session is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. You know, talking about a party that received 55% of citizens in previous parliamentary elections that "cots" are embarrassing. The shame, the opposition that is not present today, calls us "sands", "bots", "idiots", thank them, "toothless", "credentials", "we are not intellectuals". We're top intellectuals, number one. Two, here there are, all the people who are here have colleges, master's degree, they end up, as they say, pissed off, never told me I was a "cot" or I was. So, they're all done, they've got PhDs. We have ten doctors of science. It's a shame in high school. We agreed not to perform like that. No one here is a bastard. We can exchange arguments, we have the right to talk about whatever we want, everyone's in the dark, but add something to your party's ratings. You honor us not to do anything? We've passed over 600 laws since 2012. We made reforms that were painful. Thanks to that, we have a salary increase, we renovate schools, we build bridges, we make hospitals, we make roads. We'll do four highways, please. For the first time in Serbia's history, we have already completed Corridor 10. What are you talking about? We do it all the time. Thanks to Mr. Vukic's respectability, charisma, intelligence, we've brought in powerful investors. It means it's a much better climate. Someone says -- why are you just focusing on the EU? That's not true. We work with Chinese banks. If someone was reading what we read, when we read the laws, they should learn that they gave 450 million for a share of the road from Preljina to Požega. So these are Chinese investors. Well, Russian investors. Please don't insult us anymore. It's no use. This is a tall home, I know the opposition has its arguments and it's totally fine, but don't say anything that isn't true. When did we vote from Bodrum? Never. When are we going to vote from anywhere but the Parliament, from the tide? Never. It's what people who do, who don't all get 10% together today. We currently have a 53% rating. Thank you. I could do a lot more. There's no point.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-18-0.u60985	Thank you. I suppose you don't want the National Assembly to declare itself in voting day, but I have to ask you? (Ljiljana Malušić: No. Thank you. The Belief of Radet, the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-18-0.u60986	Article 32. What my colleague said could happen to anyone else, but she boasts of a coworker to build highways. Of course, we don't mind the highways being built, but it bothers us, let's just say, what happened in Gredella after the second day of the car crash. It bothers us that this highway, this section is the last one that's open, really everyone who's been passing is saying great highway, but we don't mind why it's only two years off the highway, because now you're washing the machine if you're buying a warranty is five years. It bothers us that part of the Moravia Corridor from Preljina to Požega plans to be built without a building permit, without expropriating a single meter of square land where that highway passes. We have a problem with these specific things. In fact, we draw attention to them. A colleague's name is Ljiljana, and if someone supports everything she says and so on, it's normal to say, they're lilies. There, so in the jargon. So also those who support Scott, it's normal to say -- those Scotts. I don't understand, it's not really, you don't have to interrupt me, really, I didn't mean anything by it, but just what... I didn't mean to interrupt. He's not Scott, he's Scott. No, no, it's not, it's Scott. It doesn't matter. But there's no reason to intervene in this way and then say that same colleague, who defends me, I don't know who or who he says, and thinks about the MPs of the SRS, that someone was reading, should learn etc. Well, you can tell us whatever you want, except you can't tell us we're Scotts and you can't tell us we're not reading and you can't tell us we don't know anything. You may disagree politically with that, but I am now calling all MPs who will vote for this authentic interpretation, here's the press when they come out, let them ask them out, let them say the title of the exact agenda I'm talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-18-0.u60987	Thank you. And you know we all respect you, so I don't see anything controversial. And I don't really know now this advertising of violations of the Rules of Procedure regarding Article 32 has anything to do with the powers of vice presidents of the National Assembly. (The Faith of Radeta: Well, I'm helping you.) You're helping me? Thank you for your help. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (Miss Radeta: No.) Thank you. Does anyone else want to hurt the Rules of Procedure? Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-18-0.u60988	Here, Mr. Marinkovic, I have volunteered to protect you, first of all, in accordance with Article 27, which determines the way the chairman should be chairing the session. You were just attacked by representatives of the ruling parties and spoke about some things that were not discussed in the previous course of the debate. If you often point out that the chairman is the one who can hurt the Rules of Procedure, it is absolutely clear that you have not hurt him, because you have nothing that Mrs Malusic talked about, you have not spoken of any of it and it is absolutely absurd to accuse you of breaking the Rules of Procedure. You've allowed one debate, I'd say constructively, in democratic coverage, and we don't have a problem, just to clarify that, by building a highway. You know, it's good when a 120km highway is built, but it's not good when 800m euros are paid, because instead of 120km, another 100km could have been built, that the public procurement process was going the right way, that it was going in accordance with the law, that there was an opportunity for bidders to complain and protect their rights and that you didn't bring a Lex specialis to allow Zorana Mihajlovic to direct contract to determine who would do the job. Now, that's what's bothering us. Then why don't you end the whole Public Procurement Act? Because, you'll admit, you need a public procurement law when you're getting toilet paper worth several thousand euros, but when you close the business of building a 120km highway, then you don't need a public procurement. Public procurement is so much more necessary if the job is bigger and more expensive.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-18-0.u60989	Thank you, Mr. Sarovic. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? Nemanja Sarovic: Yes. Yes. Thank you. The right to the replica has been waiting for a long time, Dr. Orlic. Here you go, Doctor Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-18-0.u60990	We're told that we're stealing people and we're told a lot more along the way in a manner of direct insults, as much as someone pretends to be funny, that they can play with words, it's about direct insults. I must confess, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, I was convinced that Bosko Obradovic boycotts the tide, that Bosko Obradovic will not come to the sessions, and then stands up there somewhere in Bosko Obradović and does what Bosko Obradović does, point the finger at us and says - you steal the people. Say all the insults he could come up with or deliver to him, who otherwise delivers material to Bosko Obradovic - Gilas Dragan. He says you're stealing people, and we say, building clinical centres. Let him explain to that people Bosko Obradovic or the sender, or if there is a third question, I am not able to find any difference between them now, why is it not good that Serbia has clinical centres where it did not have them? We say construction of highways. Let him explain to Serbian citizens that it is not in their interest to have highways that have waited over 70 years. We say construction of municipal and regional infrastructure. Let Bosko Obradovic explain to the citizens of Serbia why they do not need everything they could for decades only dream of, and which, of course, they never wanted to be given to them by members of the former regime, headed by Dragan Djilas, and all those who went hand in hand with them and who were financed by that Dragan Djilas by various administrative, supervisory committees funded by the same society today, works in one of the Belgrade municipalities. They say it bothers them when special legislation regulates something important for Serbian citizens. Does that mean they're telling us they're getting in the way of building South Stream? Have they changed their minds and no longer supported this project? Let it explain that to the citizens of Serbia, because it is precisely a special law and that solution that has been introduced. They say they're bothered by what we've also introduced to special laws as a solution, as far as the Ironworks are concerned in Smedereva. That's great if they changed their minds. Let them go and explain to the citizens of that part of Serbia that it is not good for them to have Jelizara working for them, that it is not good for them to have 5,000 families on the table, but rather they seem to advocate what Gilas and his other experts have been propagating, to shut it down and to have people thrown out on the street, as they were only able to do. Who sends such messages and who is counting on us with this manner of insult of Bosko Obradovic, that we do not lie, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, this and can expect the political happiness that a Bosko Obradovic experienced and how much tomorrow he expects to remain in political terms relevant to how much Bosko Obradović and that it shows that, since we are talking about reading, everything he has always read, as well as how much he can read Bosko Obradović, and since we are talking about knowledge and understanding, that he also shows that knowledge and understanding has as much as one Bosko Obradović, that tomorrow, as well as this Bosko Obradović, will be alone as a hive and perhaps happy to provide himself with some new suit from Dragan Djilas, but the support of the people will have no cure, just as much as Bosko Obradović. And to simplify things, the last sentence. Let's get him to the big finale. There's that Bosko tent and Gilas tent. He's at the rectory right now. Let those who share their style, their manners and their policy of brutal accusations at the expense of not only the SNS, but all Serbian citizens, join them in their great successes. It's not for the better.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-18-0.u60991	Thank you, Dr. Orlic. The right to replica has Miljan Damjanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-18-0.u60992	Thank you. Here's another proof that when representatives of the ruling majority don't listen, or have the opportunity to say something cleverly, to replicate, then, of course, they serve false things. I'm sorry if SNS MPs don't know what an adjective is. If someone tells me I'm Putinov, then it's commendation, because I'm only going to the Russian embassy, I'm not going to American, or taking pictures with the American ambassador. It's an adjective who's whose. I can't make up names or last names. There was one and the Chancellor of Austria who was almost coming while he was an Chancellor. Well, what was I supposed to say - Chancellor Chancellor? He has a name and a last name, like I have a name and a last name. If the only thing that offended them in my presentation was my own adjective, and everything else is accepted, then he's saying I hit the target. If I had talked about it since here, those who attacked me verbally, comparing me to some political dilettante that they in Novi Sad in 2013 protested against Bojan Pajtic, with Boška Obradic, personally SNS and DSS, they introduced Boška Obradovic to the Assembly, although Bosko Obradovic did not cross the censorship. This is about a terrible replacement of thesis. You're attacking me for helping Bosko Obradovic. Well, you have a serious problem. I can't help you, I'm not a doctor, really. Now there's another thing I have to answer. Someone's trying to honor Dragan Gilas again. Dragan Gilas, at the end of the 1990s, was not the president of the Kosovo Union of Serbia, was not a candidate for mayor of the SRS. Yeah, I'm proud to say I was the mayor of the SRS because I didn't change parties. It's my only party, and it's gonna be the rest of my life, the SRS, and they're supposed to be candidates, Dragan Gilas. They opened the Zemun Bridge with Dragan Gilas – Borca Bridge, look at the photos, look at the interviews, hand in hand with SNS President and SNS officials with Dragan Gilas.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-18-0.u60993	Thank you. The word has Vladimir Orlic, right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-18-0.u60994	We hear nothing new when Bosko Obradovic told us that he would like to be Putinov and that he wants Serbian citizens to consider him Putinov. However, it is weakly drinking water and it is quite clear. It is clear to the citizens of Serbia that Bosko Obradovic would like to do so, even personally, to stand up for that kind of belonging, i.e. taking sides, so he also tried to explain to Vladimir Putin himself something by hand that he wrote a letter to explain things to him, because he knows everything best in the world and sees much better than Vladimir Putin himself. However, the facts are inexorable. Serbia today has the best relations it has in history. If you want to take a look at any period, it can be in the '90s, it can also be the period of Dragan Gilas for which I see Bosko Obradovic and similar to him today longing, but you will never find examples that Serbia had this level of relationship with the Russian Federation as it does today, even with her president himself, if you want to. It was not Alexander Nevsky's order that arrived to Gilas, nor to his various Obradovics, but to Alexander Vukic, who said something after a century of waiting, that kind of recognition came to Serbia, and it is known why. Because today Serbia is also serious about its friends in the world, but also about itself and its own needs, and no one should be angry when people remind him that they do not see him either as Putin, nor as I do not know whose, but also always just as he is in his nature, as Gilasov. I only suggested, with congratulations, that someone had ordered himself to be politically relevant to how much one Bosko Obradovic, that he would build his political charisma and relevance using Bosko Obradovic's method. For all of this, I simply congratulate, everyone has the right to that kind of life wisdom. I suggest we simplify things, not to waste any time or energy, but to immediately move on to the results that this kind of action can only provide, to join Gilas in that tent outside the Dictionary, because as long as it can't be traced away by tomorrow, it's going to be necessary for them to see him again and look for him all over the country. I wanted to be of some help in the organisational sense, in this respect, and how much luck there is, so that knows best every Bosko Obradovic, I don't have to explain it to him.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-18-0.u60995	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Verica Radet, the violation of the Rules of Procedure, and you, Mr Damjanovic, have no basis for replication. I'd love to, and I just gave you this one, didn't mention you, didn't mention the SRS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-18-0.u60996	We're used to Serbian radicals saying a lot of things to us, and that we're like this, that we're like this, but there's something that's a big insult to us, and that's why I'm advertising Article 107. No Serbian radicals and none of us can connect with any tents, any civil protests, any violent destruction of power. Among you gentlemen, the ones who crashed on October 5th are sitting. It's unacceptable, so you can say that we're the worst, you can say that we're crazy, stupid, whatever you want, but you can't tell us that we've ever been in any way other than what's democratic, to fight any government, any regime. We say that Serbian radicals will fight in the elections and we always say that. We always recognize the election result, we make remarks, if we have concrete contact with the Constitutional Court, which is mostly always in the role of protectors of the regime, but whatever. We are an extremely democratic party and no one can deny it, because it is true, and whoever was under the tents, who sat on the Styrofoam, who participated, I say, in the burning of the Assembly, etc., so now is part of the ruling majority, you see it between you. Don't get us involved in anything like that. We can not like each other individually, we can as a party that you don't like, you can have such or such objections to our debate, as we do to you, and that is democratic, and that is legitimate and such a struggle we always accept. Please don't attribute anything to us that could never go by the name of the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-18-0.u60997	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (No) The word has the people's messenger Vladimir Orlic, the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-18-0.u60998	Since Article 104, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I address you, Mr. Chairman, regulates the right to replication, and this was actually that, I wanted to point out a few things about Article 104. Of course, when it comes to democratic participation in the elections, we can always agree on that. That's not at all controversial. It's one of the messages we send from this room, but not just from this room, the only way to compete politically. So, there's no right way of taking power, there's no right way of exorcising street justice, there's no right way of breaking other people's heads or destroying other people's property. So, all that they really do and what they promote as some value, that Đilas, that Jeremic and that Bosko Obradovic, whom I have mentioned several times today, it's all just not good. This is completely wrong, and it is considered by the rest of the people in Serbia. There shouldn't be any doubt about it between us. The choices are the right way. In these elections, they'll have to compete in good things, to explain, among other things, whether they're pointless, I think they're pointless, the accusations that we're stealing people. With what? By ensuring what this people and our common state need for decades, by stealing what you imagine is increasing wages and pensions in Serbia. I think that's what these elections are going to have to do, and maybe before and after, it's not a question, it's always important issues, it's a serious debate. I am sure that in this debate the arguments are on our side, on the side of the policy of Alexander Vukic which will provide, you will see very quickly with your eyes, that the average salary in Serbia is 500 euros. Everything they said would never be, reality would be. That policy also provided the highways that people dreamed of for decades and generations. This policy provided hundreds of factories that provided hundreds of thousands of new jobs. In these things, they will have to compete and, among other things, they will gain or will not gain citizens' trust. In line with that, someone will either be able to take care of Serbia tomorrow or they won't be able to take care of it. To make anyone successful, you know what one of the necessary preconditions is? That there are in its performance, in its political functioning and messages that I send in this hall and elsewhere, as few elements of Boška Obradovica. That's what I wanted to say. I'm not asking to vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-18-0.u60999	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's Messenger, the Prophet of Rade, the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-18-0.u61000	Injury of Article 27. Of course, I'll use it as a replica, just like my colleague did before. Thank you for allowing it, that's very nice.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-18-0.u61001	You could've asked for it without a problem. I don't know why you didn't ask for a replica last time.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-18-0.u61002	Because I wanted to now. I don't know what the problem is.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-18-0.u61003	You have no right to a replica now.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-18-0.u61004	I'm right.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-18-0.u61005	I won't really allow it until the end of the day. We're so far away from the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-18-0.u61006	A colleague of Marinkovic's...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-18-0.u61007	... It doesn't make sense. It also has this democratic and my relationship and the capacity of some red line.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-18-0.u61008	Comrade Marinkovic, allow yourself, be one of those democratic capacities, so that you can apply the strict application of the Rules of Procedure to an MP, an MP of power. It's ugly that you're doing this to us from the opposition. Here, when I'm done, tell me there's no more after that. He says that we will compete in front of the citizens of Serbia in proving this or that, of course, we will spend all this time and all these years here just explaining to the citizens of Serbia who are the faults of this government, which is what we, as someone who wants to participate in the future government, are offering to the people. We don't know the second term. If the undisputed Bechtel from Serbia's budget was taken 300m euros more than was necessary. We really, here's our limited brain, there's no other expression than taken from the budget. Here, we don't know the second term. Enlighten us so you tell us which other expression to use. You're talking about the government's successes about a minimal who's twice as big as someone 10 years ago, and you were twice as young back then. You can't. The minimum is 30,022 dinars. Minimum consumer basket 37,000. You say you skipped that magic number. We're just asking, give that magic number how to replace those 7,000 dinars to satisfy that minimum consumer basket. Here, just, with this sentence, I'm done. That profit when there's 500 euros that you've been talking about, you've been announcing for two years. Be patient, so when it comes to boasting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-18-0.u61009	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to come forward in voting day? Vladimir Orlic, please. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-18-0.u61010	Let me help you out a little bit, Member 108, since there was a consistent application of the measure. That article 108 was regulated. I'm not asking you to make any further statements about it, I just wanted to be constructive in this debate, and by the way, to point out. As for these receipts, which you are really looking at today, are already significantly better, because you know today's 470 euros in average wages in Serbia is significantly better than 320 and some euros, which was the result of these Gilas, Jeremic, Tadic and other members of the yellow company. It's something a man can congratulate on right now, he doesn't have to wait for anything. It is a valuable result and anyone with good intentions wants to say – it is good and congratulations on this because I know how hard it has been to do, but for 500 euros it won't have to wait as long as some may think. For those 500 euros, we had a promise just from these benches. The former regime's members said it wasn't that long ago -- it'll never be. They were so convinced that they would never say they were here, it's recorded in the stenogram – if ever that happens, you've earned the advances, he deserves Vukic to have everyone vote for him. That's what we're going to remind everyone, them first. So these are the things that are facts today, such as the fact that if we're talking about minimum profit, it is, it's twice as big as a year ago. That's true, but covering the minimum consumer basket with a minimum profit, so here's anyone can calculate on their own, because 37,000 versus 30,000 coverage is more than 80%. Has there ever been anything like that? It wasn't. There wasn't, and if everyone wants to be honest, they'll see it was 70 percent at best. So it's also a kind of result, but which we say and about it everyone will be able to compete with us in any campaign, we don't have any problem. We say it's not enough, because we're not happy with what we accomplished yesterday. We will be pleased at the moment when really everything we have in front of us is to be satisfied and thus achieved that we can't figure out what else we could achieve new and good, and I don't believe that day will come. We will certainly continue to set ourselves new goals every day, and in this regard we say the goal is and you will see and there will be opportunities to congratulate ourselves, that the minimum consumer basket and the minimum profit will be equalized, that this coverage will reach 100%. Will they then be ready to congratulate on it? Will they then be willing to congratulate on these 500-euro salaries or on what will be even bigger. That's still a question today, first of all, for some others, but there's one thing that stands as an indisputable fact. Whoever respects these results, whoever wants to be honest and says Aleksandar Vukic and SNS have done good things for Serbia, can apply for trust with the people. The one who denies these things just risks people spreading their hands and telling this man how to trust anything if he asks me not to believe my own eyes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-18-0.u61011	Thank you, Dr. Orlic. Milorad Mircic answered, on what basis? (Milorad Mircic: President of the parliamentary group. You don't have a chance. He didn't even mention the MP's group. It really isn't, and we're so far away from this topic. We're talking about authentic interpretation, and now we're going to the economy. It's nothing controversial, but it's all about other things, and as far as I can tell, you can't get anywhere near the Bechtellas or the highways or anything. I'm just surprised that my colleague, Veronica Radeta, didn't ask for a replica. There was no need for any violations of the Rules of Procedure, but, well, we move on. I'm sorry, but there's gonna be an opportunity. The word is Milimir Vujadinović. (The Faith of Radet: Seek word as authorized after all the violations of the Rules of Procedure, is that the order? )
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-18-0.u61012	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues, the fact is that the EIB is one serious partner of Serbia, and in addition to this thesis, the data suggests that the EIB, i.e. that nearly 10 billion euros has been invested in Serbia today through the EIB. I think it is in the interest of the whole society to continue this trend and to remove all these possible misunderstandings that occur in the practical application of these contracts that we are talking about today. If you ask me for concrete reasons, I think they were best spoken of today by the opposition, inviting us to go through highways in Serbia. Namely, it is easy to pass through the highways in Serbia today whether we are talking about them as thematics in this respected home, whether we are passing vehicles through highways in Serbia. What is true, what the opposition said today is the fact that we have never again paid tolls in the Republic of Serbia. One true fact, but we never had more highways in the Republic of Serbia and God forbid we can pay even more tolls in more places in the next period in Serbia. That would mean more highways. I'll remind you why this fact that the opposition presented today is correct. Since 2014, more than 300km of highways have been built in Serbia and it has been completely renovated or built 2500km of highways. It is only the beginning, because bear in mind that the construction of the highway is under way from Obrenovac to Surcin, that the construction of the highway from Preljina to Požega is under way and that it is planned to build the highway from Preljina to Pojat and short shares, but very important from New Belgrade to Surčina. The plan is also to connect the i.e. the new Karadjordje Velika highway that will connect Shumadi and eastern Serbia. What are the final effects of this whole story? Greater investments, lower unemployment rates, higher average earnings, low inflation levels, and that is probably what affects every man's life in Serbia most directly today. Nor should these serious political effects stemming from this be forgotten, and it concerns, above all, the direct road or infrastructure integration of the Republic of Serbia with our people in the environment. First of all, with our people in Republika Srpska and Montenegro, which you will acknowledge is the eternal dream of our people to connect in any country, or administrative continent, they live today. For everything I've said, it's primarily the policy of whoever started this policy, today's President Alexander Vukic, but if you want to end up with the Government of the Resort Ministry, as I'm talking about him. In order for these trends to continue and for these facts, or these concrete effects to end, to be something better in the future, to say, more concrete and quality for the lives of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we will also support this authentic opinion that is in the debate today in this distinguished home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-18-0.u61013	Thank you. The word is Dragana Kostic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-18-0.u61014	Thank you, Chairman. We have had the opportunity to hear here today in the debate that it is part of the agenda, and this is a proposal to adopt an authentic interpretation, to resent us for comparing ourselves with European countries in what we have progressed. Should we not compare? Should we be in bankruptcy, like it was in 2012 and lucky we didn't experience that bankruptcy? Is it something bad that we are comparing ourselves with European countries? GDP growth, when compared to European countries, is third, is that for underestimation? I really don't understand people who want to degrade the successes of this government and our President, Alexander Vukic. They say we steal, that corruption is the biggest ever. So would foreign investors invest in this country? 2.32 billion euros were invested for the first seven months of direct foreign investment. That's 43% more than in the same period last year. Would someone invest in a country where corruption is at its highest level and where people, or the government, steal? Would IKEA exist here as a company that has really been questioning this market for years? It wouldn't be safe. But, well, it's an honor to them, and it's our job to work towards better conditions for Serbian citizens to live here and stay here. Of course, this and the surplus that we achieved in the Republic of Serbia's budget, that is 46.4 billion dinars, tells us how well this government is doing. Never in modern Serbia's history has there been a budget rebalancing due to surpluses, it has always been a deficit. Is that for neglect? Isn't that something to talk about today? It should be done anyway. But these contracts, financial agreements with the European Investment Bank, or the standard of living of Serbs and citizens of Serbia are certainly due. On how much we invest in this country we should also point out that it is particularly in health care, one of these contracts with the European Investment Bank is also for the reconstruction of health centres. The foundation stone for the Heritage 2 was laid. 43m euros were invested. Just to remind the citizens of Serbia, there was a magnet left for attracting foreign patients because we have a very good fit in that clinic. Then the KC Serbian Infectious Diseases Clinic is reconstructed with 20 million dinars. The reconstruction of the KC of Serbia, which has not been reconstructed since 1987, is now being reconstructed at 86,000 square metres. The value of these investment works is 110m euros. Is that supposed to be underestimated here by individuals now? No, it should be pointed out how much this government is working and how much our President Aleksandar Vukic has contributed to Serbia opening up to all the countries in the world, and not just to Europe, as some here today resent us. Of course this authentic interpretation of this Article 2. The agreement between the European Investment Bank and the Republic of Serbia to improve that suppliers who report for the implementation of these large investment works no longer complain that the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in the Public Procurement Procedure has its responsibilities, not as before, since the European Investment Bank has not recognised our legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-18-0.u61015	Thank you, colleague Kostic. The word has been given by MP Zoran Bojanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-18-0.u61016	Thank you, Your Honor. My colleagues and colleagues, at one point I was glad that this discussion would be delayed and that we would end this debate on authentic interpretation deeply into the night. Because we're on our way to Serbia's highways and it's been a great pleasure. We started on highways that during the government of the President and Alexander Vukic and these congregational majority were done very much. Unfortunately, we're out there somewhere near Jagodina, we skipped Batocina. That's right, 420 dinars to Batocina, and that's where we stopped. Let's move on. After the chairman of the Assembly Committee on Finance and Power in front of the SNS, Mrs. Aleksandra Tomic, it's really hard to say, because it's studio, quite well and professionally explained everything, all of what we as board members have been doing here for four years, it's going to be thanking God, out there in the winter at full capacity, and they're all the material that's waiting for you there in the assembly, in your parliamentary groups saying we're doing good and we're doing quality work. As soon as an authentic interpretation came here, he didn't come because as we heard here, he was looking for someone from the European Investment Bank, they don't care about it, or the EU. They were looking for a certain ministry. It asked for it because the control of Serbia-Montenegro's flight required it from its main ministry. The resolution ministry addressed the committee responsible and immediately entered the assembly procedure. Why should it be so and why should it be adopted? It is precisely because I am also life-interested that the airport “shipmen” near the King’s equipment and that with the winter flight schedule the flights from the airport start, not as they have been once a week. The same goes for Nis Airport, and I hope for the future airport there on the "Ninks", because the alternative "Nesli" can only be "shipmen" or Nis, I think, above all, "shipmen", because meteorological conditions are much better there. It has also been repeatedly denied that the European Investment Bank has requested that there be a second-degree decision. It says in our law that the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights is in public procurement procedures for resolution in the second degree. It is precisely because our legal solution and what the EIB is called upon and which is represented in the EU is not consistent, are not the same, we have come and we have sought this authentic interpretation. What to say next, everything is also said that the amendments and additions to the Public Procurement Act, where we had sessions of the previous days, in the procedure. I think the Accounting Act has entered, and I think that Public Procurement Act. Anyway, we're not telling SNS that we're the smartest, that we know everything and that everything is ideal. It's not. We've found a lot of bad things, and we're trying to make it better, and we're making it right one step at a time. Unlike those who camp, who fly and have no ideas, who don't want to oppose all of us here, and those of you who are here from the opposition and us from the authorities, to say that we're doing something wrong and to offer us a solution. Unfortunately, they're not here. Thank you for your part in the work. Now, if you're fighting for your political points, it's perfectly normal to fight, but no one can beat those who work and create for the future. I think we'll stay on that path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-18-0.u61017	Thank you, colleague Bojanic. The word is Studenka Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-18-0.u61018	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, the development of our country as the cornerstone of the SNS-led policy is seen through many of the projects that have been implemented, through those that are under way and certainly through many who are being planned. The political stability our president has brought with him has also brought great opportunities for our country, which we have used and turned into a better future for Serbia. One of the partners on this road to Serbia's development is certainly the European Investment Bank as the world's largest multilateral credit institution with the possibility of borrowing on the capital market under very favourable conditions. In the past year, the EIB has signed the most new investment contracts ever in our region of 1.1 billion euros, of which more than 40% in Serbia. The new investment cycle in infrastructure and other projects in Serbia is worth more than half a billion euros. To withdraw all the planned funds, today we create a legal framework with this authentic interpretation that aims to end very important projects for Serbia. The biggest users in this cycle are local self-government, the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Ministry of Health. So he invests in municipal infrastructure, schools, hospitals, roads. The advantage of borrowing from the European Investment Bank compared to other financial institutions, the fact that the funds provided by this bank are managed by a borrower, in this case by the state of Serbia. In addition, there is the possibility that all companies that are interested in these projects, which means that domestic companies with capacity can also participate in construction or reconstruction processes. It has been shown, and it remains that we provide our citizens with a better business environment, which is certainly very attractive to invest. Serbia has the largest inflow of foreign direct investment in the region despite a negative trend worldwide. Britain's Financial Times published a report on investment in the world in 2019, which says Serbia is first in line with the inflow of foreign direct investment of 4.1 billion dollars. The most important thing is that we invest in projects that are profitable, which means money can go back to the state. And with all the investment in projects comes a new increase in profits. Salaries and pensions will be re-enlarged between 8 and 15%. I believe that this news is most rewarding for medical workers, whose incomes will be increased the most. Just like we promised we'd do worth it. The results are visible, and we're proud to talk about them here today. We have not forgotten where Serbia was and where it is now and how many today Serbia has friends and partners in both Europe and the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-18-0.u61019	Thank you, colleague Kovacevic. The word is Ljiljana Malusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-18-0.u61020	Thank you, Chairman. Today, we have before us a proposal for an authentic interpretation of the provision of Article 2. The law attesting to the amending and supplementing financial contracts, of course between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank. Someone said why are we taking loans from the European Investment Bank? So we won't take credit from the European Investment Bank, for God's sake. Well, our course is political towards the EU, but neutrality is war. First, we repay the loans to those who before us have owed the land as much. They took 8 and 12% of their loans. We take loans, but 2% each. We return the loans and invest in infrastructure. We make and make. We built Corridor 10, built the first Serbian highway. Bravo for the Government of the Republic of Serbia, bravo for SNS and Alexander Vukic. The first Serbian highway. Shame, everybody's got highways. We're the only ones who don't. Why? Because they stole everything they could steal. We don't steal, we invest in infrastructure. That is why we have made this agreement with the European Investment Bank and we have just completed Corridor 10 from the European Investment Bank's loan. Of course, part of the budget of the Republic of Serbia. And how? By having heavy reforms in 2014, so we saved money, there were tens of pensions, salaries, but it was worth it. Today we have a surplus in our budget. Sometimes by 3.5%, today plus 3.5%. Well, only in the last six months plus 4% of GDP. That's what people do, savings. If we were such a bad country, who would come to invest here? That we don't have highways. Well, who'd invest somewhere in the mountains? What, just rural tourism. This is where investors come every day. We built 200 factories, over 200 factories. They destroyed 600, and we made 200. The unemployment rate in 2012 was 27%, today less than 10%. We're almost on the European average. That's how it works. Bravo. Well done, I'm proud to be able to talk about this today. The European Investment Bank as a lender and the Republic of Serbia as foreign parties to the Republic of Serbia is a borrower. They've concluded a series of financial contracts on projects. What's first of all? Clinical Centre B, municipal and regional infrastructure, B loan – Corridor 10 highway, research and development in the public sector, school modernisation programme, Corridor 10 stage 1 highway, improvement of judicial bodies, etc. Well, that's the way it works. Someone said we don't work with the Russian Federation and the Chinese. Well, that's just not true. Corridor 10 was completed with money from the Investment European Bank, but Corridor 11 is being created by the administration thanks to loans from Chinese banks and Russian banks. And that's what you need to know. I need to read everything we've done, what we're gonna do. So in a few years, we'll have four freeways. We've finished the South Corridor, it's about Corridor 11, it's about the Moravia Corridor, the Shumadian, four highways. There'll be as much investment as we want. I hope in a few years we get to the unemployment rate of 5%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-18-0.u61021	Thank you. The word is Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-18-0.u61022	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. This year, the European Investment Bank launched a new cycle of investments in infrastructure and other projects in Serbia worth more than half a billion euros and was planned to use these funds by 2022. It should also be said that the European Investment Bank approved more than 200m euros for the construction, modernisation and reconstruction of four clinical centres in Belgrade, Nis, Novi Sad and Kragujevac. Also this year, an agreement was signed with the European Investment Bank on a donation of 10m euros to finance reconstruction projects and improve the water supply system. This will solve many specific problems in many local self - administrations. So, with a 40m-euro loan for the same purpose that we have confirmed here in the Assembly, it will be possible to meet the basic need for water, as well as to improve the business of public utility companies and, of course, the standard of living citizens. I also want to say that there is an infrastructure project on which Belgrade and Pristina should work together, which is the construction of the Nis-Medare-Pristina highway. This project will be implemented with the support of the European Investment Bank. I will take this opportunity to invite all citizens to take advantage of their rights and to support the Serb list in the October 6th election in KIM. If the Serb list won all ten mandates, Serbs would perform uniquely in front of Albanians and the international community. That is why it is necessary for more Serbs to go to the polls, not to be allowed to reduce the impact of Serbs on KIM, but rather to allow Serbs to influence the formation of the government in Pristina. Serbs on the KiM and the Serb list have unequivocal support for Aleksandar Vukic and Belgrade. These elections are also important because of the continued implementation of the plan to help Serbs in KIM. By the end of the year we will have more than 300 projects whose realisation is important for our people in KIM because they are planned for new houses, farms, clinical centres, support for education and the development of spas. Alexander Vukic's and Belgrade's support is greater than ever. The assistance in economic and political terms is stronger than ever, and will continue after the October 6th elections. That is why I call for the Serb-connected list of Serbs to KIM to Belgrade and who will have the legitimacy to transfer the assistance of Belgrade and Serbia's president. The only complex, unique we can improve the life of Serbs in our southern province and influence the voice of Serbs in institutions as well. Those who live there know how important it is, they believe in our support, and the least we can do today is talk about it in parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-18-0.u61023	Thank you, colleague Žarić Kovacevic. Professor Marko Atlagic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-18-0.u61024	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Marinkovic, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, honourable citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we are today talking about a proposal to adopt an authentic interpretation of the provision of Article 2. The law confirming the treaty on changes and additions of financial contracts between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank. Since my fellow Members and colleagues have very well explained this, and this is about contracts, European and international, let me say that a member of the international group of bandits and frauds, Vuk Jeremic, is daily muddying his country and our president, Alexander Vukic. Look at the wonders, now it's moving on. That defilement was passed on to us by neighboring friendly lands. The latest is in Hungary. The latest piece of evidence, he says, is the nomination of Orban's loyalist for the new commissioner of the European Union, and says, "Someone who has actively participated in the repression of democracy, the collapse of the rule of law in Hungary, will be directly in charge of our European future for the next five years." This, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, is not the first time that Vuk Jeremic, a member of the international group of bandits and frauds, has muddyed our country with us neighbouring and friendly countries. As far as international contracts and relations are concerned, Vuk Jeremic is in copyright, respected citizens, at the Paris-based "Mondo", on Day 17. On the 07th of March 2018, when the President of the Republic, Aleksandar Vukic, had a very important meeting with the President of our friendly France, Mr Makron, accused, believe it or not, of Serbia and its President Alexander Vukic for enlargement, I quote: "stable tendencies in the Western Balkans" and by who knows which time he did incomprehensible damage to the state of Serbia and its national interests. Thus, the President of France, Mr Makron, could read only two hours before the official meeting with our esteemed President, Mr Vukic, the worst charges against the state of Serbia and its president, Aleksandar Vukic, by Vuk Jeremic. This is not the only time, with Vuk Jeremic, but who knows which time he stabbed the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the state of Serbia in the back. Vuk Jeremic also did so in the authorial text at "Vashington Post", when he was most brutally insulting the state of Serbia and its president, Aleksandr Vukic, right before his very, very important meeting with US Vice President, Mr. Pens. The citizens of the Republic of Serbia were shocked by this non-patriotic and non-civilisation act and thus Vuk Jeremic for who knows which way he stabbed the Republic of Serbia and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Dear People's MPs, respected and respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we are witnesses of the daily media attack, from time to time, day to day, on the President of the Republic, especially alongside him at the Minister of Interior, Mr Stefanovic, then of the president's associates, of the distinguished MPs in this high house, particularly of Dr Martinovic, Mr. Vlad Orlic, Mr. Vlad Djukanovic. More Mr. Martinovic in this high house and Mr. Vlado Orlic spoke than four MP groups who are not here today, who have stayed for a year. As for Mr. Vlada Djukanovic, I am a witness, gentlemen of the people's MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, that in the National Library, not only me, I also know Mr. Librarians, when he was a student, worked from eight to nine in the evening, there we met as a professor and a student. Dear People's MPs, the Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Marinkovic, Mr Martinovic and Mr Orlic, these attacks will become more and more intense from day to day, from hour to hour, as long as we are stronger to realise the Serbian Modernisation Project, carried out by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the largest number of honourable Members of Parliament, the largest number of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The engine of Serbia's accelerated modernisation is Alexander Vukic. In the end, I will end up with a quote from Svetislav Basara, who said about these various variants of the Democratic Party, 21. 05th of January 2019, I quote: "Democratic Party is a self-administrative community of crooks and thieves". Exactly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-18-0.u61025	Thank you, Professor Atlagic. The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go, colleague Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-18-0.u61026	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are talking about topics that are certainly important for Serbia. And when we talk about loans that are directly allowed to provide important infrastructure results for the state of Serbia and our people, it is certainly the topic of the greatest possible interest for everyone in Serbia. We are talking specifically about those programmes that the Republic of Serbia is very successful in implementing, in co-operation with the European Investment Bank. It's about the kind of infrastructure that deserves maximum attention in every country in the world and which is given the greatest possible importance. For example, what means building corridors, and these joint projects and these loans are directly related to Corridor 10, and there have been words about it today, has also been said about it by the authorised representative of our party and other MPs, directly going for the purpose of realising the kind of results that we really could only dream of in some years behind us, and not just for years, if we say for decades, we will not make a mistake, and we will not go too far. Corridor 10, which represents that link in the quality and good road infrastructure, which allows Serbia to connect with the southern parts of the Balkan Peninsula, but thus achieves a unique route and makes Serbia itself absolutely in the best possible sense the link between central, northern Europe and its south, is indeed a valuable thing, but the thing that was absolutely not easy to come by, was absolutely not easy to realize in practice. For decades it's been planned, decades it's been done piece by piece, but for decades it hasn't been possible to finish that kind of highway. In this year, Serbia did it. The southern arms of Corridor 10 are functional today, used by citizens of Serbia and, of course, look forward to that type of results. Sometimes the news of mass citizens’ decision to stop their vehicle, which of course should not be done on the highway, but joyfully because of this kind of success they wanted to take pictures, to see how fantastic these directions look with more tape, but also new modern tunnels, bridges, how beautiful and how satisfied every man can say -- I live in Serbia that is so successful that something like this today can make it possible for his people. It's kind of a result that no one can dispute and say, although, of course, politics has everything and everything, so there are these kinds of attempts. Someone did it for themselves, it's someone's personal interest. No one can put the highway in their pocket. No one can take the highway to their office, to their party room, or take it to their home. It's something that remains for the citizens of this country, once again, and when we're gone. The eastern arm is also a reality in Serbia today and everyone should be happy to live in Serbia at a time when such is not a story, not a plan, but a reality. We expect, it's a realistic expectation, that that east leg will be finished soon. Two or three days ago it was officially confirmed that the last 12km or more in that direction is now ending. It will also enable us to have the kind of infrastructure that we need, but that we get additional importance and that all those who travel Serbia because they decided to cross from one part of the continent to another say there is no need to bypass this country, on the contrary, I want to go through it, they have to offer me a path like no one else has. Many in this world thought similarly, and for these reasons they built their own infrastructure. I don't think we'll ever find that among those who thought that way and did that someone who wasn't happy to repent for thinking that way and doing that. On the contrary, all the countries that have thus invested in their infrastructure are only satisfied with what they have done. That's what we know. How many times has every one of us heard a sentence – I've been through that and that country, is there a road like that? You see, that changes too. That is one of the most obvious, I would say, indicators that Serbia today is very different, significantly different than the years when the former regime was taken care of, which Gilas, which is what Jeremic, their Tadic, the Democratic Party, or parties, now needs in the plural to pronounce, how many there are. Then we talked – I went to a country, I went through its paths, and I wished that one day I could see it in Serbia, but I'm not sure if that wish will come true. Today, we pass the path that is in our country, in our beautiful Serbia and say, "You know what, it's better than the one next door." I passed, I went with my family somewhere, I saw one and the other, and I can tell you – it's better this one, it's more quality, it's more comfortable. That kind of difference can be seen on these paths clearly, but this is not, of course, the only direction that that kind of difference can confirm today. It has been said and will only be talked about the "Milos the Great" highway, which also represents a dream for many generations, which also proves that successful Serbia, Serbia, which therefore follows the policy of Alexander Vukic and SNS, can realise what was waiting for generations. An hour from Belgrade's territory to the town of Cačka was once unimaginable, everyone will agree. There's certainly not a small number of people who have used the Ibar highway and know what it means to go that way, how often it can be dangerous. What, unfortunately, often filled the black chronicles, often came from the Ibar highway. A single man's life to be saved by building a good highway, and of course it's not his only value, but the only life that we've saved in that way, we've achieved a lot. When you look at what that black statistic used to look like, you realize that here is more important than what I just said. You shouldn't try to degrade this type of result. Of course, politics has everything. There will always be those who simply cannot live with the fact that something is realized and represents the success of political, economic, in any way, someone who is not alone. There are people who truly hate to this extent, that kind of feeling is, Alexander Vukic, the SNS, the governments our party has supported or supports today that they are able even to attack this kind of result with that kind of rude, unargued, pointless story that probably wouldn't have passed on to people who have no experience with the former regime, and we have it and how all of us together, because we all felt what it means when they're wondering somewhere, so they need somewhere to provide or build something. How did that end? It ended up, as a rule, with their pockets significantly full, and these roads were nowhere to be found, but they will say today – you are not good at Corridor 10, and when you ask – well, wait for people, and how wrong it is, is it possible to say that it is not good that the Throat is mastered, that it is not good that Serbia is in a high place today, when you look at the European map of corridors and highways, how can it be wrong, they say – you fell apart on the highway and do you know what they say? If there's any damage that's dimensions, well, that's how many hairs one, and then they say -- well, because we saw something on the asphalt out there, there's something that's the size of one hair, and now we're going to talk, we're going to write, tweet all over God's day -- the highway crashed, the tunnel fell, and the rest of them, and I need to use that word, but it's stupid. That someone to this extent is envious, to this extent unsatisfactory, above all, not to ourselves, but to ourselves, because there is nothing to show for himself that he has done and done, and to compete for this kind of result, to say – however, it is not a good highway “Milas the Great”. What's the biggest problem? Of course, the biggest problem is that it is the result of Alexander Vukic and SNS. The biggest problem is that Alexander Vukic personally let the road work. The biggest problem is that on that occasion he took to say how important this is for Serbia and how many people, real, living people, we provided a lot of the moment we created and achieved this result. Everything about Alexander Vukic is unforgivable to these people, but they say then – well, it's no good to you and it's nothing important because, well, from downtown Belgrade should get there somewhere to Obrenovac, and now it takes 40 minutes. Of course, it's never been less than 45 or 50 in their time, but that's less important now. More importantly, they won't say that there's someone who right now, while we're talking about this, is just doing a new road infrastructure that's supposed to represent inclusion from the city of Belgrade, a bypass on the Milos the Great highway, that the direction that from Surcin is going to that side is now being realized by people who are worth their business, who are engaged in front of the government, who again we support and who are once again implementing our policy. This kind of reality that in Serbia you have not only everything you have never had, but everything you can no longer invent, nor do you fantasize as a grudge, an evil, nasty people who are obsessed only with hatred for Alexander Vukic and the SNS, it is one clear indicator of what a Serbian state is today and that it is not handled by anyone's personal interests, that it takes care of what the needs of the people are and that it plans even for what these great geniuses and professionals are for brutal, unfeeling robbery alone, they could never even imagine. They made up a lot of things, they promised, of course, only the people were lying, and they were rich themselves, but they could never imagine directions like those that would be good, quality, modern highways, and for which we openly say, we want to attack that kind of challenge, we want to build those roads, so that those who refer to the Moravia Corridor, as well as those who have to go through the heart of the Forest and that the whole part of our country, connected to the Mladenec and to the western corridors that we have already mastered, connects to the east of the country, even to Bora to go, and also to which they also attack and challenge, which Nis has to connect with the administrative border of KIM, at Pločnik. Of course, that direction will mean a lot to, above all, our people who live in that part of Serbia, because everyone can confirm, with a sound sense of being guided, what it means and how valuable it is when you have that infrastructure in one part of the country that has been truly burned, abandoned, forgotten in many years, when Serbia was ruled by the former regime and in which investment needs first of all today. Well, it's easier for someone to be bold and say, yes, I want to build a factory there, because, look, there's this good infrastructure that's going to be very good for me, and it's going to be traveling, but it's not just you. When we talk about infrastructure, the Moravia Corridor, for which many dispute its estimated value, does not mean, ladies and gentlemen, only travel infrastructure. Even for her to say just, you wouldn't be right, because it's not just that. That includes the kind of corridor that refers to state-of-the-art communications, telecommunications. It also implies fighting nature, a relief to master where rivers are to go. These are all the things that won't be taken into account by those who want to say that anything in Serbia is someone's personal, private interest, just to avoid in any way the truth, that it's the interest of the people, that the people, above all, should also have good paths, that they have other infrastructure and the most modern communication, because that business also brings, because that business also encourages, and that business is watching when it decides whether they will come or not. But the sewerage that a significant number of our citizens do not have today, but they will, thanks to the investment cycle that the Republic of Serbia is starting today. As for and why, Serbia is to this extent significantly more successful today than yesterday. How and why can Serbia do this today? One of the answers is that we really have a significantly better relationship with all the important, relevant players on the world stage, so-called, with which we can negotiate joint investments, ventures, jobs, and loans, if you like. That we can today, thanks to extraordinary relations with EU countries, but also with the political West, in the broadest sense, but also with the Russian Federation, as well as with the People's Republic of China and many of our friends, partners from the world, as regards the countries of Latin America and the African countries, achieve much more than ever was realistic. When we talk about European money that helps this kind of project we must not forget, ladies and gentlemen, that nothing less, some would say even from case to case, and more valuable and significant results are achieved thanks to the extraordinary co-operation with the People's Republic of China. And while we have this kind of trust-guarantee relationship with each other and guaranteeing that Serbia will be considered and treated as a good place to invest together, a good place to do business, but also a partner who is truly reliable and able to settle his obligations, we and the People's Republic of China have gone a few steps further than we could ever imagine. Among other things, that kind of significant project we've already realized, that we have a literal salvation for the entire parts of the country. Everyone in Serbia knows that the notorious truth of "The Iron" in Smederev could not survive. The city or the region couldn't survive if we didn't have that kind of relationship with the People's Republic of China, if it hadn't personally been for Alexander Vukic's authority to take that solution, that he hadn't personally built that kind of relationship with the Chinese president, the Chinese prime minister, that he hadn't talked to him a little million times before a common solution was found. The company would have failed, the city would have failed, and it would have been very difficult to find an alternative for Smedereva and the environment. However, when it is done seriously, when this kind of relationship is established that Alexander Vukic and our friends from China have been established, a solution is found, I will read to you some numbers, that the Chinese firm Hestil has already paid more than tens of millions of euros, we are close to 50 million, and it invests another 300 million, that they have kept all workers, absolutely all workers, and then they have hired new workers, that their income has been raised and that they have earned by working on the strict conditions of the market for a flattering epithetist of Serbia's leading exporter. So it is not a solution, as someone said, that the hole is patched up, but a solution that allows everything to be better than ever, to be more successful, to compete with others and to show that it can be competitive and Europe itself, and that Europe is doing more and more on its part, and that it spreads its hands every time, and that it just says – good for what you are doing today in the Irons and for how you do business, what results you are making. That's what ladies and gentlemen were supposed to fight for. It's no less valuable result or one that applies to RTB Bor. And we managed to achieve it thanks to this kind of behavior, building fantastic trust, but also to the strength of our institutions, our economy, our effort, above all, to do what is good for the citizens of our country, again for a complete city or a complete region. Again, several numbers, to remind ourselves all together, 63% of the ownership of RTB Bor today has our Chinese partner, Zi Jin. Over $350m has already arrived, and total investment, investment and further development commitments are another $1.26 billion. So again, it's not about the solution let's just kind of bridge, let's just survive, it doesn't matter until when, it's about a solution that represents further development. It's about a solution that represents further construction, a promotion that makes everything better than it was at any moment. Also mentioned today was the Zemun-Borch Bridge, which is also another example of this type of co-operation with the same partners, with our NRC friends. The value of that investment is measured again, so hundreds of millions of dollars, if you will. The value of this investment is close to 170 million. It's not a small thing, and it's realized. It is also open today to the joy of citizens of all Serbia, who are going that way. It was supposed to be done and secured. Although many people like to dick themselves with other people's feathers, let's be totally honest. Alexander Vukic's government paid more than 90% of that bridge. Whatever you think and claim today, you know who you need to take credit for what we have today and this kind of infrastructure. When it comes to building a block at the Kostolac Termo power plant, it is also another extraordinary case of successful, smart work with our friends from China. It's the result of Alexander Vukic's politics again. The Belgrade-Budapest railroad. Whether it ever existed as a topic for the former regime that only took care of how many hundreds of millions of euros will be turned around in the accounts of Gilas's companies. They didn't care. They were interested not in the railways, nor the corridor to the north nor to the south nor to any other side, but as far as it is possible to resell advertising seconds to RTS, as argued in one report by the Government's Anti-Corruption Council, can be obtained free of charge and then sold under market conditions. How cheaply to be bought by God by those who can't place him under those conditions that Dragan Gilas, by those companies who are forced to sell Gilas 10 times cheaper than what Gilas then sells further. They were interested in, above all, that this kind of business, as they say, develops, to fill pockets, to fill straws, to be the weightier bank accounts, often foreign foreign foreign foreign foreign accounts. And for someone to build a rail corridor, to make sure that the railroad is modernized, the last hole on the track, the last. He didn't have anyone to think about, let alone who did. Today it's a reality, because today there's someone who can think and who wants to work and who can provide the result. On the subject of the Belgrade-Budapest railway, the value of the project, the real project 1.5 billion euros, 350km of long traffic and will be around half of Serbia's employees. Whatever it is that's done, our people are still additionally engaged, to whatever infrastructure we're getting, we're still providing additional work for our people. Wherever we can offer it, we make sure our materials are used, that our machinery is engaged. Wherever we can find extra space to help us and do something better for our people, we do it. That's why we have these results as relativity, and that's why people react to this kind of reality with support on their own. They know people, there wouldn't be a road without Alexander Wolf and SNS. What's proof? So the life of each and every one of us. Has anyone seen him? Has anyone seen him before Alexander Wolf and SNS? You'll hardly find one. Has anyone seen that kind of railroad? It's not. Did anyone manage to raise to that level of competitiveness not only save but also raise to that level the Ironstone? No one's seen it, so no one can lie about it. This solution to RTB Bor, did anyone find it before Alexander Vukic and SNS? It's nobody. If we are talking about other investments, or other investments that are important to us, we should not forget, but that is also important, close to a billion dollars is worth investment, or a joint project related to a grain factory. When we talk about these big and sound solutions that we have achieved thanks to our co-operation with the People's Republic of China, this is one of the most recent results, and that somehow always falls into another plan, but it's fantastically important. Every firm that has come to the Republic of Serbia, because we have tried to find arguments, to find good reasons, to bring them here, to accept and say – that, I want to go to the Republic of Serbia, every firm is vital to people who live in a certain part of Serbia, for people who simply had no perspective because they had no possibility in the areas that were completely abandoned were, in which you couldn't find a company that works. What could a man expect? What could he have planned in his life when a employer arrived somewhere and opened about 300, about 1,000, somewhere 2,000 new jobs? It's already a completely different story. A Serbian citizen who loves his country, of course, I believe that we all love it, but who wants to stay in it to live, must have some space, some possibility that his wish might be possible. It is impossible where he cannot earn his monthly income, to provide an elementary existence for his family, both from such a Serbia, in which no man, no family, was cared for without doubt by the richness of any Gilassi, Jeremic, the rest of them in the Boris Tadic environment, you know them all by heart. Man, as much as he wanted to stay in Serbia, as much as he loved, if he faced it, and he faced not a small number of people with the fact that he had nowhere to go and there was no way, these people literally forced them to find another solution. When they talk about how they left Serbia, and how they're leaving today, people were forced not to look better, but to look for anything. Today, when you ensure that a man in Serbia has alternatives, you open up space for him to live in Serbia, he can do it realistically. That's why things are getting better in our country. When you look at hundreds of thousands of people being registered as newly employed, so as people who didn't have a job, and today they have it, you know, we're talking about the potential hundreds of thousands of people who could leave Serbia. We motivated these people not to leave, to stay here, to start their families here and keep living with them, by opening up this kind of alternative for them, or the possibility of wanting to live in Serbia and staying. When you see hundreds of thousands in some tables of the Republic Bureau of Statistics, you know, they're not numbers just, they're living people. Hundreds of thousands of those who have not had a life-saving solution, who have found it in the meantime, precisely thanks to the attraction of investment and the realization of our policy. These are the living people who could potentially not be in this country anymore. It's important stuff. When serious, responsible, thorough work is planned, the future is planned in the right way. Today we know that there is even more room in Serbia for even better quality jobs in our country. Those who underestimate factories where the average salaries are 400 euros, at the same time do not say that they offered not a single euro to those people who work for 400 or 500 euros today, but forced them to live with zero receipts in whatever currency you want. They underestimate these people and say -- it's not good for them to live with 400 or 500 euros a month, that's small. There is no way for Serbia to attract even more quality jobs, but they will not say, there and already attract them. On several occasions, we talked about companies that come to Serbia, where the average incomes are significantly above this level. There were also those with 1,000, 1,500, 2,000 euros in income on average, and there are such cases. But there is, more importantly, extra space for quality work, even more quality than we've motivated him to come today, we'll make sure tomorrow. How? Among other things, investment in research and development. Some of the users of these precisely these programs we are discussing concern those belonging to the Organizational Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development. And the money we invest right through these programs that are on the agenda goes for research and development. It is shown in these materials that we have prepared for today's session, of course, and for modernising schools. But by investing in research and development, we continue those efforts we also talked about as early as yesterday or yesterday. We're creating an extra space for young people so they can make something new. If they start their own business, to have support, not to be alone, who wants to create and work in Serbia, has a good idea, that he can feel that he's not in this fight alone, that the state wants to stand behind him, encourage him and help him start. We were saying that Serbia, applying different measures of stimulation, is precisely for beginners in the business, is now recognised at a planetary level. You have an international association called Startup Genome, which explores at a plantarian level what conditions are like from country to country. And they singled out Serbia, not us to talk about ourselves. They say -- Serbia today is among the most successful in the world when it comes to this type of support, that kind of positive environment to start its own business. Young people who are engaged in our scientific institutes, research and development institutes, or in higher education institutions, who work on current things, modern things, those things that compete on the world market, can count on the state standing alongside them, that they will and can help them, that they have greater income and significantly safer incomes than they have ever had before. The example is, in the science and research sector, that there is now a kind of system financing and support that is absolutely not related to any of these projects, but it is about permanent security for these young people, that their existence is ensured, and that if they are successful in their business, they will be able to count on being evaluated through incomes even more and even better. This is one of the results of Alexander Vukic's policy and SNS. A secure quality link to the economy, to that part of our system, if you want, that should allow to place what we have done, to find its market, is also one of the valuable results of this successful policy. Dual education. Many wanted to challenge him in the previous days, months, but they can't say, no one can say that it's not good for a young man to gain more experience, to gain that kind of practice that he wouldn't have to go into a company and not try to do something concrete, to learn through work, to further perfect himself, to be more capable, to be more competitive, to be able to look everyone in the eyes and say – I really know how to do it, that and I want to compete with anyone, to show that I'm more skilled, more capable, that I can make a particular product faster, better, better. There can't be anything wrong with that. That's all anyone can refuse to accept and confess. But you need to think that way, you need to understand the needs of young people in the right way, so we encourage them, and we did it through these programs. This learning through the work was a successful solution to the existential plan for literally thousands of students, and it is being introduced, we voted it at the beginning of this session, in the form of law and at the level of higher education. And surely those who have shown interest in these programmes, and are measured by thousands and many institutions have participated, will be able to tell us, just as the actors in secondary education and the businessmen who have collaborated with them, when years or two pass, what effects they see. If at this level of higher education institutions see the effects that are close to those we have already achieved, that about 75% to 90% of young people who participated in these programmes tomorrow find a good solution, we have done an extraordinary job. And be assured, we will discuss these effects and we will only be able to realize that we are satisfied, all of us who want to admit, to say that it is not difficult for us to accept that something has been well achieved in Serbia, that we who participated in it, supported it, that we are proud, and the rest of us must be decent enough to just say it – it is good, it is good. As for those things Serbia can today, and they could not even imagine, we would be wrong not to mention this opportunity if a decision had already been made at the government level to make new increases in income in different sectors. For citizens who are very interested in following this topic, to repeat, the projected increase for nurses is 15%, for doctors 10%, for science and culture, through all this we have already provided, infrastructure and new technology parks and stable funding, which is absolutely undeniable today, but also new quality money, significant money for those projects that are most successful, along with all of that 10%, for education 9%, the judiciary and the prosecution, social protection 9%, as well as for security services, for the state administration 8%. When it comes to pensioners, of course, satisfied with the fact that we were able to get pensions for everyone, but all categories of pensioners, more today than before we entered the reform measures in 2014 with the solution that planned regular pension coordination, we will automatically get a new pension increase of about 5.5%, with additional support, one-time, every pensioner, every pensioner in Serbia. We've done it a few times before, and now, here, we've done it seriously, we've made a surplus in the budget. It's in the register. Someone was worried about how many billions today. There are over 46 billion more than planned, so there will be additional support for every pensioner. He can, if he wants to be honest, everyone in this country can be happy about this type of result and not a decent man can ever underestimate it. It's easy for MPs, which DS, which these courtesans, although I don't know if they all ran away from Bosko Obradovic, is easy for those who bought Gilas and Jeremic to mock, chuckle literally. You have seen them do so many times that those who have taken parliamentary salaries have decided to boycott their work and pay for them not to boycott, who have still asked the Assembly to pay their apartments in Belgrade, who have the right to additionally charge transportation costs for arrival to the National Assembly, which they do not come to at all. How many times have you heard them, so pleased with all that they took from the people and on the budget, to say, "Let some thousand dinars be given to a pensioner there." It's not about a thousand dinars and it's not some pensioner. They don't have any touch points in common with the people that represent it, because they don't know how much money is worth to a man who lives, say, in some poor neighborhood in southern Serbia, who is a pensioner and who, you know what, thanks to these single support programs, I know such cases, I've talked to people, so here's the example. Buy a new TV, two pensioners in the house. Of this program, which is measured by some thousands of dinars, these people join together and buy after 80 and some years for the first time television. You know what they'll tell you tomorrow? I've got a new TV, this nice, modern, wide, so it can fit on the whole shelf, so thin, thanks to Alexander Wolf. That's what they'll say. It's not about whether we want to represent something one way or another. People feel that way, they feel that someone really cares about them, and thanks to this someone, Alexander Vukic, this SNS, the Serbian government that we support, there's something today that just wasn't and it wasn't even possible to imagine. He never had that. Now you come before the citizens of Serbia and you say – these pensioners should be dissatisfied because they have more, these young people should be dissatisfied because they have more and all of them should do... What? To give back, if possible, some voice to those who robbed them all together, both young and old, without any difference. You say – it's good for them to fly into the Dictionary, to create a literal dump and to be proud of it, to photograph it, to talk about how we are some great fighters for student rights, and you don't know who is a major student, whether these Gilas, Marinika Tepic or Bosko Obradovic, might be the first, he is the second year, whether the Lutovac graduate or that one, Milivojevic, also, high-ranking DS, whether they are members of the Stari Grad Bastavic clan. All these people, who have nothing to do with students, do they have to be choices both young and old in this country, to be given authority to them? Since it can't vote, if it can be an unexpected force that suddenly appears and solves things by putting them in the seats of ministers, by putting them in the seats of directors in public enterprises, by giving them absolute power in different local self-governments, because these people are looking for them, and saying Serbia shouldn't be satisfied to have an average salary of 500 euros, no one should be satisfied with Corridor 10, everyone should curse the Milos Large highway, everyone should curse higher pensions, they should give up investments in science, they should forget everything we've built, they should all be destroyed to be satisfied, because there are opportunities to re-rove and load in their pockets. That story and that offer in Serbia simply won't buy anyone. If anyone thinks this conclusion isn't right, they have a chance to check it out. The opportunity to check is in a few months, and that opportunity is called elections. He who knows that in both political and human and in any sense is worth nothing, because he only made people unhappy, because he only cut people off from any present and perspective, he's going to say, I have some reasons why I won't go out in those elections, but he knows that in these elections, his corridors show their results, his increases to show and put them in front of ours, there's none. That's why he knows that a single honest voice wouldn't win. You know what? He's right to understand that.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-18-0.u61027	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the principled search is concluded, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? Is anyone answering for a word? The word has the People's MP Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-18-0.u61028	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues, we are bringing today's debate to an end with a titled topic – authentic interpretation of changes and additions to financial contracts. What we had a chance to hear today is that some of the topics may have been exceeded in the work and slightly broader view by some MPs, when it comes to contracts and the realisation of these projects themselves. We have to say that what we have today as a point of the agenda, which the SNS will support, is in some way the harmonisation of these European regulations when it comes to banks themselves and what our Public Procurement Act is. Simply, whoever gives some money, places, such as the European Investment Bank and other banks, they have their own procedures and they give through certain work of their commissions, then the guide and they do not recognize perhaps the topics that we have recognised, which is to protect the rights of the bidder in public procurement procedures, which we have defined by law. In order for the projects to continue to function, to be completed, to be realized, and especially those relating to infrastructure, we have today in fact this proposal of authentic interpretation, which essentially requires us to complete certain projects, especially those relating to the bypass around Belgrade, where the borrower is the Public Enterprise "The Roads of Serbia", then the bypass around Belgrade is "B", where the borrower is the Public Enterprise "The Roads of Serbia", then the city of Belgrade, the "Savia Bridge" project and access roads, roads, where the borrower city of Belgrade is, and then the Elektroprivreda Serbia, the replacement of electronic numbers, where the Borrower is the Public Enterprise "Electroprivreda Serbia", as well as a project to restore the railway where the public undertaking is the "Learship of Serbia" is now the Akleznica Association of Serbia. So, the bottom line of this is what you heard in a broader sense as Mr. Orlic said, and in a narrow sense that means that we continue all projects relating to infrastructure, because at the end of the day, the recommendations of all international financial organisations that have recognised our success in fiscal consolidation and economic reforms, but who said that you would achieve higher rates of growth should go to public investment, you should go to the infrastructure, because that is the only way you can create higher revenues, a greater surplus from which, ultimately, Serbian citizens feel better through the increase in wages, through an increase in pensions, through what is called the standard of Serbian citizens. And that is why this proposal for authentic interpretation and this proposal relating to support for all these projects is, in fact, a vote for today's bill, or an authentic interpretation of this document, which should actually allow all Serbian citizens to really feel the results of the implementation of these projects. You may not have known by now, since 2000, it has been withdrawn from the EIB, the European Investment Bank 3.1 billion euros. So 5.5 billion has all been withdrawn in the last five years. This means that a great result is achieved if you are truly responsible for implementing such projects and you are really spending on what you planned for, because both the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Infrastructure are in this list and the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Health. So, when you really have projects that you'll be able to implement and do from the beginning to the end, as prescribed by the rules, and not because you'd spend it on other purposes, and you wouldn't end the bridges, you'd leave some additional works that would be 220 million euros, like we had so-called. Gilas Bridge, or "The Bridge of Adi", now that you have a real realization in that capacity where there are both supervision and commissions and spending of public funds, means under the supervision of the Ministry of Finance and through Budget, monitoring through Budget Serbia and through Public Debt Administration, then you really have the results we have today. It is still to be said that every change does not contribute to any increase in public debt, which is very important, and this means that we are essentially enabling these projects to be implemented to the end. In voting day, I think not only the SNS MPs and its coalition partners will support this, but perhaps some that have been the main opponents so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-18-0.u61029	Thank you, Professor Tomic. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a principled search on the proposal for authentic interpretation. We'll continue work tomorrow, so Thursday at 10:00. Thank you.
