ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63721	Thank you, Chairman. In front of the parliamentary group of the Modern Serbian Party, we will ask the question of Justice Minister Mrs. Nelli Kuburovic to give us an explanation why Serbia's cities and municipalities do not have enough notaries. In other words, when will the competition for new notaries, or public notebooks, be called? Article 15. The Law on Public Registration prescribes that the number of public places per Serbia's cities and municipalities determines the minister of justice, which determines whether and when a competition for new public notes will be launched and also says that every 25,000 people are designated by one public notary in areas with a higher population concentration and more intensive business. In Nis, for example, four notaries currently operate, so four public records offices, and Nis has no 100,000 inhabitants, but there are more, twice as many residents. Even Novi Sad, where the notary has three times as many as in Nis, is almost eleven, the number of public notebooks is insufficient. The number of notaries per municipality and cities is, in fact, determined by the Regulation on the provisional number of public places and their official seats, and the competition was called for for the right 100 public notebooks, and there is a number of notaries according to the number of inhabitants. However, as the name itself says, this Regulation is temporary and has been brought in five years ago, and then it defines this temporary number of notaries, which has been shown to be insufficient for a long time, so we are essentially interested in when we are going to get a new rule or when in some other way we are going to get a solution to this ongoing problem that affects all citizens of Serbia, given the extent and width of the authority of the notaries and the public notices entrusted to them? In public, it is very often expressed and suspected that this issue of insufficient numbers of notaries is actually deliberately left unresolved to the pressure of the Public Note Chamber in order to avoid the creation of competition with existing public notebooks, because in many municipalities in Serbia we have only one notary, and in many we have none, and then notaries from other municipalities cover the territory of those municipalities in which the notary is not available. This, of course, is important for the next year that is electoral because, I remind you, voters will have to turn to notaries for the signing of support for the submission and declaration of the electoral lists if they decide to participate in the elections, which will also be one of the factors on which they will be defined, because if there are electoral obstructions in the form of an insufficient number of notaries then it will be difficult to collect signatures and certainly it will be one of the factors that may define political participants in Serbia not to go out in the elections. Another question for the Justice Minister is why does the Justice Review Committee exist only in Novi Sad and Belgrade? The New Sad Commission covers Vojvodina, and Belgrade covers the rest of Serbia. The justice ministry is responsible for forming commissions and we are then asking why there should be no commission, let's say, in Nis, one in Kragujevac, because, of course, interested graduate lawyers who want to pass a judicial exam is difficult to travel to Belgrade and Novi Sad. It takes time and it creates travel costs and accommodation costs and in some ways young lawyers who are not close to the Novo Sad and Belgrade area are discriminated against by colleagues from these already urban centres where there are commissions to pass a judicial exam. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63722	Thank you, Mr. Turkey. Now the word has been made by the People's MP George Komlensky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63723	Thank you, Chairman. My question is to the Serbian government, the MUP, specifically addressed to the BIA. We already wanted to ask this as a question, but it's nice that it also coincided with today's press articles, and the question is, since my colleagues translated it from English and wrote it as read, so I wouldn't be wrong, because I don't know English about the company "Key Connection Media". Will the BIA question, very interesting when translated from the English name of this company to sprski, tell me that it reads "a key link", is there a key link between 1.4m euros that have been paid to the company "Ki Connect Media", which is one of the founders of Mr. Jugoslav Ćosic? Is there a key link between how N1 television works in the Republic of Serbia? What is its programming and editorial style when it comes to the interests of the Republic of Serbia? In my opinion, BIA should check the next thing – were the funds paid from Albania to "Ki Connect Media" first from Kosovo and Metohija, so that practically, from Albania, that money was only re-emissioned to the jury account "Ki Connect Media"? It's very interesting that the rest of the funds were paid by the American embassy. Especially what should be interesting is both the Tax Administration and the Tax Police, which is not identifying transactions from this company to natural persons, Mr. Jugoslav Cosic and another person whose name I do not want to mention, but to the state authorities it will be very simple to establish. Gentlemen, the time has come for us to stop closing our eyes to the truth and I expect an absolute answer whether there is a direct link between the programme policy, the relationship to the "Serbian List", the N1 TV shows and all that, is there any key connection to the money that is through Kosovo, which has arrived from Kosovo and Metohija via Albania in the company "Ki Connect Media"? As citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we have the right to a clear, precise and accurate answer, because there is no reason for anyone to run from the truth. Maybe by the way BIA could deal with the following facts, which is that something very strange is happening in Telecom. It happens in the last year that cable connection to users, especially in Belgrade and certain residential buildings, is physically interrupted, that no one from Telecom will react for days, come to the scene, and then appear from the SBB that offers services to them and, as soon as possible, they become service providers instead of Telecom. Maybe this wouldn't be interesting if it weren't for the fact that people responsible for timely response in Telecom don't slowly cross over and become employees of the SBB. This may be the final moment for this Pandora's box to be resolved, to determine how all this works, whether the re-transmitted money from Albania, Kosovo and Metohija via Albania has had a direct impact on the truths of N1 TV and those who are watching it and we expect an answer within the shortest possible time, because Serbia's security is obviously extremely endangered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63724	Thank you, Mr. Komlensky. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Olena Papuga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63725	Thank you, President-in-Office, dear colleagues, I will take advantage of my opportunity given to me by the Law on Official Use of Language and Letters, so I will speak in my native language, which is Russian, and you are a little bit, at this point we will feel a little like in the European Parliament, which we are seeking, and show that we too can be European Parliament. The first question I ask is Minister of Education Mladen Sarčević, why until November did he not react to the fact that students, members of national minorities do not have textbooks, but has blamed the national councils of national minorities for their guilt? It would be responsible if the minister were to check whether his ministry was giving permission in time to print the textbooks, which is not the case and the ministry is very late in it, as well as why has he not mentioned one in any of its statements or in any low-level publishers, such as "Clet" so far, that they have not issued textbooks, and it is already November? Last year, it happened that by April, members of the national minorities in the first and fifth grade of primary school, who went through the new programme did not receive textbooks. I checked with the Russian National Council, where I'm a member, that the National Council has acted according to all the standards, that it has respected the time the law gives. So he found translators, lecturers, all possible conditions he gave and the textbooks were translated, some of them, on July 5th. So, this blame on Minister Sarcevic for not having the textbooks come out, blaming it on national councils is very wrong. I have been a member of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia since 2009 and I have started to fight for it, i.e. to ask questions as to why national minorities do not have textbooks. It's been ten years, we still have the same problem. I think it is Minister Sarcevic's responsibility and it is up to him to correct that injustice, to warn publishers. In that case, I think that "Clet" does the most textbooks for national minorities, as low-sighted. So I'm asking the minister to speed it up. The second question is asked by Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management Branislav Nedimovic, who visited my village of Russian Krstur on November 7th, and as the biggest problem, he highlighted the issue of the crusader ABC Food and said the problem must be resolved quickly. The factory is located in a pre-licensed procedure. He also said that he would solve the problem, so what does the minister think he's doing with the factory because the workers haven't been paid in ten years? All those who brought raw materials did not get paid, small shareholders were damaged, etc. In early September, I wrote a letter about what was going on in that combination “1. May," let's put it this way, which he also had under his hat "ABC Food", I wrote about it to the president of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandr Vukic, because I once discussed it with the government in these issues. He also found it strange that one vegetable factory could fail in the middle of Vojvodina. So I got an agreement from him that he sent to the resolution ministries, courts, etc., a warrant to react and to see what was going on in that pre-licensed ice-colding procedure of ABC Food. The privatisation of this factory began in 1990 under the old law, and after 2000 privatisation was completed under the new law. The majority owner was Ephgenia Trendlimasov of Cyprus, who not only destroyed this giant, but destroyed the entire village. The preliminary procedure began in 2012 and I wrote to President Vukic about what was going on in that factory. I think he will react as Minister Nedimovic, who promised something new would happen at the factory, will react. So, once again, I'm curious about what they're planning to do at this ABC Food factory that maybe in some way and get the Sombor Court to finally start doing something after ten years, and that the Resord Ministry would help the village and in some way resuscitate the factory that already exists? So there's no need for any investment, no investment. Perhaps the creation and employment of new workers and start working in a vegetable factory in the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63726	Thank you. Nice language. The word is Daniel Stojadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63727	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, today is November 14th, today the Holy Witches of Cosma and Damian, the doctoral glory. I want to congratulate my fellow doctors and all medical workers in Serbia on the glory, wish my personal happiness and professional success, to stick to the Hippocratic oath and to care for the health of our citizens. Since today is also World Diabetes Day, I would like to ask the team a question from the Minister of Health. Namely, diabetes is a chronic systemic metabolism disorder, resulting in a sustained increase in blood glucose levels. It's mostly hereditary. In Serbia of this disease, according to the Institute of Public Health of Serbia "Dr Milan Jovanovic Batut", by 2017 we have data that more than 700,000 people are suffering. That's the data for diagnosed patients. It is considered to be much larger, unfortunately. Diabetes is an increasingly common disease in both children and young people, it is present throughout our population. There is a lot of talk about how much this disease makes life and the ability to work for the sick more difficult, both in the profession and in the public. The medical profession deals with us and in the world because at the world level, this disease is becoming more and more widespread. People with diabetes face major obstacles in facing different types of discrimination, especially in schools, when talking about the younger population, and there are many examples that people who suffer from diabetes are rejected for loans in banks or employers refuse to hire them. I think that, as a society, we should be more responsible to approach this health problem of large scales, to work much more on the education of people who have diabetes, but also on the social environment, as well as on prevention of those who are at risk or generally healthy people, not to get into diabetes. Today, at a time of the digital era and globalisation, it is greatly easier to work on it, unlike just a few decades ago. This is part of the action of these preventive checks that we are conducting throughout Serbia. Given that there is a national health care strategy for people with diabetes, which is valid until 2020, with the aim of drawing attention to those with this disease, I would like to ask the Minister of Health if the effects of implementing the current strategy are already recognised? Do you recognize problems and foresee measures of protection and prevention for the next period and what measures are foreseen to prevent discrimination against diabetes patients, especially children in schools and working diabetics, when we know, unfortunately, and discrimination in employment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63728	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Alexander Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63729	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the tendency in Serbia since the 2000 mafia coup, has been a very active activity of NGOs. So these are foreign agents who worked openly against our country in the 1990s, who supported the bombing, which supported the mob coup, largely financed from abroad, it's no secret. There are data in all available documents on how these organisations were financed. And, 19 years after that, they've been heavily financed from the Republic of Serbia's budget. It's been greatly increased lately, somewhere over 10 billion dinars per year is being allocated to finance NGOs. Of course, there are some other non-political organizations, veteran associations and others. But it is primarily those who continue to finance from abroad, such as the Open Society Fund, such as the Helsinki Committee, such as the Humanitarian Law Fund, organisations that work openly against our people, against our state and are financed from Serbia's budget. What will the Government of the Republic of Serbia do about this, especially given that when we look at some media that openly support the government, we see that in fact these representatives of NGOs are among our greatest enemies? Well, how are they enemies if the state of Serbia finances them from the budget? The government of the Republic of Serbia should make regulation on the matter and see two completely different systems, two different countries that are mutually foreign-politicalally opposed, the United States and the Russian Federation. In both countries, representatives of NGOs financed from abroad are also marked in their media performances and anywhere else as agents of foreign interest, because they are. So their mission here is to represent the interests of those countries that pay them. What will the Republic of Serbia do about it? As long as more and is it normal for the Republic of Serbia to pay more than ten billion dinars in the budget for the annual work of these organisations? I'll remind you, they're black women too. These are NGOs whose main topics are independent Kosovo, major Serbian aggression on Croatia, Serbian genocide, i.e. The genocide committed by Serbs in Srebrenica, that Serbs actually deserved the bombing themselves, that Serbs were primitive and stupid and everything else. These are the topics the state of Serbia is paying for. We even had an absurd situation that the city's council members, the former SNS minister, openly supported the maintenance of the Mirdita festival, the promotion of Kosovo culture in downtown Belgrade. That's what the state of Serbia pays for. So not only scandalous, but anti-state. The government of the Republic of Serbia should in some ways protect itself from it, not finance it. We saw another situation the day before yesterday in the National Assembly, that when these NGOs, in particular, one controlled by George Soros, are making meetings here between the opposition political parties and the authorities. Then the pro-Western political parties and the ruling parties completely forget all their differences, completely forget what they said to each other and in less than 24 hours Soroš invites them all to a meeting, and even the Vice-President of the Assembly interrupts and takes a 15-minute break ahead of schedule, because one of the invited was both Minister of Interior and Deputy Prime Minister. So, the NGO calls on our ministers as if they were employed in this NGO, as if they were workers, not ministers and represent the government of Serbia, so whoever it is. Indeed, one solution that needs to be profited, for the general benefit and for the profit of our country is to finally say what is what, to say what is the foreign agent, what are their tasks here, and not to be covered by some truth, by their words, or objectivity, we here have a foreign interest which is presented as an NGO.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63730	The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63731	Thank you. I would just like to repeat one, and remind myself of Tuesday's question, which was a statement, namely the reaction of the Serbian political summit, especially the president of the state and, in particular, the foreign ministry, to which I address this issue, who knows which time of the repeated non-diplomatics, and worse than that, Eddie Rama's statement at the meeting of representatives of Serbia, Northern Macedonia and Albania in Ohrid. So, at that moment, at a joint press conference, standing next to the president of the Republic of Serbia, immediately after handling and mixing the hands of each other, Mr Rama says again that Serbia should recognise Kosovo, thinks Kosovo is independent, says it is not talking about large Albania, but is talking about eradicating borders with Kosovo and that it is going through, as usual, without reaction, both on the spot and on the acts of a non-diplomatic demarsor. Mr. Rama, this isn't the first time. He does so continuously and particularly likes it when the president of Serbia and Serbian political representatives are present. We all know that politics and life sometimes need to be swallowed up, sometimes something has to be quieted down. But Eddie Rama and Albania are neither Si Jinping, neither is Donald Trump, neither is America, nor is China, nor is any other great force. And even to them, there's a way, and a great team, a way to say, to send a message, reciprocate, diplomatically or less diplomatically. I think and really believe, and I recommend that the top state officials try to do it some time, whether they fight back or leave such a conference, because this is how they directly expose and humiliate not only themselves, but also the state of Serbia. I simply ask if something will be done and whether in the past something has been done about such undiplomatic and tactless incidents and statements, regardless of the known differences in attitudes. But one thing is to have differences in attitudes, and the other is to push your finger around representatives and the state of Serbia, at times when joint initiatives are announced, when this "little Schengen" is announced, and everything that is otherwise debateable and which should be discussed and discussed here in the National Assembly. My second question goes to the address of the Ministry of Ecology and the Ministry of Transport and concerns one already serious situation and announcements, announced by the president of the country at RTS, visiting the program "The Questionnaire", on November 5th, but then it was elaborated and we see it now in the media and in statements by the Minister of Ecology and some others that it is seriously working on it. It is about an announced ban on cars that have euro 3 engines and lower. So it should be said that the largest number of cars in Serbia has a Euro 3, Euro 2 engine and lower. Even 80 to 90% of Serbian vehicles have that standard. In doing so, unwarrantedly and normally not until the end defined, Mr. Vukic said in the mentioned show, quote: "We are getting richer, more cars are growing, more evaporation is increasing. That's why I talked to Fabrizio from the EU today to launch a new green plan, ban cars that have Euro 3 engines. "In doing so, it is not clear whether the ban is at all a use or a ban on imports. Post statements from the ministry and clarifications say it is still a ban on imports. But as reported, it could be understood that someone will stop and control our drivers and minors from taking or removing vehicles from Euro 3 and lower engine standards. Otherwise, it is said that only last year over 140,000 vehicles imported with this engine - fiati, Punto, golfers, Bravo, Polo, Golf 4, Golf 5 initially, Opel Corps, Astra, means the most popular and most frequently driven models in Serbia are this standard. I expect the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Ecology to explain and answer whether really exhaust gases are such a problem for environmental pollution or, as some studies say, the problem is something else, while exhaust and cars total traffic with 7% participate in the emissions of harmful particles, harmful gases. In that sense, I'd say it started from the wrong end, from something that directly hits citizens' standards, and minimally reduces the environmental hazard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63732	Thank you, Mr. Vukadinovic. The word now has a folk MP, Serbia's Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63733	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, many of the information that these days brings to the public about Mark Bastac, Bosko Obradovic, Dragan Djilas and others have upset the public in Serbia to a good degree, and I am asking these questions to the Higher Public Prosecutor's Office and the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Serbia. The questions refer to Mark Bastac, more recently known as Marco Bags. A certain Marko Kesa, the self-proclaimed president of the Old Town municipality from which I come as a national MP, is a man of reasonable doubt, I would say, on the basis of the claims of numerous witnesses, many people who participated in malfeasances with him, who felt a new time coming in the Old Town municipality, who felt that changes were coming, these people claim that Marko Bastic no longer increased his wealth from year to year by tens of thousands of euros more and more. The way Marko Bastic was rich, according to his wedding godfather, is that he brutally robbed investors, all those people who hire citizens of Serbia, citizens of the Old Town, citizens of Belgrade, all those people who support their families. Marko Bastic took bribes from at least 10, 15, 20, and tens of thousands of euros to build investors in the Old Town for illegal construction, and personally, according to his godfather's recognition, he brought them in envelopes. When one of the envelopes didn't bring him, Marco's Bag, the reputable president of the Old Town municipality decided to put a bag on his head, tie him up, beat him up, torture him for hours, strangle him, blackmail him. And it wasn't just him, you'll hear in the days ahead of us and weeks, many more people from the Old Town municipality, many people who are employed in the Old Town municipality, who are terrified, scared of what Marko Bastac did there. I will issue a question to the competent institutions of facts and figures at our disposal when it comes to robbery and malfeasance within the Municipality of Stari Grad. A number of criminal charges have also been filed for the occasion. I want to get an answer as far as the investigation is concerned, and what's the prosecution doing on this case? Imagine if anyone from the SNS had been made with such claims, we would be hanging from the Terrace. That's why we want with full rights, as people who are responsible for the citizens of Serbia, to get answers about what's going on with the money of the citizens of the Old Town, with the money of the citizens of Belgrade and Serbia? Where's the money listed? I will tell you this, since, of course, the city of Belgrade has filed criminal charges, I want to first get an answer – what about the money that was pumped out of the Sports Centre Milan Gale Muskatirovic in the period from January 1st to December 31st 2018? The inspection services identified numerous irregularities, numerous robberies that took place within the sports centre. I am Milan Gale Muskatirovic's Sports Centre in charge of a million euros. Watch out, one small sports center to charge a million euros. It should be an artist of robbery and theft and crime, such as Marko Bastic and former director of this sports centre Dusan Raikovic. Also, they abused the sports center in a number of ways, through renovations, through swimming lessons they said were happening there, and in fact, those classes were not there. This is all measured in hundreds of thousands of dinars where Milan Gale Muskatirovic allegedly received money, and that money was nowhere in the accounts. Also, at lunches in high-priced restaurants, Marko Bastic and his friends spent over 906,000 dinars. Also, he spent close to two million dinars on mobile phone services. The municipalities and companies involved in helping old and weary faces, watch this, they often talk about the problems of old faces, and how old faces should be helped, they stole over four million dinars. This shows the image of the authorities of Marko Bastac and Dragan Gilas in the municipality of Stari Grad. We want answers -- where's the money, where's tens of millions of dinars, where are the millions of euros that were robbed from the Old Town municipality? We want them to respond to the responsible faces. We want the money back for the citizens of the Old Town, the citizens of Belgrade, because the citizens of Belgrade didn't deserve to have such characters and freaks rule any municipality in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63734	Thank you, Mr Filipovic. I would like to inform you that he was prevented from attending the session of Professor Zarko Obradovic. We are going to search the details of the 1st item of the agenda – Proposal for an Amending and Supplemental Law on Road Corrections. We're going back to work. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the members of the National Assembly are invited to attend Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior, Milica Ćatic, Secretary of the Interior Ministry, Valentina Vulić, Head of the Department of Administrative Affairs at the Ministry of the Interior, Zoran Lazarov, Assistant Minister, Head of the International Co-operation, European Affairs and Planning Sector, Natasa Raketic, Deputy Chief of the Department for System Legal Affairs, and Maja Jestrović, Head of the Department for International Agreements. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Dubravko Bojic, Nemanja Sarović, Ružica Nikolic, Aleksandar Seselj, Petar Jojic, Milorad Mirčić, Vjerica Radeta, Sreto Perić, Nikola Savic, Tomislav Ljubenović, Zoran Despotović, Filip Stojanović and Marijan Rističević, as well as the Defence and Home Affairs Committee. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Here you go, Professor Boyich.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63735	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, ministers have just arrived with their associates, in the real flood of legal proposals that come from the Government of the Republic of Serbia to the National Assembly to vote, and in particular lately, today's Amendments and Supplements Act is one of the few not directly imposed by the EU Directive. Amendments and amendments are only complemented by cosmetic nature and relate to the 2007 Law. The SRS amendment refers to Article 1 of the existing Article 2(2). It's a bill of law. The word “haver” is replaced by the word “owner”. In an explanation for not accepting my amendment, you stated that the amendment is rejected because the term “holder” in the corresponding decline is used throughout the text of the Law on travel documents, and the adoption of the amendment in Article 2(2) would result in a termological inequality of the text of the law. Please, at first glance, the terms “holder” and “owner” are synonyms, which are essentially true. However, these two concepts are approaching somewhere, but in no case are equating. That's where I get into a lexic Semantic dimension of the language, because the holder doesn't mean the owner. The imam can be a person who illegally came up with a travel document, maybe found it, maybe stole it, and could abuse it. That is why I believe that my amendment offers a more precise solution and the right to tell you I expected my amendment to be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63736	Thank you, Professor Boyich. The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63737	I accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63738	Thank you, Mr. Minister. According to the amendment, Mrs. Zaric Kovacevic reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63739	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Minister Stefanovic, at first I would like to congratulate you on your willingness to publicly deny the heavy accusations placed on your account by the leaders of the Alliance for Serbia, as regards "Krusika", but it is also about your families and that you do not want to allow the lie to remain a lie, that you are doing that the citizens of Serbia know the truth at all times. It is clear to all of us that when you announced an investigation into Gilas' affairs and showed documentation as evidence of these affairs, then increased pressures on you and on your family began without even caring about what they were doing to the Republic of Serbia. Claims that Serbia allegedly supplies terrorists with weapons is a lie that can also have serious consequences, and one of them may also be the collapse of our dedicated industry. Several times it has been said and explained that the Ministry does not give permission to trade weapons, nor does the Minister of the Interior himself, but that there is a whole system in which many ministries participate, many services, many administrations, many sectors that have their own role and powers, and that the MUP only provides the transport of weapons through our country. Of course, if I understood it the right way, the minister would correct me if I was wrong. In any case, it is very clear that the charges do not stand and it is very clear which kitchen they come from. For the sake of the public and for the citizens of Serbia, I want to say why I call this alerter from Krusik a false alarmer. He did not get alarm status under the Alerter Protection Act, where he writes – if the information contains classified information, the alerter cannot alert the public. Also, he had not previously addressed either the employer or the authorised authority, and it is now very clear not only that he is not an alarmer, but that he is also in his defence of abuse of alarming status. So it is clear that a group of certain people from the Alliance for Serbia want to attack Nebojsa Stefanovic and Aleksandr Vukic, but also our dedicated industry and our military and military equipment and these procedures, they are actually working to endanger our country's security. They would like to return Krusik in 2000 when privatisation took place in which the factory's practically business not only brought into question but completely halted. We often talk in parliament about the results of Alexander Vukic's policy, the results of our government's work, and the question is why those who ruled until 2012 could boast in the area of the military or police or in any other area. They led a personal wealth policy, which is very clear to all citizens and Serbia's devasting in every sense, and we strive to put our shoulder to shoulder with the most developed countries in the world. The remains of those who also privatised Krusik and today show us what their relationship would be to Serbia, to its institutions, to the state authorities and to the citizens of Serbia if they again miraculously came to power, just as some new ones have appeared, who are now joined together in the Alliance for Serbia. For example, Bastac would tear down the squares, people who wouldn't want to do it with him might put bags on their heads and who knows what they'd do. Bosko Obradovic would slap around. First, he'd probably focus on women because we already know he's a great hero. What else would they do? They'd burn books, conduct a tent of politics in the park, run politics on the street, obsess over university buildings, it'd be democracy for them, blackmail, pressure, draw graphs on the buildings where our institutions are housed. So it's very clear what they would turn Serbia into, they would tear down everything we've done. I am absolutely sure that Serbian citizens will know in the elections that they appreciate our work, Alexander Vukic's policy and the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and that they will not allow it. Therefore, Mr Stefanovic and you personally and the bill proposals coming from your ministry, you have strong support from the SNS parliamentary group and we will support these proposals in voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63740	Thank you, Mrs. Žarić Kovacevic. The word is Zarko Bogatinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63741	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected ministers with associates, this amendment and the addition of the law, I suggest that the Law on Travel Documents has been improved, in accordance with regulations that have been amended or amended in the meantime. The competent authorities will function better and citizens will exercise their rights more effectively and efficiently. Special attention should be paid to amending the law, which prescribes a period of validity of passports, but is better due to better systematization of complemented, in order to make the provisions of the law more transparent and clearer. The passport may be issued with shorter period of validity than previously provided that the competent court, or the public prosecutor, permits it in the cases provided for in the law. This would prevent the abuse of a travel document by the person to whom the proceedings are being conducted. I also believe that it is necessary to add, in a described way, attitude 5, because it has been found in practice that it is not justified that a citizen who, for objective reasons of permanent character, cannot take fingerprints suffers from a sanction that his passport is issued for only a year. The proposed amendment of the law, in order to avoid the possibility of the use of passports, since it states that if a person loses or damages a passport twice over a five-year period, the next passport will be issued for a period of one year. I also believe that if a passport is issued for a shorter period than ten years, when a court, or a public prosecutor, can be issued for one or more trips to one or more states, it is necessary to delete it because it is practically not possible to issue a passport on which a citizen would travel, which would make that provision inapplicable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63742	Thank you, Mr. Bogatinovic. National MP Nemanja Sarovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63743	This is about passports issued with a shorter deadline of importance, and the SRS has also given amendments to this article and the basic member of the 19th Law, where they are governed by what cases they are. We believe that the public prosecutor, because it says here – on the proposal of the court, or the public prosecutor, cannot play any decisive role in shortening the deadline for, above all, underage persons, for children, because if there is a custody dispute between parents and if there is no agreement on the other side, until the dispute has been brought to an end, or if the dispute has just begun and has a preparatory phase, then the public prosecutor cannot decide instead of the court. You know, this process and process can take even a few years, so that kid can't travel for several years. Otherwise, that 19th member himself was completely undefined to the end. What are these situations, for what? So I suppose, Mr. Minister, that you had a good intention as a ministry, but you didn't pay attention to those facts that the processes themselves could take so long that this child who turned three and his passport was issued with that deadline, he might not be able to travel at all if there was no agreement on the other side, or other parent, because the litigation takes several years. That was the purpose of this amendment, and we think it would normally take a lot of the basic Article 19 to define it more precisely.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63744	Thank you, Mrs. Jovanovic. The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63745	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, although the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on travel documents will not bring about major changes, i.e. nothing fundamentally changes the existing law. We have, however, made the amendments that we have made, or we have specified those legal provisions that you are amending with this proposal, and the aim is to simplify administrative procedures. We intervened on a member referring to travel documents' validity deadlines. In fact, you all know that a number of health conditions cannot be treated in Serbia for various reasons, and these are some rare diseases whose treatment is conducted exclusively in certain health centres abroad. This applies most often to children suffering from locomotor system disease, then eye disease in prematurely born children and a certain rare central nervous system disease. At times, it takes a longer period of time for their treatment, i.e. several years, and we, in order to facilitate the procedure for issuing and validing passports to these persons who are in an extremely difficult situation, have suggested that in Article 2(2) of the amendment and that for the objective reasons of temporary character, the passport is issued with a period of validity of one year or until the end of treatment abroad and that if the person who is issued the passport in accordance with Article 2(2) goes abroad for treatment, it must be allowed to take at least as long as possible treatment, because, as I said, the treatment sometimes takes longer than the period provided for in the period of validity of the passport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63746	Thank you, Mrs. Nikolic. Now he has the word by amendment Olivera Pesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63747	I thank the chairman. My colleague said that change isn't essential. Amendments and additions to this law that they are not essential may not be, but will certainly eliminate the observed shortcomings in the application of this law. As for the specific amendment of the colleague, she submitted an amendment to Article 2 and Article 2 which she says – to a person who, for objective reasons of temporary character, cannot take fingerprints, the passport is issued with a period of validity of one year. Therefore, the proposal for this amendment was to supplement the sentence with – i.e. until the end of treatment abroad. I believe that this amendment should not be accepted, because attitude 2 or legal provision is quite precise and it applies to persons who, for objective reasons of temporary character, cannot take fingerprints. Therefore, there is no link in this article to persons referred to abroad and I therefore do not believe that this amendment should be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63748	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Zarko Bogatinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63749	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected ministers with associates, this amendment and the amendment of the law also provides for a change when issuing passports to a person outside the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the request can be submitted via the competent diplomatic or consular representative of the Republic of Serbia, who will without delay forward to the authority responsible for issuing passports, not in any case, as has been the case so far for the city of Belgrade, to resolve, but to the police administration towards the residence, or to the residence of the person who submits the request, which will certainly speed up this procedure and reduce costs. Also, the application for the issuing of passports may be submitted at the earliest six months before the expiry of the passport, and this would be the first time the deadline for submission of applications would be prescribed, with amendments to the law providing for the possibility of issuing the passport before this deadline, with the payment of adequate and increased fees. This makes it easier for our citizens to apply for passports even before the deadline, especially if they have a place of residence in a foreign country. Finally, the position of a minor child and parents who exercise parental rights has been greatly facilitated in practice so far, since they have been a large number of cases where parents do not live in a married, or out of wedlock, and they exercise common parental law, and one of the parents, due to the negligence of another parent, has been forced to initiate judicial proceedings for the partial deprivement of parental rights that can last for months. The procedure for parents exercising parental law would be significantly simplified and a minor would be easier to obtain a travel document than the case has been so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63750	Thank you, Mr. Bogatinovic. The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Here you go, Mr. Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63751	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. So we had a unique situation, in which Minister Stefanovic participated, which is an attempt to kidnap children, I think some citizens of France, if I'm not mistaken. So you're in on it, too, i.e. You participated in this prevention and it was a public topic. So this amendment is improving, i.e. There is more security in place because the period of validity of the passport, i.e. travel documents for children are reduced because there is a drastic change in the appearance of children in that age. Thus, the passport is changed to persons under the age of three, with a period of validity of one year, between three and seven years, with a period of validity of three years, and persons from seven to 14 years, with a period of validity of five years. For these very reasons, especially me, so the state of Serbia has already had such an example, who knows how many such examples failed to prevent in the past, it should be taken care of and that this solution is improved in this way and that more security is given first of all to parents, and also in the future, if a similar situation ever happened to us again. So, just one useful and well - meaning counselling to change this solution.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63752	Thank you, Mr. Seselj. The word has a minister, Mr. Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63753	We have not accepted this amendment for several reasons. First of all, this would expose Serbian citizens to high costs, costs higher than those they would have to be exposed to. Especially since this law today gives you the opportunity to change your passport, to change your child whenever you want, you can change his passport for a month whenever you want. You can see that the child has changed a little bit, you go and change the passport, and that's one of the intensities of this law was, to allow people who, for any reason or reason of life and any other, need to change their passport within, shorter than the ones that the law has predicted so far, that they can do so at any time. So, in addition to the cost, we don't think changing the character of a child in that period is so drastic. There are children, of course, it's an individual thing and that's why we've provided that opportunity for those parents who think it would improve their children's safety, that's what they do. At this point, I'm glad you noticed that, too. The police of the Republic of Serbia are very successful in establishing the security system of the Republic of Serbia. We are truly successful in preventing any harm or harm from our children, and we will continue to fight for the system to be even better.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63754	Thank you, Mr. Stefanovic. The word now has Dr Dragana Barisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63755	Thank you, Your Honor. With all due respect to the promoter of this amendment, I believe, as the minister said, that it should be rejected because in the previous period we showed, especially the MUP, that we care about all the citizens of our Republic, and above all about our children. These changes, not only do they touch the fact that they care about the financial stability of our citizens and less about issuing travel documents, and the character of a child we know that our parents don't change so often, so I think the proposal for a change through this amendment is really inadequate. The ministry has shown that the concern for all citizens is first, that child safety concerns are also first, and this shows through the adoption of many laws in the past few years, and that Serbia is now a modern, well-ordered and stable Serbia, not Serbia as left us by the Dossmanlian enterprise, Serbia in which it was afraid to go out on the streets, and in essence the politics of the current boycotters of the Parliament's work shows that they only have violence and lynch in the first place, and that they are not interested in anything else. So, I believe that this amendment should be rejected, and that the law should be passed and the MPs of the SNS will give full support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63756	Thank you, Mrs. Barisic. Right on the line, Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63757	It is that they can now take out whenever they want, but as favourable as the environment is now to do such a thing in some efficient, i.e.. In short, because we still have, in addition to all these digitalization mantras, great obstacles to doing something in some time that would be satisfactory. Parents can't just deal with a team if they can change their passport to make it another preoccupation, to make it another obligation. That's what someone does if they're going on a trip, and the question is, how long is it in Serbia today? We've seen that we now have digitalization, what can be done, so we can use a flying car, teleport, etc., and we still have problems collecting this data, i.e.. These documents to change anything, i.e. to get it out. It's still waiting just as long. If that were to make it easier, then maybe it would make sense that someone could change when they wanted to, so let them change every day if they wanted to, but to enable the ambience to be able to do it effectively, not to target whether it would be 15 days, a month, three months or so. It's a thing that's supposed to change to make sense that someone can change a travel document whenever they want. It's meant to be safe, especially in order to be safe, and no one will change that and do it as well as he doesn't do now, because he doesn't like the picture or I don't know what. Let him change whenever he wants, but that he can do it in an efficient way, not that after that and the obligations and everything else plans according to how long he will wait for our trom, heavy, slow administration in this regard.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63758	Thank you, Comrade Seselj. The word has a proposalary representative, Deputy Prime Minister, Interior Minister Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63759	I'm afraid this is a segment where you're obviously not well informed. The administration is tied to the Administration of Administrative Affairs, whose head is here next to me on my left and the Information, Analysis and Information Technology Sector of the MUP. Although he has a 30-day legal period to issue a passport, he betrays all passports for the longest seven days. So, a citizen applying for a passport gets it within seven days. In moments when summer traffic, pressure, even replacement after ten years, is the highlight of biometric passports, within seven days. In many cases they issued passports in less than three days. So if something works in terms of issuing travel documents, all citizens, here and here are the MPs who, you can see by colleagues who confirm, who demanded passports, they got them in record time. This is a really efficient mechanism, and I want to thank the people of the Department of Administrative Affairs and, of course, the Information and Analyticals Sector, who is making a great deal of efforts to solve these cases with great numbers of demands.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63760	Thank you, Minister. According to the amendment, the word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go, colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63761	I thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, when it comes to the provisions of Article 2, I personally think it is well-regulared and points to some problems that have not been solved properly so far. Not only are the emergency deadlines and the short deadlines that you have rightly indicated, when it comes to issuing a travel document, and when it comes to applying for urgent treatment. There were several amendments here that had extremely well-intentioned motives and nothing controversial, especially counterpart Natasa Jovanovic. However, it does not seem to me that with the right understanding and good interpretation of the provisions of the law, it is acceptable that what relates to the jurisdiction of the prosecutor, or the court. From the point of view of case law, honourable ministers should inform citizens that it is neither the court nor the prosecutor who will delay the proceedings when it comes to granting consent. What's this about? It is the procedural solutions where the so-called urgency of the proceedings is taken into account, where there are procedural mechanisms that involve the court's obligation to decide urgently, i.e. urgently resolve the case and thus enable the parties to obtain a travel document as soon as possible. So it's not about divorce litigation that's going to take a long time, it's not about family legal disputes that also involve spending a huge amount of time, or a large time distance. It is a matter of procedural possibilities for both the court and the prosecutor's office to speed up the proceedings and therefore make a decision giving consent. Therefore, in the case-law, which, in some ways, I belong to, these precisely exist, involve emergency resolutions, which involve urgency in the procedure by both the court and the prosecutor and the nature of the delivery of the decision to the parties immediately, so that the party may, on the basis of the decision of the court, exercise its right before the competent authorities of the Ministry of Interior, and the right to urgently obtain a travel document. What is very important to point out is the fact that this is about children, the youngest, and given that custody of children is legally tied to parents as legal advocates or is entrusted to judicial decisions by parents, it is quite logical that parents are the ones who have the identity of applicants require when it comes to children. The needs of children are in no way doubtful here, and therefore, honourable ministers, I think this is a very well-regulared and this provision of the law should remain in force and of course we will vote for it, a team before the Ministry of the Interior when it comes to childcare has shown more than great commitment, commitment and professionalism in conduct. This is where my colleague Seselj pointed out the abduction of a minor child, which was recently in the case of a minor boy being kidnapped for attempting to commit an extortion, which was prevented by the Ministry of the Interior. What the citizens of the Republic of Serbia should in some way maintain in a high degree of confidence in the Ministry of the Interior is your urgency in handling and what is most important – your non-interference in the work of the judicial authorities, because you, within the limits of your jurisdiction, are indeed professionally doing the part of the work that is required under the law and prescribed jurisdiction, which is the collection of operational data, facts and evidence based on which to establish or base suspicion that someone has committed a criminal act. It remained at the judicial institutions, specifically in the prosecution and courts. I will only remind myself that one such professional approach by the Ministry of the Interior and all those who work in the Ministry has been verified in this particular section to carry out their official duties, or duties. In the case of Cosmajca, concrete evidence was collected, facts were collected, the operational work established a lot, which could have served for further processing. So neither the ministry nor the executive government nor the first Deputy Prime Minister Dacic, nor President Vukic freed that man, but exclusively the court. Therefore, it is evidence of the non-interference of the executive authority in the area of that part of the work relating to the judicial authority. That's why you have SPS support for such dedicated and professional work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63762	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. According to the amendment, the People's MP, the Prophet of Radet. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63763	Thank you. It's not a good explanation we've heard from the minister or from a colleague, Jovanovic. Article 19 should be seen in a comprehensive way, i.e. Article 19 of the basic law. You, Minister, are in collegiate with what this article says. You say, and it's okay, you can passport for underage children to be taken out any minute if the parent notices that the physical appearance of a child is different, etc., and how did you write that the persons of three to 14 years of life are issued with a five-year-old validity period? Imagine in this period of life how much the physical appearance of a child changes within five years. And do not grieve your parents, you say, for the cost of costing. Don't feel sorry for your parents for paying passport fees, or reduce passport fees to children so that passports can be taken in a shorter period of time, because I guess the safety of children is the most important and the state can correct these taxes there a little bit. As it is not true, Minister, what you said, you said there was an associate who, you said, is the chief of staff who issues passports, that passports are obtained in seven days. We can accept that from the day the application is filed, but do you have any information that it is electronically impossible to submit a request within 30 to 45 days? He tells you there – he can't, all 30 to 45 days are busy. Well, then, when you accidentally stab that free term and sign up for passport release, then it's issued within seven days. So it's not as great as you're trying to introduce us. As it is absolutely unacceptable that the issuing of passports that are issued before time is decided by the prosecutor without a court, because again it is about underage children, and you know well what kind of abuses exist, the possibility of abuse, what kind of things happen. Mr. Alexander Seselj told you that you yourself spoke about some cases where you were engaged, but it should be a matter of us creating a legal framework for your activities to be reduced to a minimum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63764	Thank you, colleague Radeta. The speech has a representative of the government's vice-president and interior minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63765	The truth works, it's not always easy to schedule the electronics, there's certain suffocations, but anyone who couldn't schedule the electronics, at the same time could go to the police station anywhere, and never be returned on the counter. Therefore, any citizen who had joined the Administration of Administrative Affairs, at any point where the Ministry of Interior carried out that activity, could have competed in that day, that is to say, to request the issuing of a travel document and to have the travel document issued within seven days. So that's what we've been explaining to people, because a huge number of people, almost three million people, have tried to replace the travel document in a relatively short time, our people are always waiting for the last term. If the passports expire in those 30 days, they all came then. That's one of the reasons why we noticed the need for people to be able to replace that passport much earlier. As for Mrs Vulic, who is here head of the Department of Administrative Affairs of the Ministry of the Interior, she can testify to how effective this service really is. I'm not saying that everything is ideal, but as far as they're concerned, truly committed professionals get travel documents within seven days, even though the law says we're due 30 days. So, if they were betrayed in 29 days, they would be within the legal deadline, and people are trying really hard to really be up to seven days, given that people have travel needs, that they often remember a few days before they need a passport or some country requires their passport to be valid for more than six months, etc. In that sense, I don't think that remark stands. Is the child's character changing? It's safe to change from seven to 14 years, and that's where we can agree. He'll change in three years, if we put a three-year period of validity. And a 10-year-old kid will have a different character than a seven-year-old. So we tried to find a balance between the needs of parents, the savings in their budget, in the sense that they didn't have to take out those passports at all times, and the need for child safety. On the other hand, as far as the public prosecutor is concerned, the public prosecutor was put here in the context of the law not in the sense that it would prevent the child from obtaining a passport or a minor, but when certain procedures are being conducted that the public prosecutor might play a role in making a decision not to issue a travel document, i.e. to stop the procedure for issuing a travel document. In that sense, in the sense that a minor can be denied, it can only be done by the court, of course.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63766	Thank you. Comrade Radeta, you want a replica of the Minister's presentation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63767	The problem is that in the next, one of the next members, we're going to talk about what you're giving the prosecution and the possibility of deciding to issue a travel document to the parent alone without the consent of the other parent. So, you should delete the prosecution here at all as a possible organ will decide this. When it comes to trying to prove to us how the issuing of passports works, so we can tell you on dozens of examples that whenever the electronic system is suppressed, then citizens who want to change the passport the truth can file a request on the counter, but you can't get to the counter if you don't wait at least three, four, five hours and you have to get in line to fit for about five, half six, or to go from one police station to another in Belgrade, where you need to lose more than one day again. So we're not going to argue that you don't have a good intention of really putting this in order, but it's still pretty far from orderly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63768	Thank you, colleague Radeta. According to the amendment, the People's MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić has the word. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63769	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers with Associates, fellow MPs and MPs, of course this amendment should not be accepted, but I must say that the Ministry of Administrative Affairs, the Department of Administrative Affairs, and how it meets the needs of citizens in a quick and efficient way when it comes to issuing travel documents. What the paper and what the MUP started for the first time since the document was made is that the first mobile information centre opened in the village of Kovacevic, the Municipality of Mladenovac just so that citizens can get all information related to the work of the MUP, or police, as well as to allow them to extract personal documents. Such mobile information centres, especially in towns far away from the city and especially in settlements where nursing households or where people are older, which are more difficult to move and which are further away from police administrations, will also mean a lot to the MUP, of course intends that such mobile information centres are equipped with the most modern equipment be spread across the territory of the entire Republic of Serbia. What, of course, I must commend, is that somewhere in the focus of these amendments and the addition of the law, is among other things the protection of the best interests of children. This protection of the best interests of children, the MUP, is working in co-operation with other state bodies that are also focused on protecting the best interests of children, including social work centres, courts and other bodies. Also, I want to point out that in order to protect the interests of children, the MUP has done much to detect drug traffickers only in this year 19 organized drug trafficking groups have been discovered, 110 persons have been processed all for the sake of the future and the safety of our children. It is also designed to protect those sensitive, and these are patients, or sick persons. The interior ministry signed a memorandum of co-operation with the Ministry of Health in order to hire helicopters that after 40 years the MUP received these are the most modern "Erbas" helicopters with the most modern medical equipment at the service of the Ministry of Health for the transfer of patients who need to be transferred from one place to another. I would also like to commend, and also as regards the safety and safety of children The memorandum of co-operation and police work that is done and carried out in the community, and especially in primary schools when it comes to child safety, where children at their earliest age are familiar with the dangers they are threatening and on the Internet about the abuse of psychoactive substances, when children are familiar with the mode of respect for traffic signs, etc. All in all, the MUP is doing everything to ensure security and security, and issuing travel documents is certainly part of the security of every citizen of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63770	Thank you. According to the amendment, the word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63771	Thank you, Chairman. I must remain in the position that this provision of the proposed text of the law is good and that this norm should not be changed. The decrees that the prosecutor, or competent public prosecutor, should be removed from this norm would lead to senselessness for the simple reason that the prosecutor is not out of court, he is tied to the court and is tied to a court case. The Criminal Code also provides for certain security measures which are specifically linked to the confiscation of cases where one such measure is and the seizure of passports. Which means that the public prosecutor also has a role to play when it comes to the question of anything relating to travel documents both to the perpetrator and to those involved with the perpetrators of criminal acts. So here the court and the prosecutor have some connection, and we can't at least eliminate them from this norm, and therefore in relation to the Criminal Code. In addition, she is right, a respected colleague, Jeftovic, who pointed out that procedures are being conducted by cooperating with other institutions, as well as with centres for social work, when it comes to the interests of the child, and here are the interests of the child. Therefore, this standard should remain as proposed, and amendments that are extremely well-intentioned still cannot be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63772	Thank you. According to the amendment, the word has been given by MP Studenka Stojanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63773	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, this topic of travel documents has given me the idea of pointing out the next thing. This initiative by the President of the Republic on the free flow of people, goods and capital in the region is exactly what the whole region needs, should be a signal that it is the right time for us all to show our European maturity together. All countries in the region, whether already members of the EU, whether they are in the process of negotiations, whether they claim to open negotiations have the same goal, a higher degree of development, better economic growth, a problem with population migration that is unhappy with living standards, and each of these countries is waiting for a better time. I think that every once in a while, if we all create conditions together to achieve our goals that are certainly common to us. Our citizens are in common because whether someone lives in Serbia, Macedonia, Albania, or another country in the region, he wants a living standard that is better, higher pay, better conditions that every single country can achieve only if it develops economically. The Balkan countries need faster development and we can reach it together. In addition to travelling without passports, i.e. only with a personal ticket to the countries of the region, the introduction of common customs controls at border crossings is possible to save money that is measured hundreds of millions of euros according to initial estimates. So, saving money, saving time, the ability to exchange human resources between companies. It will mean big companies, a large number of investors to invest in our countries. So this idea is supported by both the United States and European officials, because that's how they see our countries operate right through the economy and the ability of mutual economic co-operation. So that's what they're asking of us. The initiative is a major step forward, and as I have already said, it should show a degree of European maturity for countries in the region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63774	Thank you, colleague. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Rade. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the People's Messenger is the Prophet of the Prophet of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63775	I'm not sick, God forbid. There are different motives for submitting amendments. In any case, as far as we're concerned, the SRS has always intended to improve the text of the law. This amendment of ours is a legal-technical editorial essentially, like your amendment to the Minister's legal-technical redecoration. You're here calling for a termological alignment with the Personal Data Protection Act, and you know we've had serious objections to that law and every time we from the Government draw attention to you that when you're calling, so you can say why you don't want to accept our amendment, then call on some law that obliges you as if that other law is the Constitution. Well, we are also telling you through this amendment that neither the law is good nor that there was any reason why we are now at all discussing amendments and additions to the Law on travel documents, because here when all of this is considered there is no serious objection or any serious change, and then you love, because the end of the year is coming, and then when the Government is taking a report somewhere at some conference, then you're going to say how much you've proposed the law to the National Assembly, and the majority are going to say how many laws have been passed, and in that large number of laws, so probably, one third of them are just changing and complemented by all the few members of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63776	Thank you, colleague Radeta. The word has been given by MP Milija Miletic, as amended. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63777	Thank you. Dear Ministers, fellow Members of Parliament, I think the amendment submitted by my colleague, Verica, is in that part technically, which says with the corrections, but I think a lot of the things that we are now giving this law the opportunity to help our people to care for things faster and better, in a more efficient way, it's the right thing to do, and I think that the Ministry that you're leading is the Ministry that is really moving forward. It is a great opportunity for our people, not only for those who work at the Ministry to have better conditions and to ensure a safer life for every citizen of ours wherever in which part of our Serbia may be. The interior ministry, you at the head of the ministry, has shown that the way it is done is a way that deserves more attention and that normally our citizens in every part of our Serbia, in our villages, feel more free and that many of the works that took place in the previous period are being resolved quickly, efficiently and in the best way. I know one more thing. Since my father was a police officer, he is now retired, that people who wear uniforms, and even those without uniforms working in that ministry, are honest, honest, valuable and work the interests of our country of Serbia and I will always support all these bill proposals that improve conditions for those people who do dark work, especially that our citizens in every part of our community and our communities, or environments, that they can provide themselves with the necessary documents more effectively and thus complete some of the tasks that are important to their existence, for the better life of them and their families. Once again I will vote in favour of this bill since earlier when we talked about the law I didn't have time to say, I think the law is good, that the law should be respected and I, as MP and president of the United Peasants' Party, will support the bill and support you and our government and our president of Serbia because I think it is necessary for the benefit of all Serbia and all of us.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63778	I thank my colleague Miletic. The amendment was submitted to the 6th Amendment by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63779	We are very surprised to Minister Stefanovic that you did not accept this amendment and we really expect from fellow members of the assembly to do so in the day for the office to vote. For the sake of the public, this amendment applies to Article 29. Proposal for a basic law on the subject, on the submission of a request for minor or commercially incompetent persons for the issue of passports. You have here provided for the possibility that an exception to this first attitude that suggests that a minor or a business incompetent person submits a travel document to one of the parents, with the written consent of the other parent, or another legal representative or guardian. You have made an exception here that a minor can be issued a travel document without the consent of another parent, and then you explain that you cannot accept the amendment, because it is done in cases where judicial disputes about custody persist, etc. That's exactly why you can't let one parent who can get the consent of the Centre for Social Work, because you know well everyone who does what social work centres do and one parent can buy 200 euros, get the consent to steal a literally child and take him somewhere in the white world, before the custody dispute is over. This is a very dangerous provision, and we don't believe you didn't accept this, and you're still saying that this is done, to point out in an explanation why you don't accept our amendment, that it's just an exception. Why do you need such an exception in the law? So you yourself admit that this is dangerous and that only as some exception do you allow it. We suggest that you delete this nicely and not put it into a situation that some parent can take without the consent of another parent, out of the country to take the child. You know very well that this is happening, Minister Stefanovic, you know well. We've met all of us in the media, we know perfectly how the rope works between lawyers, the Social Labour Centre, the courts that decide on it. Believe me, it's a very dangerous provision and you're not too late, accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63780	I'd like to thank my colleague, Radet. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63781	Article 7 refers to a member of the 30th existing Law on travel documents and title above Article 30 – Annexes to the request. Request for a travel document. This law was passed in 2007 and then we didn't have the prime minister or Anna Brnabic, we didn't have the exposure that was so highlighted, that we would be digitized in the future, or the state administration. The basis for issuing a travel document, passports, official passport, diplomatic, travel document or travel documents issued on the basis of an international contract is citizenship. Nationality is proven on the basis of conviction. When someone wants to take a travel document, it is issued under the law, not under official duty, it is enough to come and say what it is called, JMBG continues to act on its request and to issue a travel document. Mr. Minister, it wouldn't be bad, some things have been improved, we see, we've been monitoring the work of the government's authorities, but there's still a long wait, when it comes to applying for a conviction on citizenship, when it comes to Serbs from Republika Srpska, Montenegro and other parts of Serbia, it's still two or three years to do so. Try to speed up the process a little bit, there's a reason for it, you don't need to explain it specifically now. This amendment should have been accepted and most of all there are really technical changes that do not have some great meaning in the real life of Serbian citizens, perhaps this reduction in the period when a request for a passport can be submitted at the earliest six months before it expires, so because some countries are asking that there can be no less than three months of the importance of this travel document, that may be the only reason why this should have changed. This second, once you have joined application, you should have accepted the amendments of the SRS because they would have partially improved this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63782	Thank you, colleague Perich. According to the amendment, the People's MP Zarko Bogatinovic has. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63783	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected ministers with their associates, this amendment and the addition of the Law have been simplified by the procedure of issuing passports, and compliance with the Law on General Administrative Procedure has been carried out by obtaining the necessary documents, such as assurance of the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia and a copy of the birth certificate, thus reducing the possibility for citizens to be rejected. The new law on travel documents would comply with the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure, given that the new Criminal Procedure Act provides for the adoption of orders to conduct an investigation rather than solutions as previously prescribed. Article 38. The draft legislation on travel documents comes under the terms of the principle of effectiveness and economicity of the procedure, since the border control of the suspended travel documents will be delivered to the police administration or station which issued the passport, not as it has been to the Ministry of Interior in Belgrade so far, all in order to reduce the costs of the procedure and the time duration of delivery. The proposed amendment introduces the possibility that notification of the facts resulting in the termination of the grounds for refusal of the request and the withdrawal of the travel document in addition to the court may be delivered by the party itself. Finally, when it comes to invalid travel amendments, the law would initially be declared invalidally advertised on the official web presentation of the MUP. In this way, it would reduce the cost of the citizens paying a fee for advertising the travel document invalid in the Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia. This could also improve the general security situation, as any authorised person could check whether the passport has been stolen, in order not to commit abuses in the sense that an invalid passport gives rise to rights that do not normally belong to citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63784	Thank you, colleague Bogatinovic. The word is made by MP Dragana Barisic, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63785	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues, I respect that the amendment's proposal said it wanted to technically improve the proposal of this law, but this time I want to remind, first of all, all of our citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because it is our duty to remind them, that exactly the MUP has managed to provide safe Serbia, a stable Serbia, Serbia in which our children can move freely and that we mothers do not have to worry, as we were worried by 2012. What I would add to this, when this is about the Ministry and at all all the laws that have been passed in the previous period, is that it was just thinking that the members have a good position, that the apartments of the members of the security structures were thought of, but what I want to point out at this point is that for the first time, perhaps, in our history, the successful co-operation of all security structures, means, the Ministry of Defence, the MUP, and above all, the bia. That's why ministers and directors of BIA are deserved, and I want to commend all of them on this occasion. Thanks to this, we have managed to ensure security in our country, to enable us to visit all high-risk gatherings safely, and you will admit that there have been more high-risk gatherings in our country in the previous period, and these fail to provide even more orderly countries in the world. So, our defence minister, our interior minister and BIA director, are really working successfully, and we, citizens of Serbia, are grateful to them for that. As I said earlier, the bill of this law is truly commendable and we will also support this law in the day of voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63786	Thank you, colleague Barisic. The word has a People's MP, according to the amendment, the Prophet of Radeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63787	In voting day, we won't support this law because it's bad. But this amendment currently under discussion should have been accepted. The explanation that you from the government gave us you wrote something in order, as if you thought we wouldn't read what it says here. You're saying what we're saying and what we've been asking for with the amendment has nothing to do with your promised digitization. We told you, and when Ana Brnabic told you about this digitisation, we Serbian radicals have nothing against digitisation, that we have nothing against advanced technologies. On the contrary. But we told you you wouldn't be able to do everything you promised, at least not at the speed you promised. It's a lot of, of course, your empty promises, but now that we're talking about this, then we really need to distract you that what you wrote is not good. You say - in a request for a travel document, it is attached to the insight of the valid identity card of the Republic of Serbia and so on and you say it has nothing to do with digitisation. If your face gives you his home number, doesn't he have an officer in front of him automatically his picture and his fingerprint and all possible and impossible data? So how's he gonna get a passport from someone who lost their ID? I lost my ID, and he needs a passport. There's no way he can get a passport here, according to what you wrote in the law. Even more pointless is this second position, where you say that the travel document is issued on the basis of the assurance of the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, the birth certificate, as well as other public documents, and whenever it is written by others and similar and so on, it means nothing or can mean anything and it is always the basis for abuse and the possibility of corruption for those working on these jobs... So, other public documents proving the data of the request, which the authority will obtain under official duty and instead of putting a point here, you say – except in cases where the party wants to obtain the necessary documents. Which party wants to go around five counters to get to the sixth to look for a passport? Well, that's exactly what you were talking about, and we support that all of this stuff ends up on one counter. You know, Zorana Mihajlović, for example, your colleague, says that we, I don't know which building permit is on the list and says building permits are issued in 28 days and says the application is filed on one counter. Yes, but what you're saying and what she's saying would mean - come, submit a request with your data, with information about the plot, your desire what you want to build and the rest to be provided in that local self-government or ministry, depends on the building that is being built. No, but again as before, 17 different permits must be obtained to get those 17 permits on one counter to issue a permit in 28 days. Well, in that case, a building permit should be issued in seven days. This is a crackdown, but it speaks about how your government works and it shows through this amendment, which was signed on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group Sreto Peric. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63788	Thank you, colleague Radeta. The word has a proposalary representative, Deputy Prime Minister, Interior Minister Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63789	Of course you're wrong about this case, specifically, because you haven't carefully considered all the circumstances that can happen. Under the Administrative Procedure Act, a state authority is required to obtain within 15 days all documents to a citizen who requires, for example, a travel document. You need travel correctness for three days and you are looking for an emergency procedure and you want to pay for it, you have the right to collect documents yourself, because you will not wait for the state authority to spend seven or nine days in accordance with the law to obtain your documents. That is why a provision has been left that the citizen can also collect the documents on his own. He's got them on him and he'll bring them in within a day and he'll turn them in. So you have this opportunity to do so by the state for you, and you have the right to do it yourself to fulfill your role, or your need if you have. As for the identification of a person, it is under the law of every adult citizen to carry a ID card. I don't see any problem in identifying an officer who's going to determine whether that person is even authorized to file such a request, whether he has the right to handle the data that is the parent number j in any way. If he loses his ID card, he can always, if he owns the ID card, demand that he issue a new ID card, and again, by an emergency procedure to be betrayed, so he won't waste much time there either. I think it's one negligible number of cases that citizens are looking for the release of lost ID cards, so I'm sure this won't be an obstacle to anyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63790	Thank you, Minister. Comrade Radeta, would you like a replica of the Minister's presentation? Yeah. ) The word has a People's Messenger, the Prophet of Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63791	If you know there's one case, here's why you've now asked your associates, so they've confirmed to you that these are rare cases, if you know there's one case, then that's more reason to accept our amendment and to regulate it by law. Why would you leave the possibility that as Prime Minister, as he says, they suggested here or the majority of the assembly suggested... The assembly majority passed the Public Transport Act because of taxi drivers and the "Kargo" driver and then the Prime Minister, who signed the bill, says -- "Kargo" uses holes in the law. That law proposed three months ago, the assembly majority adopted and said they use holes in the law? We're telling you, we're warning you these amendments that you don't make holes in the law, but the laws are concise, precise, applicable, and that as little opportunities as possible for the abuse of these laws. All that stuff you said earlier, Minister, it doesn't say anything and that's the problem. You tell someone they need a passport in three days, and the General Administrative Procedure Act says what time it is to get the paperwork. Where does it say you're issuing a passport within 24 hours? Someone needs it, and it doesn't say anything. We're not saying this isn't happening, but it doesn't say anything. Why didn't you explain why you often said if the party wants to get the necessary papers? Why didn't you say in what cases? This is unspeakable. It's something like that in general. You say it's an obligation for everyone to wear a ID card. True, it's an obligation for everyone to keep their ID card. That's true. The obligation is then, let's say, the police to keep every citizen's ID card so he doesn't have anyone on the bus stealing his ID card and that man might not notice for five days that his ID card was lost and he needs a passport, he goes, he takes out, and there's no ID card in his wallet, lost, stolen, I don't know what happened to her. So you're saying yourself that such a possibility exists and it's only our question -- then why don't you accept the amendment and that what exists as a possibility of being part of the law? It's very simple and simple. We don't know what bothers you to accept the amendments to the SRS? We, here, prove to you, have been full for three years now, and four years now, that we are the most serious political party on the political scene in Serbia, that we are the largest opposition political party in the National Assembly, that we are doing this job in extreme, safe, professional terms above all. You don't God want to accept such a cosmetic amendment, and you don't accept any essentials. Try the Ministers, don't hurt, you'll see.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63792	Thank you, colleague Radeta. The word has a representative of the promoter, Deputy Prime Minister, Interior Minister Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63793	I can't accept it when you're wrong. Here, you said a few minutes ago why don't you say it, it doesn't say anything that someone can be betrayed in three or two days and you're wrong. I will deny you immediately – Article 34. The Law on travel documents states: “Extremely from the provisions of Articles 1 and 2 of this Article, in urgent cases, the need for emergency treatment abroad, the notification of death, the serious illness of a member of a family, the urgent official pathway or other justified reasons, if evidence confirming the reasons of urgency is accompanied, the competent authority shall issue a travel document no later than 48 hours from the time of application. ” So it's very precise. It's even been put in for how many hours. To make it a citizen is left with the possibility of getting his own documents. He doesn't say commitment. The citizen has a possibility, if anyone has documents that he may have taken out for some other reason, so they're already ready and he won't wait. He doesn't want to wait for a 15-day legal deadline for the PDO to be met, he's right. It doesn't have to, it can leave it to a state body that may not spend all 15 days, but it's a risk that someone looking for a passport in a shorter time then had to accept. This is how you get out in accordance with the law early, and he's looking, he's willing to pay, and so on. So that's why I can't accept it. It's just that you're wrong.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63794	Thank you, Minister. Right on the line, the People's Messenger of the Faith of the Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63795	It's just that you're wrong. If you were a lawyer, as you weren't, then you'd understand that you're right out of that... You're kind of representing oral literature. What you're saying here, you should have connected through these two members of the law. No more than that.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63796	Thank you, colleague Radeta. According to the amendment, the People's MP, Milija Miletic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63797	I would again support the bill and the amendment in the same way as the minister explained. From the very life on the ground, I can say that really in a large number of places, specifically in my community where I come from, the Srlig, which is a poor municipality, where a lot of old people who live in our villages are coming and who at any moment can apply for that system of accelerated procedures, where really in a few days comes the ID that is needed. So that's what I'm saying because I know. We're a small place and everyone knows each other, so what's now proposed by law is given the possibility of ending it even faster. Otherwise, a large number of people on the territory of Srlig and our surrounding municipalities that are close to us can at any time all citizens, whether they are in any part of the municipality of the region, can finish the job, by just having to report it and to explain the request for the speedy acquisition of that ID. I think this law is really high-quality, and I think we need to do this because it's the interest of all of us, because we're witnessing that it's... Our country of Serbia is a great and beautiful country. It's the most beautiful country in the world. There are a lot of our municipalities that are in a difficult situation. Old people live there, mountain-mounted areas. Now every man can come and fix his problem quickly. I would once again thank the Minister for proposing this law, because it gives the possibility to do much faster things, without any new costs. Otherwise, I spoke yesterday, and today I will say, since we all know that one great saint, the Holy Witch and a great number of our homes of health celebrate this glory. I want everyone here in the Assembly, all the citizens of Serbia, to celebrate in health, happiness and joy the glory of the Holy Witch, that this coming year be born and noble both in the field and in the house. Dear Ministers and Deputy Prime Minister Dr Stefanovic, you are doing your job in the best way. Our government is doing great, while our President Vukic is working for all of us in the best way for Serbia. Thanks again. I, as MP and president of the United Peasants' Party, will support this law and all that is needed to live in every part of our municipality in the same way as in Belgrade, Novi Sad and the cities that have been developed.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63798	Thank you, fellow Miletic. According to the amendment, the People's MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63799	Mr. Minister, you should have accepted this amendment, because with all this argument for our citizens brought to you by a colleague of Radeta and applicant Sreto Peric, there is also a problem concerning foreign citizens. If you do not accept this amendment, you will also bring our countrymen from Republika Srpska, Montenegro, as well as other foreigners who exercise their rights under the Law on Citizenship in the Republic of Serbia that they cannot get a passport and have the necessary documentation to do so. It is amazing that in the era of this government which, this is said by one of your members on whom the amendment was submitted by fellow Mircic, about the electronic record of all personal data processing, you are now looking for a physical one document, in this case a personal card, to give someone the opportunity to issue a passport to him. That's amazing, because you passed the law in this mandate on the record of personality data at the Ministry of the Interior. Well, isn't it logical, as in any other country, if you come to the MUP unit, to that consular representation, because that law says who can have access to that unique data record, the birth number, the birth certificate, the citizenship copy. This is how you will bring into the situation people who, for example, are here because of the conclusion of marriage with the citizen of the Republic of Serbia, and these are foreigners, who can't still get by law because the law on foreigners regulates it in a different way, the personal map of the Republic of Serbia, but because for this it is a longer deadline, and that is the colitis, therefore, under that law, but that is why they can, after three years, obtain citizenship from the Republic of Serbia. And then I guess it's logical, if they get that document, the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, that's exactly what they need, and it's a record from the M.P. unit that they're staying at that and that address, in that and that city, that they're being issued a passport, and not you're asking him for a ID card he doesn't have right now. How can he have a ID if he, for example, is from Montenegro, from Republika Srpska, there's this document, so he's a foreign citizen, an expired document from his country of origin, but he's done everything here under the Law on Citizenship, accepted the Republic of Serbia as his country of origin, has an orderly application of residence in that and that address in the Republic of Serbia, has passed the period. Or, let's say, someone whose parent is from this space and you can't get a passport because you put this on, this member of the law. Mr. Minister, you can tighten that up in some other way, do that networked personality record for every man who's registered in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and that physically he doesn't have a ID card at that point, so you're going to look at it, as the colleague said, lost it at that moment. So you have to understand that there are other circumstances and other situations. Besides, it's enough that I've told you about these two laws -- about foreigners and about the law on citizenship, to see that there are really prescribed documents that are quite enough for you to have a record of that person and of the document to issue a valid passport.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63800	Thank you. According to the amendment, the word has been made by MP Aleksandar Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63801	Thank you, Chairman. Honorable ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today is the 318th day that MPs of the opposition do not come to their jobs for which they receive their salary neatly. Among them is Bosko Obradović, who came to the National Assembly today, but only here to the hall, did not come to his work for which he received his salary, but held a press conference in the lobby, if it can be called so, to bring forth a bunch of nonsense and noise, tossing some papers, waved and arms and legs there according to his good custom. Bosko Obradovic says they should not agree, I guess, to the opposition, to spin the government. And that's what the man who is Gilas' errand boy says. So, the chief assaulter of Dragan Gilas, a man who designed spin, who introduced spin into Serbian journalism, who is the master master of spinning. We didn't know the word spin before Gilas appeared in our media. We didn't know about that phenomenon. He introduced it, the moment he controlled all the media in Serbia. And now, and today, we have the notion of spin and spinning on a daily level, at least in those media that are under his control -- N1, Nova and everyone else, there's a lot of printed media. This is being looked at in an attempt to construct in every way an attempt at an affair that is being targeted by the interior minister. It doesn't matter what all the competent institutions have responded at the moment, it doesn't matter what all the relevant institutions have denied everything that came from their side, nothing that matters, there's nothing that's helped either the arguments, or the facts, nothing, absolutely, it's only important that in every possible way they repeat themselves, they're running that -- a hundred times the repeated lie becomes true, and then they continue through their media daily to spin, just as their boss Dragan Gilas designed it. What is particularly symptomatic to me is the timing, timing of the construction of this affair, and he followed the announcement by the interior minister that he would follow the investigation, which followed, the investigation against Gilas's Darekt Media and other related companies, due to the mugging about buying seconds on RTS, and where RTS was directly damaged for huge sums. And since we have an announcement from the affair that the competent authorities will deal with this embezzlement, we have on the other hand the launch of countless affairs directed against the interior minister. What I would like to say for the end, which is - Ministers, the better the results of the government are, the more we build highways, roads, bridges, schools, hospitals, the more we open jobs, the more we bring investments, factories and everything else, the stronger and stronger attacks will be on you and on all the other members of the Serbian Government and, of course, on Alexander Vukic, who is their daily target. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63802	Thank you, colleague Markovic. According to the amendment, the word has been issued by the MP, Serbia's Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63803	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must rely on the presentation of my esteemed colleague Aleksandr Markovic and all these untruths, affairs and lies dealing with "a story" such as Bosko Obradovic. For what? Because of the interests of citizens who need to hear this in direct transmission, because of those people who receive not a small salary in the Serbian Parliament, and do not do their job, but because their officials and they think that their job is to sit on Twitter and Facebook and so one of his officials said the other day that they should make a list of influential SNS persons and after changing the government of migrants settle in their homes, apartments, give them their daughters and women to rape. This is a picture of what one of Boška Obradovic's "Dveri" officials wrote on social networks. It is a message that Dveri, Dragan Djilas, Bosko Obradovic and other maniacs gathered in the "The Alliance for Serbia, "For Raping Serbia", excuse me, send the citizens of Serbia and that is the backbone, the core, the foundation of the programme of Dragan Gilas and his friends. That's what she heads Serbia, don't give God, if such characters would ever move into any chair in this country. Of course, they will continue to invent everything and their main target will be Aleksandar Vukic and Nebojsa Stefanovic. Why Nebojsa Stefanovic, as minister of police? Why do people, individuals, so scared of the MUP, and why whenever they mention that there's a reasonable suspicion that a robbery was committed somewhere, that they've been kidnapped immediately with the threats of rape, immediately start making up some arms trafficking affairs, immediately start gnawing, barking, biting from all sides, writing all kinds of vomit that they're going to rape, I don't know who they all are. For what? Why so many panics in the ranks of those people who are suspected of stealing some money? Why is someone so scared of the police? Here, any of us to mention the police, there's no problem. Let's go make a statement, give a statement, we can do a polygraph, we can talk to law enforcement, we don't have any fear. Our hands are clean, our conscience is clear. Those people whose conscience is not pure, who are not calm, whose hands are deep in the honey, these people are afraid of the police and these people today are dealing with the fabrication of lies and affairs against the Minister of Police Nebojsa Stefanovic. Therefore, full support to both Serbian police and police minister Nebojsa Stefanovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63804	Thank you, colleague Filipovic. The word has been given by the MP, Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic, after the amendment. Here you go, Professor.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63805	Dear Vice President of the National Assembly, of course I will be against this amendment. Let me say, when MP Aleksandar Markovic spoke about spinning, to refer to the word, to show the citizens of Serbia that those who are now part of the opposition, and these were those from the Alliance for Serbia in 1999, when our country was bombed, spinning against our country, and they are doing the same today in the image of Dragan Djilas, Marinika Tepic and Boška Obradovic, who today presents brutal lies at a press conference. Dear People's MPs, what I'm about to say is 100% proven truth. During the bombing of our country, SRJ, or Serbia, journalist Miroslav Filipovic, I will compare it with Dragan Djilas and Marinika Tepic and their spin today, so Miroslav Filipovic, correspondent "Today", is the one "Today" who is still a newspaper, who was then working against the state and is doing it today against the state, for objectivity received this journalist award as the best internet journalist. For what, respected citizens of Serbia? That is why, for God's sake, it has exposed the criminal activity of Serbian forces in Kosovo. Now, I'm going to say a few sentences to you to see what this Miroslav Filipovic was doing, muddled our country and our army, and that's what they're doing today. First, Filipovic said in "Today" and "The New York Times" -- the Serbs cut off their children's heads in front of the Albanian parents. Listen to further lies – underage children's headsless bodies sold to their parents for 5,000 marks. (Vojislav Seselj: Who said that? Miroslav Filipovic, you heard. Listen further – so Serbs killed at least 800 Albanian children under the age of five. Listen further, Serbian citizens and honourable MPs -- the Serb forces in Kosovo did not encounter KLA terrorists. Serbian tanks worth $2.5m each, said Miroslav Filipovic, served exclusively to kill children and civilians. In the last 10 years, the Serb army, the SRJ, has killed a large number, according to children in Croatia and BiH. The journalist won an annual award for the best internet journalist. That's what some journalists, respected interior ministers do today, I believe you know very well, and the leaders of political parties, their deputies, political parties. Here's an example. Marinika Tepic, by order of Dragan Djilas, invented the affair, faked the contribution of Russian television "Russia Today" in an attempt to charge you, ministers, so Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic and his father with co-operation with jihadists. Please, this is what I'm trying to say today, and I really want to bring out the truth and the denial. Their goal was, by spreading this brutal assembly, to convince the public that Serbia is arming members of the ISIS terrorist organisation in Yemen. They did the same thing in 1999. On the orders of foreign intelligence and power centers, they're doing it today. That's why they don't care about the election. That's why they only care about the street. The footage titled "The Father and Son Arming jihadists", which was reportedly broadcast at the mentioned Russian TV station, was supposed to mislead viewers that Serbian Minister and Police, Serbian Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic and his father, linked to arms smuggling, because their photographs, are well-advised, literally mounted on the original contribution, as well as a fake title in Serbian, which supports this disgusting fiction. Not only that, honourable MPs, their installation is the conclusion that Russian state television has accused Serbia of arming terrorists and telling Serbian authorities that it will not survive for long, at a time when the Russian Federation Prime Minister visits our country and when we strengthen brotherly relations with brotherly Russia. When the material that "Russia Today" really broadcast was published, it was seen that there were no words about Nebojsa Stefanovic or the Republic of Serbia. Yeah! Now, respected citizens, you can see how those from the Alliance for Serbia, led by Bosko Obradovic, Dragan Djilas, and especially the earpiece, the flying dove, Marinika Tepic, have been countering false news and do so daily, with the goal of humiliating not only our state officials, but also some state bodies. Respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Russian Federation have also denied Marinika Tepic and Bosko Obradovic and Dragan Djilas, you have heard this these days. Instead of apologizing to Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic and the state of Serbia, in the first place, she continues to push through false words and lies, which means that Marinika Tepic, called "the dove of flyers", why, since she lies in one party at night, in the morning, in the other, suffers from a lack of basic education, and not only that, but also the basic democratic culture, because after the denial of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Russian Federation, she, behold, continued with fiction and daily lies. It's very dangerous. I assure you, Mr. Minister, and the honourable MPs, for the national and state interests of the Republic of Serbia, I call on the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Serbia to address the statements made by these political actors. They have the same goal as in 1999. The same leaves that were then in the service of the enemy are now in the service of the enemy. Here's the evidence. Free of charge. And they don't care about the election. They're interested in the street. That is what Dragan Gilas, called the "jiki Mafia", said when he came from a overseas country to Serbia and announced that they are not interested in choice but in the street and that there will be even blood on the street. I was talking about it in this assembly, the date he said it. And they do all that, they make up lies every day. No matter what success there is in the current set, there will be more lies by the same ones. Mr. Interior Minister, you have full support, I assure you, not only the SNS and the MPs, but the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because the citizens of the Republic of Serbia recognized them and this time they will not succeed at a minimum of one. They have sent them, they will send them and now they will send them into the political past, and never, ever, is a message to the citizens, believe me, they will not return to the political arena of the Republic of Serbia. Full support, Mr. Minister, once again, you have, not only MPs, but also citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because this one, to apologize, was recognized as working against the interests of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63806	Thank you, Professor Atlagic. As far as I can tell, the replica is wanted by the MP general, Dr. Vojislav Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63807	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I received a letter from Banja Luka a few days ago, which was signed by more than 50 members of the Tepic family, a very honorable and honest Serbian family, with a patriotic tradition, and I know it reliably, because Alexa Tepic was my colleague at Law School, at the time. They asked me to ask the National Assembly to prevent further false representation of Marina Tepic in both the National Assembly and the Serbian public. In time, in a shorter period, she was indeed named Tepic, when she was married to a certain Tepic, but later she changed several marriages. Whether she was still taking other people's names or not, I don't know, but it's most appropriate, since we're in doubt what her last name is right now, to refer to her maiden name, let's say – Marinika Chobanu. Marine Coban is also making a mistake in the National Assembly, under an honorable Serbian name. I'm not going to say there aren't many people named Chopana, and they're truly honorable and honest. There are, but here I want to protect the Tepic family and on their behalf. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63808	Thank you, Professor Seselj. According to the amendment, MP Igor Becic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63809	Dear People's MPs, while we are talking about these legal proposals here, this Gilas bastard Bosko Obradovic holds a conference and held a press conference in the hall of this high House. There is no courage to enter the hall to face the arguments of the MPs, but it can come for a few minutes to make a lot of accusations that are not supported by anything, attack all the closest associates of the President of the Republic, Mr. Vukic, leave this House and wait for the answer, not wait for what we can tell him and what we can talk about. I have warned here many times, as chairman of the Security Control Committee, with information that I have in which way the opposition wants to come to power in the Republic of Serbia. After those failed protests, after all they did in those protests, the moment all those criminals from the former regime appeared, they are today speaking on television about their participation in politics, so we listened a few days ago to Mr. Pajtic who spoke and who attacked the most civil servants, who attacked the most loyal and important participants of the President of the Republic, and when we know what he had done in the past 12 years and as president of the DS, and also as prime minister of the province. All that crime, all that was stolen from Serbian citizens, he today has, in response to all that, the only answer, attacks on Mr Stefanovic, President Vukic, Vukevic, Siniša Malo and others who, in carrying out reforms initiated by the president of the Republic, are for Serbian citizens, for a better life in Serbia. We now see a new plan and a new attempt, which are false alarmers, so we see on TV how they give space to people who need to answer for what they did against the state of Serbia, what they have tried to bring important data to the public, and these days we have seen how much pressure it is on the Republic of Serbia, when it comes to both military and industrial espionage and attempts to bring certain resources of our military industry to the public, to bring out outside of this country, and to criminal ways to try to place them, we see that these people who should be responsible for it are now in their defence attacks on the MUP and on people around Mr Stefanovic. We also see this plan – to attack all co-workers of President Vukic and eventually reach him, because they want to win power on the street in this way, aware that they cannot get the support of citizens, aware that they have support in this direction, that people, like Obradovic and other Gilas bastards, are trying to attack such attacks, without any arguments, both Mr Stefanovic and the MUP and the family of President Vukic, these most serious cities, such as Novi Sad, and Mayor Vukevic, Siniš Mali, Mayor of Belgrade. So, all these affairs that are trying to place these days in public are headed towards the attack on the most loyal and closest associates of President Vukic. That's quite clear. They want to postpone the election. They want to show in this way that the only possibility of their survival on the political scene is what they tried to do a few days ago, and when President Vukic came on TV. So, to wait with 30 wrongdoers, 300 wrongdoers, attack the president and try to cause unrest and chaos in Serbia. The SNS has clearly shown that it will not go that way, they will not be able to come to power in Serbia. I can only support the citizens, and the support of the citizens is towards the SNS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63810	Thank you, colleague Becic. The word has been given by the MP, Serbia's Filipovic, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63811	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, I just want to draw the public's attention to concrete things, how what's left of Dragan Gilas in Belgrade, his errand boy Marko Kesa, and what it looks like in Old Town, how they're doing their duties, their jobs, and everything, apparently, in the interest of the citizens. They sing and whine that they don't have money or that their budget is reduced, they can't hire the geronto housewives, they can't help older people in Old Town, so they get sick alive about it. In fact, why did they get sick alive? They used to spend hundreds of millions of dinars of citizens of Belgrade, citizens of the Old Town and Serbia as they please, so they spent 3,928,511.000 dinars in the Old Town, and evidence that the service was done to the citizens, of course, does not exist. That's right for all the services the Old Town municipality has been doing. There's a favor they're doing, and there's no evidence of it. What would the evidence be? The evidence would be in the light of written confirmations of the person, the user of the service, that these services were provided to them. Since I live in the Old Town municipality, in Old Town, the average population is 45, 46 years old. So, mostly older people are on the territory of our community. I don't know, believe me, no older person in Old Town that the Old Town municipality, or Marko Bastac, anything, along with their thieves and criminals from the community, did for the citizens of Old Town. Also, I will remind the public and citizens of one tweet from one of their friends, the unfortunate Veselinovic, where he said Marko Bastic is the only president of Serbia's municipality he can claim has no door to his office. He doesn't need a door. Indeed, he doesn't need a door. He needs bags, sacks. They don't need doors, they don't need pens, they don't need papers at all, they don't need anything. They work on cash, wallet, envelopes. These are the resources for the work that Mark Bastac needs. Mark Bastache has been very annoying lately. You can find one photograph, very beautiful on Google, who uses the computer, types in Marko Bastac bags, exits one picture, where it looks so very frustrated because plastic bags have been banned from being used in the city of Belgrade since January 1st. Now I'd like to ask the city administration to have this contingent, how many other places there are, plastic bags, secure him, so that a man doesn't end up at the end of the asylum, since we still don't know if he's gonna end up in prison first or in psychiatric treatment, to provide a man with enough bags, to play until the election, how much longer he's got left. So, the citizens of Old Town feel free to come to police stations, tell you what Marko Bastac did to you, tell you how he was recalibrating the catering facilities, the hosts of Old Town, how gardens were being set up in Old Town, how the garden was expanding by another meter or two to add another table, tell him how many thousands of euros were to be given to inspectors from local self-government, tell them how much it took to give thousands of euros to Mark Bastac, or Lesljak to bring it to his office, so there were few tens of thousands of euros and an apartment of 115 squares that he had acquired in a few years, and he got angry over one envelope of people. Imagine what he would have done to someone if he had been, God forbid, in the place of Dragan Gilas and it was billions of euros. Well, he probably would have butchered that man, but he's small, so hopefully, he is a colleague to Markovic, he's a little boy, hoping that little Bastic -- a pistachio, will grow. They will not have the opportunity to grow politically, because the citizens of Old Town in the next local elections will shut down the whole story and finally, hopefully, some more normal, decent people in this municipality who will seduce order and know the Old Town when the services are paid to whom, why and how they are paid, and those who have paid this kind of services in terms of three million and 928 thousand dinars for the gerento housewives, and then say that they cannot make it possible for citizens because they have reduced budgets, and there should be a reduction in budget. They shouldn't even have a budget. They got so short, they don't need any more money. They need years of imprisonment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63812	According to the amendment, the People's MP Stefana Miladanovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63813	Thank you, Your Honor. I have reported, of course, by amendment, but I would take the opportunity to rely on what my distinguished colleagues have spoken of in the past few minutes, and it is incompletely clear that we are testifying, I would say, for several months, to fabricate different affairs, unfortunately and to involve members of the most important family of individual ministers, as well as you, dear ministers, and I would take advantage of the opportunity to tell you, and as a parliamentary group, the SPS, you will certainly have our support. The truth is on your side and I can freely say that the citizens of Serbia, and I can be sure that the citizens of Serbia know that they recognize what the Government of the Republic of Serbia and their representatives here in the assembly are doing in the past few years when it comes to the well-being and improvement of our society as a whole and that they will certainly know that they are assessing our work. As for the amendment itself, respecting, of course, my colleague Verica Radet, but also my colleague Nikola Savić, who has submitted an amendment to the same member of this law, I do not think that these amendments should be accepted and I think that it is a positive matter in this law, and we have discussed this in principle debate, that unless the party itself wants to obtain all the necessary documents for the issue of personal documents, everything else can be done by the servants of the Ministry of the Interior, or the Administration of Administrative Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63814	Thank you, colleague Miladinov. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? The word is from the MP Nikola Savic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63815	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 7. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on travel documents, and I believe that the Government should have adopted this amendment, especially since the amendment is in the spirit of the policy of this Government which advocates the digitisation of the work of all state authorities. The travel documents are, however, something that is normal at first sight, which is available, which every citizen has the right to do. But one thing falls into my eyes, which doesn't necessarily mean that it's absolutely so, that this law is passed right at the time of the so-called introduction. Little Shengen. We know what it is – a journey between the citizens of the Republic of Macedonia, the Republic of Albania and our citizens and if we look a little more at it, it can be concluded that only the citizens of Albanian nationality benefit from it, because I highly doubt that one of Serbia's citizens will travel on the basis of these or any other documents in Albania, except for those few who go to sea. If something was going to happen in this regard, of course, I have nothing against it being a free flow of goods, services, travellers and everything else, I think that the state of Serbia should have taken more care that these things, liberalisation in this sense, are implemented between the state of Serbia and the Republic of BiH, because we all know that there are a huge number of our citizens there, and on the other hand there are a large number of citizens of Bosniak nationality living in the Republic of Serbia, in the territory of the Raška area, and I think something more should be done in this respect, and not this so-called. Little Shengen, who was here to talk about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63816	I thank my colleague Saviæ. According to the amendment, the People's MP Olivera Pesic has the word. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63817	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Article 7 paragraph 2 defines that the travel document is issued on the basis of assurance of the nationality of the Republic of Serbia, a copy of the birth certificate, as well as other public documents proving the data at the request, which the authority will obtain under official duty, except in cases where the party wants to obtain the necessary documents on its own. It is this final part of the sentence that is disputed in the opinion of a colleague who has submitted the amendment because he asks for part of the sentence with his amendment – except in cases where the party itself wants to obtain the necessary documents to be deleted. I don't think this amendment should be accepted. I think Serbian citizens, in this case, should not be denied the right to file their own documents, there is no reason for such a thing. If they already have stored documents in such a way can speed up the process of issuing documents, since, under official duty, the deadline for obtaining documents is about 15 days. So I repeat once again, I do not think that Serbian citizens should be denied one of these rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63818	Thank you, colleague Pesic. According to the amendment, the People's MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic has the word. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63819	I thank the chairman. I'll try to be brief. In the principle debate, we talked about the amendments and additions to this Bill proposal in terms of improving the work of competent state authorities in relation to greater efficiency, but also how the adoption of this proposal will relieve citizens of long procedures, but also the cost of issuing or replacing travel documents or their advertising to invalidity. As far as this amendment is concerned, my colleague Olivera Pesic had already said before, so I would not repeat myself. In a professional sense, I absolutely agree with her that this amendment should be rejected because the task of the MUP is to ensure the safety of our fellow citizens and somewhere and in the sense of this amendment, or this particular bill, we can only do so if we refuse this amendment. I want to thank all the MPs who participate in this debate, of course Minister Stefanovic, who is here with us all day to work on how to improve this text of the law. I hope those MPs who came to the Alliance for Serbia see this too and decided that by entering the Alliance for Serbia, they should come out of the National Assembly and be honored not to make their contribution to making the citizens' laws better. On the other hand, this Bosko Obradovic, who my colleagues spoke about a few minutes ago, did not come to the hall today to ask or say anything, I am quite sure that Minister Stefanovic would have anything to say to him as well as we had something to answer to lawyer Gajic who accused Minister Stefanovic of arresting whom he will, as he wills, and we also pointed out that the Police Act is very clear and that he does not leave the dilemma on jurisdiction. To be honest, I also want to get involved in my colleagues' discussions, and I can't wait for the election. I know that Minister Stefanovic is willing to do that, too, to check the citizens' electoral will because we can, and those who are not ready will not go to the polls because they know they will not get support, and I expect that after everything and after the elections, we continue to lead Serbia forward and continue with reforms. As for the little Schengen my colleague was talking about, that's something that hasn't happened in 30 years in our country. Of course we see it as another possibility for a better life for our citizens. Once all the specific inspections at the crossings are in place, when the trucks move faster, there will be savings that are significant for our country at all times. The World Bank predicted that only one measure would save 120m euros from the application of the single measure. It also opens up the possibility that Serbia and Northern Macedonia have the same investors, that there is an exchange of engineers and workers, and I believe that this will make our country even more competitive on the market, an even better climate for attracting foreign direct investment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63820	Thank you, colleague Žarić Kovacevic. The amendment, however, has an amendment from the People's Parliament, Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63821	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will comment on little Shengen. It is precisely the essential importance of this kind of integration and alliance to which all the serious countries in the world belong, and I think that most of the MPs here would have no objection to Serbia being part or in any way join, let's say the "High Town Group" countries with which we work well, with which we have no open issues and we have excellent economic and political co-operation. What President Vukic did in the past few years, which is strategically important, is let's say that his initiative was to form a so-called Orthodox-Qudriteral alliance with Bulgaria, Greece and Romania and ideas, primarily the idea of a customs union, and now the idea of small Schengen is exactly the most possible national interest of the Republic of Serbia and the achievement of our economic goals and economic progress of our country. Why is little Schengen and its functioning important to our country and why is it an administrative part of our country's future in little Schengen? It is precisely because the export of the Republic of Serbia, the export of companies operating in the Republic of Serbia, is the largest in neighbouring countries. The largest in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Republika Srpska, Northern Macedonia and other neighbouring countries and I believe me, I have no objection and we follow this policy to move from about a few dozenm euros to several hundredm euros in potential exports to Albania. I think that only the citizens of the Republic of Serbia would benefit from it, we would benefit from our company, which is precisely the idea and focus of the Government of Serbia, President Vukic and most of our parliament, economic growth, economic development and what we can do here and we are part of that project in parliament to boast, it's news from a few days ago that unemployment in our country fell below 10%. So, with such projections, with this aggressive economic policy and attracting investment, Serbia has a chance that in the next term, or in the next few years, with growth that will be higher than 5% and reducing unemployment and attracting foreign direct investment from all over the world, we are not immune to capital and to companies from any country, everyone from the Russian Federation and our friends from China and the United States, South Korea, they are all welcome here to invest their capital, to come when it comes to tourism, to explore our country and everything that will make our country's GDP better and bigger and everything that will make Serbian citizens live better and better. So, the idea of little Schengen is not something that currently occurred to either the president of Serbia or anyone else, but rather one very, very analytically designed projection that is in favour of Serbia's development and a better future of the Republic of Serbia. And what you're going to do as evidence that Serbia is one modern European country, that all this time, that President Vukic is all this time pushing for the free flow of goods, people and capital, for all the values of that Western world that is advanced, which is progressive, that develops its science, new technologies, in fact, that builds on the entire development of this world. I want Serbia to become a part of this modern world. That's why we want to step up with the big partners, why not? We are a small country, but we're developing. We develop an economy, we develop an army and our defence forces, we develop new technologies. Only the IT sector has been in the past, I will remind my esteemed colleagues, seven, eight years ago the IT sector has made zero euros in earnings, now it's more than a billion euros. We're working with our friends from NR China on projects to develop artificial intelligence. Why? Serbia may not have the natural resources of great, we may not have oil, we have no gas, we have no sea, we have no God-given and what he may have given to some other countries, so they don't have to work like us, but we have people. We have very good and high-quality young people who can create a better future for both them and our descendants can create a better future for the Republic of Serbia. Also, I cannot say one strategic important thing, that both the president and we, like the majority in Parliament and government, will insist that in the territory, or in the Western Balkans region, we will have dialogue, that we want long-term good solutions, that we respect the interests of other countries and other peoples, but we will also never give up our national interests and we will never give up on that policy called Serbian politics. We will not follow, nor will we lead the politics of any other country, nor will we as a sovereign and serious state allow anyone to dictate our moves and steps in the future. Finally, this government and this government are focused deeply on achieving our national interests and what is finally called a better life for Serbia's citizens and a better life and a better quality of life in our country. Of course we will make sure that we build roads, build soft infrastructure, build our universities, scientific institutes, all those institutions that we need to make this development better, make development bigger and that we can influence our country's demographic characteristics. I think that in some respect, this is the key to the problem and something that we should all do a little bit more here, which is how we can be more here in Serbia, and it's going to be more of us by realising this policy of economic growth, which we're going to realize the policy of making there's a lot more investment, jobs and a lot more of opportunities to develop a liberal and market economy in our country. In the end, let me just comment on what I think is done last night, by visiting Minister Stefanovic on an electronic media. I think he's all in one reasoned, polite way, how he's been doing it all along this political scene, giving an example of reason and will for dialogue and good behavior. What is most important is that not only for us MPs here in parliament, but also for the whole public of the Republic of Serbia, what is true and what is hidden behind constant and free I can say to the monstrous attacks on him and his family. I think there is a point for me, at least, when it comes to this, but also for Serbia's SDP parliamentary group, of course, which gives full support to Nebojsa Stefanovic on his way to developing the security system of the Republic of Serbia, the equipment and better sculpture of police forces in our country. But I can't get away with the impression, but also my deep belief that this whole hack and this whole monstrosity attack was cut out somewhere outside, carved by some people and institutions and services, who, of course, don't want strong Serbia, don't want Serbia to develop in any way, and then, of course, by nature, one of the most important goals and who to hit on that road, was Nebojsa Stefanovic. I am sure that both our security services and all those state authorities that deal with it and how they will work to warn such attacks in the coming period. Of course, we can't stop them 100%, but we should tell our public and our citizens that it exists, that this is happening, but that we all stand here together in parliament behind those who are the best of us, who may be doing business and putting their heads where maybe some of us wouldn't put their hands on it, some of us wouldn't even put their feet on, and they put their heads on, and the struggle for national interest sometimes, and in this case it involves putting and their heads out of our full capacity, we can now see our families in order to protect these national interests and protect our own people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63822	Thank you, colleague Marinkovic. According to the amendment, Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić has the word. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63823	Thank you, Chairman. Of course, it agrees with the government's opinion and that the amendment should be rejected, above all for the reason that Article 7 of Article 2 gives choice to foreigners. The party when obtaining a personal ID, i.e. the passport is no passive observer, but an active observer. Of course, an already active participant in this process, of course, is that, in accordance with the General Administrative Procedure Act and in accordance with a faster and more efficient administration, it is possible, above all, to obtain documents under official duty, but only in cases where the party wishes it can obtain documents itself. So the alternative, or choice option, is in the interest of citizens, and SNS is a better quality of life and a faster and more efficient administration, interest and number one priority. However, I have to look at some of the moral freaks depicted in the image of Dragan Djilas, depicted in the image of Bastic, depicted in the image of Jeremic, depicted in the image of Obradovic, who do not choose the means, lies, deceptions, to make up lies. Why are they doing this? Because their only policy, their own business policy, is a policy full of pockets. Dragan Gilas made 620m euros rich during the exercise of public authority, leaving Belgrade's budget empty for a billion and 200m. The yellow tycoon government has robbed Serbian citizens of over 100 billion euros. Of course, they were neither children nor children, they were rich in looting children and through the construction of the castle "Hetherland", but Dragan Gilas was rich in looting children and through the construction of the house "Big Brother", because the contract said that a living room for children was to be built on the plot. So they don't choose the means to be personally rich, and the cities and municipalities they ruled in, at the time they were called the valleys of famine, because they left about 600,000 workers on the street, they drove them out of the factory. Mr. Minister Stefanovic, the attack on you from these moral freaks, human creations and those who promote violence, hanging, from those who promote and who were, by exercising their authority, the robbers of citizens, certainly don't need much to worry about you, because what is the target, it's the target of your success, of the successes you've done during your term as part of the MUP, and also within the government. I would also like to point out that their attack on Alexander Vukic and his family, as well as yours, is once again an attack on the statesman and visionary of the best in postwar history, which is true patriotism, because he is interested in citizens, not personal interest, in the first place. Those moral freaks, those who are advocates of abnormality, will never be able to understand, but I hope that citizens will send them to the election site of history because they are the den and the den deserves it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63824	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63825	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, we didn't have a chance to share an opinion two days ago when you were here for the debate, Mr. Marinkovic didn't have that much tolerance and democratic potential, he had to take a break. Today we heard something that was a sequel to those things we talked about, that we heard on Tuesday. So what was explosive in our public, which was like thunder from the clear sky, is this new integration of us, this new Balkan union, something called "little Schengen". So today, I had to write it down, I couldn't believe what I heard from Mr. Marinkovic, he said it was essential integration. What happened to Serbia's fundamental integration into the EU? When did "little Schengen" become the Balkan Union's essential integration? So, after everything Serbia has done in 19 years, everything Serbia has been asked to do, has delivered everything to The Hague tribunal, has done everything that was necessary with Montenegro, Kosovo and everything else required, not only through the process of opening chapters, but through all other political pressures, we have now received a clear signal that Serbia will never be an EU member, that it will always be in the lobby, that it will be ahead. Instead of taking a sober look at it now, figuring out what's from the European perspective of Serbia's position, we're looking for comforting rewards, looking for replacements in integration through "little Schengen". So now we will unite and it will make up for the collapse of Serbia and the EU's negotiating process here. First of all, no one said, before it specifically happened in Novi Sad, that it was Serbia's plan at all. No one said that at the government either, only the President of the Republic who doesn't have a mandate for it. On the other hand, no one has even explained what is different from the existing CEFTA agreement. What exactly is Serbia getting? Serbia can go, i.e. Serbian citizens can also go to BiH, Montenegro, and Northern Macedonia with ID cards, only more will be able to go to Albania. Is that the need of Serbian citizens? The Serbian Radical Party doesn't think so. We will get it that Albania can go to central Serbia now that it can only go between Kosovo and Albania with ID cards. On the other hand, what does Schengen mean? Just because it's a passport doesn't mean there's no border crossings. What does that mean, what kind of absurdity is it? Essential integration is our biggest economic national interest, so we really can't accept it. Who can convince Serbian citizens that the Balkan Union and small Schengen are in Serbia's interest, especially as one reason to justify such a move, the president of Serbia says it will be able, for example, to secure the placement of Albanian agricultural products in central Serbia. That's what we're going to provide. We are in danger when at the next conference in Drac, the Republic of Kosovo, so-called, is presented as an independent state. So we will thus give a process to our participation and support the legitimacy of independent Kosovo. We will support what Edi Rama says, which he also said in Belgrade, is that Kosovo is an independent state and that Serbia should accept it and face it. This is one of the ways that it can happen. We want to secure something, probably because we are so strong, that we now also improve Albania's economy, the economy of BiH, Northern Macedonia and the Republic of Kosovo. We do everything we need to do, what they ask us to do, and we don't get anything. Serbia's policy towards the government in Pristina and attitudes are more than masochistic. We provide them with everything, now we try and where their products are going to be placed, and they do not accept the votes from central Serbia. Then who's crazy? We want to give legitimacy to independent Kosovo, this way we do it, and it's still being explained here that this is our biggest economic interest. Minister Rasim Ljajic says for today's "Politika": "Through this kind of regional co-operation we make our economies our competitors to perform on an increasingly demanding global market." I don't know how to comment on this at all. We are making our economies more competitive, and we should probably see that, first of all, our businessmen because of this whole European integration and the 20-year-old family are not competitive in the domestic country, they are not competitive in Serbia, because in addition to all these stories and what you, Mr. Minister, said on Tuesday, that Aleksandar Vucic has reborn our economy and everything else, nothing differents SNS' economic policy from DS policy. The subsidy regime is still in force. So 10 or 15 thousand euros gives the state of Serbia a job for investors coming from abroad. In this way they spend that money, given that 250 euros in salaries in these companies, they spend that money on salaries, while that money exists there, and for all that time, they extract extraprofits. It's the DS model that accepted the SNS and continued to implement it. That's the facts. Of course, it's a model that supports the IMF. And what country has evolved in this way? If it were good, of course, they tell us that it's good from the West, that it's good, I guess those Western countries would use it to develop their economies that way, they wouldn't bring it to Serbia, Bulgaria and the Balkans anywhere, but it's not. All we can provide for them and what we do very successfully is cheap labour, and then we're still so schizophrenic that we boast of it as a great success. And now we're going to be competitive on an increasingly demanding global market. The separatist power in Pristina has seduced the goods taxi regime from central Serbia and BiH a year ago. What did the state of Serbia do about it, besides these sad press conferences by our executive authority? Nothing. And after all that, we now want the Balkan Union, as if that tax thing had never happened. This European Union, if it were our partner and our friend, they would affect the so-called Kosovo's republic to remove the taxi regime. They have mechanisms for that. We need to unite with them, and they support the taxi regime. We have come into a situation with these subsidies that our economy can no longer be competitive anywhere, and we cannot see that the only alternative to the European integration of Serbia is the stronger integration with the Russian Federation, with the BRIKS countries, through the economic union of the Eurasian Union led by the Russian Federation, where we can open up a market for our products. We boast that we export and import the most from Europe, and then we are the biggest partners with the Balkan countries in the neighbourhood, etc. It's not because we don't have other options, but because we have to do it, because it's political pressures from the European Union, it's only one reason. It's just one reason why we're headed for these countries. We will, but we can't. And why can't we? We must not because this is not in line with the European Union's foreign policy. Minister Rasim Ljajic, when he announced that we could increase our agricultural production in 2014, at the time of the first sanctions of the European Union to Russia, came from the European Union, saying that everything Serbia would do, which would speed up the export of Serbian agricultural products to the Russian Federation, the European Union would be considered an enemy act and that is why it did not happen. Is it time after 19 years of lost time and these tragic stories about the Balkan Union and little Schengen that we really understand that there is nothing from the European Union and the European perspective, especially those mantras, that throughout the Balkan Union the entire region will sooner enter the European Union. It's really unserious stuff. As far as co-operation with the Russian Federation is concerned, you also, Mr. Minister, spoke on Tuesday, I'd like to ask you -- do you know how much the S-400 rocket system costs? I mean, of course, if it couldn't be bought at the store, but how much could Serbia pay for one missile system S-400, since they're cooperating, countries are agreed on the basis of an agreement, right, about buying these rocket systems? Maybe it's a billion euros. Serbia loses more than 530m euros each year because it implements a unilateral Stabilisation and Association Agreement. In these 11 years, we could buy six of these systems, only from customs revenues that were not available in 2008 and the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. This is what results from European integration. Why would that be hiding? That's a fact. That's not what I'm saying. That's what the Republic Statistics Bureau says. Maybe they're lying. We, if we want to develop our economy, to ensure in the future our economic, energy, military and any other security, we need to make decisions in accordance with our own interests and to cooperate with our traditional historical partners that we won't have to be in this kind of subordinate relationship, so that we accept these little Schengens and all that talk about how ideal it is, how amazing it is, how best for us. Well, it's not. Let's open the market for BRIKS countries, for the Eurasian Economic Union, let's see, maybe it's a little better than little Schengen, maybe it's better than co-operation with Albania. So, these are delusions, these are mantras, this is this great dogma, the political principle that is run by the SNS that reads – Europe has no alternative. It's really the most urgent thing to change, so that in the future at all we can talk about any successes, both economic and all.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63826	The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63827	You've had a chance to see that the government recently signed our accession to the independent-state community market, that's what this government did. We are the ones who have shown that we have very effective mechanisms for co-operation with the East and the West. The truth is, when you look at the structure of the factories that come into our country, which they want to invest, and they're welcome wherever they want to come from, we've evened out all domestic and foreign investors. The subsidy will be given to domestic investors. Let people come, let them invest. Let our people from abroad invest. Let the foreigners invest. You're saying which country developed by investment? Which isn't? Did you know that she didn't develop and that she had investors coming to open factories? Here, give me one that hasn't evolved. Secondly, you cannot measure the strength of Serbia and Germany, so to speak, they come here. Of course it's cheaper labour in Serbia, but they pay better than we had before, our average salary earlier was 300 euros, today it's 500, thanks to companies that invest more. Are we subsidizing? We're subsidizing. On the fourteenth month, we get paid this subsidy, and since then, the state has been making money through taxes and contributions, but there's one more thing that can't be measured, which is the satisfaction of people who, unlike when they were unemployed, feel useful, go somewhere, get up and go to work in the morning, earn that day, carry their family. That's much better. I don't mind the company coming from wherever it wants, and we'll give everyone the same conditions from both east and west, just let them come. All right, everybody, come on. The Chinese companies are coming and we're hiring people there. Big systems like "Meite" in Obrenovac. Here, now 500 new jobs have been called. It's simple, and Zijdin and Linglong and everyone else. So, huge companies. We want to bring all those who are good for our country. I'm telling you this in a sense, we can't develop without investors, absolutely we can't. Unfortunately, the policy that was conducted in our country in one period led to the fact that other than Miskovic and a few tycoons, we do not have people who can invest more serious money in the economy. It's simple, the economy of Serbia, the broken-down company, the companies destroyed, you know that. Now, it will take some time to raise that economy, to make that middle class work more seriously, so that these people can be more significant investors in our country. Everything we can place our goods on every market, we with all the countries in our environment, except with Hungary, and with Slovenia even, we have a surplus in business. Our interest, it's economic logic, it's a stronger country, a stronger economic and economic power, the one that actually produces more, it will always be more dominant in co-operation with countries that have less capacity. More of our goods will go to those markets. For us, connecting, removing barriers and speeding up this type of transaction corresponds to more than smaller countries or less developed countries and literally with all has surpluses. The surplus means we can still invest that money in schools, hospitals, roads, higher wages, pensions, etc. It's economic logic. Everything else, therefore, all those who want and are willing to invest in Serbia to come to our country, wherever they come from, believe us, we wait for the triggers. Because people often say – we should only cooperate with these or only with those, that with everyone, we are ready, just let them come, let them open factories, we will give them the same subsidies whoever they are, just as they are to our citizens. At this point between 85% and 90% of our trade, our total trade is with countries in our environment and with EU countries. It's true, it's a fact, and it chooses a private business, it doesn't choose a state. The private says yes, I want in this country because they pay me best, there's my best price, there's my best standard. Let people export wherever they want and do it, but then show you where we have to actually focus, because it's actually economic logic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63828	Thank you. Right to the replica of the People's MP Vladimir Marinkovic, then Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63829	Thank you, dear colleague Arsic. Dear Ministers, honourable fellow MPs, I must deny my colleague Seselj when it comes to his speech and the position on little Schengen that definitely does not exclude an agreement with the Euro-Asian Union that Serbia signed a few weeks ago. I agree completely with the minister that we should not be immune here to any capital that is regulated, which is not speculative that it comes to Serbia from any country in the world, I guess that's the first lesson in the economy that capital has no face, no ethnicity, no religion or any other and of course there's no free lunch. If somewhere in the world it works that one country and should be targeted and its companies only on export and economic co-operation with another country, whatever it is called and whatever relations it is with that country, I don't think it exists anywhere, it's not sustainable and it's not good after all. Why? And you must know very well, you've been there several times, you know Chinese politics, and the model of economic development, why the People's Republic of China is building infrastructure, bridges, ports, railways in Europe? Ten thousand miles away? Well, to make it easier for you to sell your goods. What is the economic objective of every country? To help their companies, to create an ambience to make these companies easier to export and easier to collect their products and services. If there are infrastructures, if there are roads, if this transport and logistics, Mr. Seselj who are now participating, sometimes by a dozen percent in the price of the final product, if they make it easier, to make it more passing and better, it's much better for these companies and it's exactly going to be more competitive in that way. That's why we here support taking more goods to Albania, why not? The more goods we sell to them, any of them, whether the domestic companies that invested here are completely irrelevant. Why should we discuss whether to sell more goods or services to someone? That's why I'm in favour of building a highway, for example, Belgrade -- Sarajevo. Because our exports and our relations with the same Sarajevo team will be ten times better, because today we have a situation for the train from Belgrade to Sarajevo for eight hours, and when we build a highway, it will be arriving by car and trucks in two, two and a half hours. A signal for those who want to invest also for our domestic producers and businesses that they can invest even more and sell goods and services. After all, that road that includes Belgrade -- Pristina -- Tirana -- will ensure that more goods and services are exported to Albania, with which we have a very small trade exchange. A short time ago, the minister mentioned 90% of our trade economic exchange is taking place with neighbouring countries and with EU countries. German and German investors employ 60,000 people in Serbia, the US 20,000, the Russian couple of thousands. Let them employ 20 and 50, freely, welcome us, and have every possible condition to come here and invest in the best possible way but I think that this doctrine that you've talked about before, that we should be directed to one country and that political or in any way, it's bad and negative to export to any country no matter what political relations we have. After all, these political relations will be better and we strive to do so if economic relations are better. This is what is essential and what is the foundation of President Vukic's policy, which is precisely economic development and economic co-operation that paves the way for political co-operation and paves the way for what is called reconciliation and a common future and better co-operation. The economy conquers everything. The economy is what needs to be a vein of the housewives of our countries and better co-operation and better relations between our peoples. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63830	Thank you. Right on line, MP Alexander Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63831	First of all, countries that have not evolved despite foreign investment insistence are Bulgaria, Romania and Croatia, in our environment. These countries are poorer today than when they joined the EU. They have fewer inhabitants and more public debt, somewhere three times, as in Bulgaria and Romania. Romania loses more than two million inhabitants. Bulgaria today has less than seven million inhabitants. Croatia is less than four million. That's how our three neighbouring countries developed. As far as foreign investments are concerned, are they the same? Not all foreign investments are the same. They are not the same ones with which political pressure comes and those from which it does not come. They're not the same, unfortunately, investments coming from the United States and China. We had the situation discovered the affair and prevented such a thing from happening in Serbia when Esmark wanted to take over Jellyzar Smederevo. Esmark wanted to come here to rob these subsidies, and the companies that come from China come here, not only to Serbia, but anywhere else, come here to stay and don't care to make a profit in three days or a year, but in 20, 30 or more years. I'm always very supportive of that. But they're all the same. Some of us are being driven into Balkan Schengen, as you would say essential integration, some of us are not. I agree with everything you said about the Chinese investing in infrastructure. Of course, they're not just investing in Serbia, they're investing throughout Central Asia. But it's not in line with this or what Alexander Vukitch is saying, or what you said. First of all, Aleksandar Vucic says about the placement of Albanian agricultural products in Serbia. Who's going to imagine that we're going to be focusing on Albania now? They won't do it themselves. It can be our delusion here and through these shengans and cefts. We can only give this legitimacy to an independent Kosovo, as an evenly independent sovereign country, to sit with it at the same table and talk about integration afterwards. It's the only thing we can get from this whole mini-Balkan or Schengen for the poor, as the bastard called it. Nothing was planned, just announced one day as our simple consolation prize, for something that will never happen, it is Serbia's EU membership. Of course, all the investors are coming. Those who come somewhere from the west are simply Serbs more equal than others. We see it through the level of subsidies, we see it through incentives, we see it through free land that gets somewhere and more value than a million euros, we see through all the permits they get here by accelerated procedure, for free. There are only for individuals, privileged in Serbia. Not one country developed under the IMF's tutelage. Look at the countries of Latin America. Look at the countries of Eastern Europe. Today, they serve only for certain purposes of providing cheap labour. They can represent a parking lot tomorrow or a place where some migrants will settle, when these migrants who came from Asia to Europe, no longer need Western Europe, can serve as some experimental experimenting polygons. Let's see what would happen if we introduced this or that into these countries. That's all. And Eastern Europeans that have entered the EU and Balkan countries. Most importantly, they can only serve as NATO pact bases. It is also waiting for Serbia if it continues through these integrations, and that we are working out of our interest by uniting into Balkan Schengen, indeed it is not realistic, it is not true and it is not possible to present it as a substitute for anything we have had in co-operation with the EU.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63832	Right on line, MP Vladimir Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63833	Thank you. You know China well and opportunities in China and politics and their economic development. You are right that they base their economic and political development strategy on projections, not for five or ten years, but for a hundred years. It is true, of course, and we are proud that Chinese companies invest in Serbia, which builds infrastructure, which develops metal complexes for us, mining-topic base, and simply when the bill comes down they have about six billion euros currently projects of investments that will be realised over the next few years. It's great for Serbia and it is the merit of this government. It is the merit of the president and his good personal and quality relationship and good promotion of Serbia as a favourable economic and business destination at global level. Believe me, the Chinese, or anyone else, would invest in Serbia that Serbia is not a safe country and that they are not designing what they need for the next hundred years. You know that very well. What is it with Chinese, Americans and our partners from the EU and any other country in the world that invests here, what does it take for those 100 years? We need peace, we need stability, we need infrastructure, because that's how much money to invest, and you don't have predictability, when it comes to regional stability, the security of the region. We're talking about it today. There's our Home Secretary. So they wouldn't invest if they didn't project that Serbia would be stable, secure and that Serbia is a key player in the region to provide that stability. As for the idea of self and the realization of little Schengen, I think it is good and I think it will help Serbia to be even more competitive, to be even better and what is most important for domestic entrepreneurs to sell as many goods and services as possible. I think that's where you replaced the thesis when you said what the president said. Of course, we'll import. Why don't we import what we don't have. We don't have fish, we don't have seafood we can, say, import from Albania. But we will export many of our products, our knowledge to Albania, and we will measure it, I hope, for dozens and hundreds of millions of euros. As far as KIM is concerned, you've completely replaced the thesis. First, little Shengen doesn't mean the participation of the so-called. Kosovo within that little Schengen, although I have no objection and we wish, of course, that the sooner they come to their senses and take down and withdraw those anti-civilisation taxes on goods and services from central Serbia, the more 100%, because we export 500m euros in goods and services there. And it is our interest, but through little Schengen, we keep in mind the whole region, but also to the entire international community that we can work with, who's a state and who's not a state. We do it every way we can. Both Interpol and UNESCO and every other international forum when it comes to little Schengen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63834	Thank you. Right on line, MP Alexander Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63835	I don't mind, of course, importing what we don't have, but President Vukic wasn't talking about fish and seafood, he was talking about tomatoes. That's what you were supposed to say then that we don't actually have tomatoes, we don't have a chance to produce it, so we're going to import it from Albania. That's what Wolfie used to say, if that's what we're looking at. On the other hand, we, you say predictability needs for some investments. You should. What was the predictability in the creation of this Balkan Schengen and the Balkan Union in the first place? There's no predictability. It was announced one day, and the other day we already agreed. Kosovo will not be presented as a state in Durres. Edi Rama is the biggest advocate of independent Kosovo. We are about to see how Kosovo will be presented in Durres and whether it is possible that Albanians want to work with us without having to do with independent Kosovo. Well, it's not. Of course not. We cannot compensate for those dreams we have dreamed of for twenty years of Serbia's EU membership through such pointless projects, such as little Schengen. We're not isolationists. We don't want to co-operate with just one country and one side of the world or anything like that. We want to co-operate with everyone, but unless we have to pay for that cooperation by giving up our sovereignty, territorial integrity, some other things and some other political pressures. We don't want that. That's not what we stand for. If one small island of 300,000 people could decide to break EU accession talks demonstrate its sovereignty, why Serbia of seven million inhabitants, leader in the region, German standard, Swiss pensions, are the most successful of all, it cannot do that. That's really inexplicable.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63836	Thank you. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Muamer Zukorlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63837	Ladies and gentlemen, it is important to have a hearing for those amendments that essentially or formally improve the quality of the proposed law. The issue of travel documents is of paramount importance, as in use, but also in the overall sense of citizens belonging to a particular state. Because, in fact, the quality and strength of a certain travel document directly affects the sense of pride, self-esteem, dignity, and, I must say, among other things, the feeling of patriotism. Because the state holds the boundaries, holds the territory, holds the resources, holds the levers of power, power, influence. However, if the state remains at the level of only holding, it is not the desired level to be reached at national and national level. The state when it succeeds in crowning the country's status and becoming a country in the fullest sense of that word is, in fact, the right state and what certainly opens up well-being for it in the future. Of course, the state has survival and governance mechanisms, but the country's sense is more than a legal mechanism that involves both feelings, and above all, the feeling of citizens in that country having the opportunity to end their own freedom, their own dignity, their own specialities, cultural, religious and all others. Of course, travel documents are of paramount importance, but also mechanisms of communication and use of these travel documents, especially at border crossings, but also in other positions. In this respect, we from the Sandzak area have an additional interest in travel communications, i.e. the use of travel documents, for the reason that we have this border towards Montenegro which has actually divided one space quite unnaturally, then the orientation to Bosnia and Herzegovina, on the other hand, all of these problems that exist now towards Kosovo. That is why it is of paramount importance for us to point out the need of the state authorities in charge of this area to continue to account, say, according to Montenegro, to extend the capacity of the border crossings, because we have congestion, especially during several months of vacations, both on Brodarevo and on Meso's cross. This question has an extremely negative impact on the normal way of communication of people from that space. We also have more and more of those citizens who come to us that their names are on the border in certain registers and that they are being held, sometimes through information talks, and sometimes through other checks. I understand the need for security services to take account of certain phenomena, however, according to our information, it is some very prominent citizens, people with high functions in the Islamic community. I hereby point to the Ministry of the Interior to strengthen some kind of real information about certain persons under certain supervision, so as not to create an effect that non-selective people are placed on certain lists, checks, without grounds. Also, the issue of new border crossings that we have pointed to earlier is also very important, such as the border crossings desirable, the border crossing between Tutina and Petnica towards Montenegro, near the village of Djerekara, then two border crossings between Presevo and Kumanov. So these are all very, very important moments that should actually be the subject of our attention, given this orientation that this country really proves and shows that the citizen is her target group, that its quality is measured by how much it will serve the citizen, and for his material but also for his immaterial needs and values. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63838	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63839	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, despite the cold, I'm going to try to explain something about a little Schengen. We farmers, when we go to the market, to the market, the market is the market, we take care of how much goods we bring. How much we take to that market depends on how many markets there are consumers. So as many citizens come to that market to buy goods, we carry as much goods, aware of the competition, and sometimes the unfair ones. We don't like dumping, when someone under more favourable conditions sells that stuff. Except that we appreciate the number of customers and the quantity of goods we carry, we adapt our production to the number of customers in that market. To get the goods out, we have to manufacture. To get the money, we have to sell the goods. If there are no customers, then there's no need to manufacture the goods. That gives us less income in the household. Everything I've said refers to the state. The bigger the market, the greater the chance for development. We are on the CEFTA market, and the signature was in 2006, a "small Schengen" only speeding up the transport of goods, where we have a surplus with those surrounding CEFTE member states of nearly two billion euros. So these two billion euros get our businesses, our farmers get, because mostly item number one are agricultural and food products. I do not allow peasants, or us to shoot at the foot of our peasants and get out of the CEFTA market, to prefer to speed up that trade, because our agricultural products will come fresher, more competitive and so on. As far as Albania is concerned, trade with Albania is small, but we are ten times larger exporters than importers. So we have a ten times more favourable relationship between imports and exports. Otherwise, with CEFTA countries, and "small Schengen" is a certain number of countries in the market, our imports are covered by exports with 304%. That means our peasants and our viewers and entrepreneurs know. We sell three times more goods there than we buy, so we bring that much more money into our production, and money is produced, not printed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63840	Thank you. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63841	A better solution is in the existing law, because Serbian citizens will really be amazed if you do not accept this amendment, Mr. Minister, that the MUP commits them to something they can and do not have to do. In which cases Serbian citizens, and other portals, printed media, have written about it, especially when it comes to the season of vacations and when the need for new passports is higher with Serbian citizens due to travel, as you said today because some countries are asking for a period of validity to be longer than six months. We have a situation here that you now, in this proposal for a basic member of 33, say that citizens are obliged to apply for new passports in these and those situations. What are these situations? If a personal description of the user has been changed, i.e. the owner of the passport, in the meantime, since the time when the passport was issued to him. You know what? Cameras, i.e. devices to photograph Serbian citizens when they were issued, were so precise and, ultimately, your predecessor at the time when the equipment was purchased for the first time in Serbia, Ivica Dacic, boasted that they were so precise and defined the appearance of a man, that, since the passport was issued over a period of 10 years, it is impossible for something of his personal description to change now. Here, I can say that you haven't changed anything in the past 10 years, but here, I know some people, and also my colleagues and other parties I've known for 10 and 20 years, and they've changed their personal description a little bit. Now, the citizens can figure it out this way -- yeah, I'm now 40 pounds thin because I want to take care of my health, do I have to go change that? Do you see that on someone's face? You know, it's so wide now understood here. If the travel document, or passport, is damaged, you say – the citizen is obliged to replace it. She put her wife in the washing machine and washed her husband and he says, "What have you done to me, woman?" But he doesn't know the law, and then he's thinking – maybe he won't travel at all. He may have taken a passport, but, well, that's where he was, once or twice. I told you, Mr. Minister, really check it out, because I don't know what the situation is right now, at the Kragujevac MUP, here, ask Mr. Dasic or Mrs. Jasmine to tell you, I think there are a lot of passports that people haven't taken over at all. There are passports like that that they own and have at home. If something like this happens, he doesn't have to wash the washing machine, he gets torn apart by a cat. Now I'm really banalizing because he really doesn't have to do it if he doesn't need that travel document. It's different when he has to travel and do it. After all, everyone is required to report the disappearance of a travel document. Now, if he's going to apply for a replacement, or if the M.O.P. is just going to record that that passport is no longer there. So you've been better off with a solution from the existing law, where all these cases are well cited when it's necessary to do so, but I really can't accept this, it's so widely understood and can be interpreted for a more significant change in face appearance. Does this mean that someone, God forbid, should have some scars on his face or that he had some kind of transformations, etc? You know, it's popular for some now to do it and I have nothing against it to change the look of their face, but if it's such a drastic change, it's okay, but to say – if you change it, and you know it yourself, Mr. Minister, it's sensitive and the subject, that someone else can, unfortunately, health reasons, and now we say – is obliged if, here, and that's the reason, in the end, when I had to take it as an example, to take someone to replace the passport. It's better that solution where it's said that it should be done on the team and team, or that it can. So he can, but he doesn't have to, not commit to do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63842	The word has been made by Parliamentarian Olivera Pesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63843	Thank you, Chairman. A colleague who submitted this amendment requested the removal of a member of the 8th Law, and without hearing any other proposal to improve this law. So Article 8 is a particularly important member of the law and by deleting this member of the law, and without any other alternative, we would be in a situation where we have one law that would be incomplete. In fact, it would absolutely be impossible to pass one of these laws without Article 8. Therefore, Article 8 defines that at the request of the person, a new passport may be issued before the prescribed legal term of Article 27, which is between six months until the expiry of the passport and, of course, at an increased price of the passport form, means more compensation. It is also defined that the person who owns the travel document whose deadline has not yet expired is obliged to replace that travel document if it is damaged, if it is completed or if it has expired. Once again, if we were to delete Article 8, it would not be possible to adopt a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63844	By amendment, MP Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63845	I had the right to reply, because my colleague Pesic completely misunderstood my arguments as to why the ministry should accept this amendment. Mrs. Pesic, today we are discussing amendments to the amendments to the Law on travel documents. Do you understand that? Now, you have a member of the 8th to which my colleague Ljubenovic reacts and asks him to be deleted, but that doesn't mean he won't be a member, because it's not just a member in the basic law. Here, there's Mrs. Rakic, let him explain it to you or one of the lawyers. It's basic law and article 33, and we're just looking, I don't know, you've prepared it to talk, but you could've listened a little before that to me. I have repeated four times that in the basic law, Article 33 is a better solution and that it should remain. He just sent it to be a law without such a defined situation, and to delete this Article 8, because it is, in fact, a member who otherwise regulates this, so if the minister would now say, how do you know, perhaps the majority of the assembly will accept Mr. Ljubenovic's amendment, he will absolutely remain a member of the 33rd but one who regulates the way passport is replaced.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63846	The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63847	I was really shocked earlier, and I heard what counterpart Natasa Jovanovic said to her colleague Pesic, but this is indeed such ignorance, such ignorance of the Rules of Procedure, and now we are wondering what weight laws such MPs vote for have. Nothing personal, I don't want to offend anyone, but a colleague says that if an amendment is accepted to delete Article 8, that the law will be without Article 8. What, it's gonna be on crutches? He's gonna miss one leg? Well, it's amazing. A member of the 8th, my colleague? How many years have you been a MP? Is this your second term? Article 8 actually speaks of Article 33. If Article 8 is deleted, if our amendment is accepted, Article 33 again exists, and Article 8 is some ninth text in relation to this in that basic law. Really amazing ignorance, ignorance. You get angry when we sometimes say that we're confident that you don't even know the name of the law you're talking about, and we're hearing something today that's just amazing. I don't know how many mandates a MP has and believe me, this amount of ignorance, as far as the Rules of Procedure is concerned, I haven't heard. This is my people's ultimate well-meaning, look at the little bar by the end of this term, I don't know who Vukic will dump, the 30% he promised, who will wash away, etc. Like he said, but watch something to learn. You can't go out after one or two terms without knowing what the bill is, what the proposal is to amend and supplement the law. You have a party assignment to have a certain mantra every day, you have a piece of paper that says what you have to say and when something happens in a debate by the MPs of the opposition of the SRS, first of all, and most of all, then you can't change something but you're still reading what's written to you and it's really scary. Terrible for the ears, for the brain what we just heard. I was once when, not you personally colleagues, but there were more members of the government, colleagues who were reading, I really said that I would once take a break to go through the benches and instead of that paper to put in a prescription for the movable and I believe you'd start reading it. The proof is what we heard today. So once again, if the amendment is accepted and Article 8 is deleted, Article 8 exists in the basic law, dear colleague, and Article 33 to which this applies also remains and does not change. That's the point, maybe it's not easy to understand, but if I have to, I'll do it one more time.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63848	National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 9th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63849	Comrade Arsic, may I say, this was really educational a moment ago, but good. Mr. Minister, freedom of movement and housing is foreseen by the Constitution for every citizen and that is something that cannot be denied. No law can later reduce those rights. However, under specific conditions, and this is a good thing that this law provides, when a certain person who is not limited to these conditions would have the right to a travel document. To mention, here is an amendment to Article 9 which refers to Article 35 of the applicable law, so that I do not accidentally run again and say – title above that article, refusal to issue a travel document. This is provided for in five cases where the travel document, if the applicant has not had or had an application to issue it by then, so it has expired, will not be approved. It is if an investigation is conducted against a particular person, if a suspended sentence of three or more months is imposed, until the sentence is regulated. Then, if an international act prohibits a certain person from travelling, a travel document will also be issued to prevent the spread of some infectious or other diseases, in the event of military regulation. These are cases where the competent authority for issuing a travel document will not approve the person who requested a travel document, but we also have a new position on Article 9, which says – if the person already owns a valid travel document taken from the competent authority for the purpose of conducting the procedure, while the procedure is ongoing. There's a point. We suggest that, instead of the point, they place the decimal point and add the words – the request will be rejected by the conclusion. There is a fundamental difference between rejection and rejection. If something is rejected, it means that the competent authority, the court, in this case, the Ministry of the Interior, has a measuring decision on the request. So it's one thought operation, one willing operation, he decides to measure, and the conditions in which he can't get it are already legally foreseen, and that's the point. If he already owns a travel document, but there's a certain procedure, put it here in cases like when there's already restrictions that he can't get a travel card for, then that wouldn't be right. Legally, there would be no work, there is a colleague, Martinovic, he will surely agree that part of the sentence must be added here to make it absolutely right. When you intervened, Mr. Minister, on Article 30 or Article 7 of the bill and you said that you had left the opportunity for the citizen to collect all documents necessary for the issuing of a travel document, you say sometimes this could be faster than the state. I don't think that's right. What kind of state is ours and isn't the Ministry of the Interior responsible for this kind of public affairs, in such a situation, that it assumes that someone will do it before. It can be found for the prize, it might happen, but in the shortest time, if you do, there's no need for that. Next, Mr. Minister, you talked about investing in Serbia. I would ask you as Deputy Prime Minister, this has nothing to do with what is your basic interest as Minister of Police, to try to help you as Deputy Prime Minister, that this capital, or investment that has so far reached Capca, Loznica, extend a little bit to Mali Zvornik, Ljubovije, Bajina Basta and Krupnja, or we may have to marry a minister or marry some lady minister in those places to be sons-in-laws and sisters, so that we can count on that capital. This is said in one way, I wouldn't say a completely funny way, but in a way that you could remember and try to help that part of the community in that sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63850	Thank you. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63851	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my amendment to intervention concerns the service of border control and border police, where I have submitted an amendment to Article 10 of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on travel documents. The bill, where it is requested to delete it, with an explanation that the proposal is not fundamentally different from the current text. The border police are the authority responsible for controlling border crossings, which is already regulated in a member of the existing Act, Article 38. The already mentioned member states that the border police will provide all travel documents, which they temporarily confiscate when carrying out border control operations, to the police administration or to the station that issued the travel document. The draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on travel documents provides for several newspapers, some of which I would, for example, welcome the dispensation of citizens in cases where it is necessary to advertise a travel document invalidity, leaving the current advertising practice in "The Official Messenger", is now simplified by now advertising on the website of the resolution ministry, which releases citizens from the additional cost and burdens they have so far. I must admit that this little help for and such a modest budget of citizens is certainly welcome. In addition to adding that given how our services work, where rows, nervousness is a common picture, it's a daily routine. Citizens will not only save their money, save their nerves and their precious time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63852	Thank you. The 11th Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 11th amendment. The Committee on Defence and Home Affairs submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I would like the representative of the motion to make a statement on the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63853	I accept on behalf of the Government this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63854	Thank you. By adopting amendments from the authorised representative of the legislator, the amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 12th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63855	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Ministers with Associates, I have tabled an amendment to Article 12(2). Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the travel documents law. My amendment refers to a member of the 41st existing law. Although the essence of my amendment is legal-technical character, I will take advantage of the opportunity to say something that I think is very important when it comes to this law. Travel documents are a very important thing to identify each individual. The first thing that falls into the eyes of this type of identification is certainly the name of the state that issued the travel document. We have the misfortune that part of our country's territory is occupied and the state of Serbia has no real control, but our citizens live in that territory. Here, above all, I think of those citizens who see the state of Serbia as their homeland and those of citizens who are loyal to the state of Serbia. A large number of citizens living in KIM have problems with the authorities of the Serbian state responsible for issuing travel documents. Since I was born in Kosovo and Metohija, I still lived until a violent exodus, I speak from the experience of many of my countrymen. I am being contacted by a large number of my Gjilans and other citizens living in Kosovo and Metohija, asking me for help right from the area that represents the subject of this law. These citizens continue to face major problems, when it comes to travel documents, which I find inadmissible. That is why I believe that the government must pay special attention to this category of our citizens, not to make it difficult for them anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63856	Thank you. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP Alexander Seselj. National MP Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 14 of the amendment. Member of the 15th Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Member of the 15th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Verica Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63857	Since we are finishing the debate on this bill, it is important, first of all, to the public, that we have been a little further away from the subject, which is, of course, good, because that is why the National Assembly is serving, to remind us that today we have discussed the law on amendments and amendments to the Law on travel documents and that citizens do not expect that we have dealt with certain epic matters. These are, so, the cosmetic couple of changes, the essential changes in this bill are gone. Generally, the position of the SRS and every minister we say that, if you need to change some law, if you need to do it twice, as in this case, and if that change is not just, I don't know, extending some date, then you really need to seriously consider that this law is proposed in a completely new form. Of course, what was good in that changing law should remain. You know, if you'd done that, then the MPs who would vote for this bill would have made it perfectly clear to them what they were voting for and what they were actually discussing. You've just seen the confusion that has arisen about it because you've proposed amendments and additions to the law. So we Serbian radicals have proposed quite a number of amendments. We have more amendments than the law has members, because we have invested on a member and more, we have submitted more amendments and we have submitted to some of the views that you have not intervened on, because, according to the Rules of Procedure, we have this possibility. We're sorry that you didn't accept the amendments, not because of us, we don't mind that we wrote these amendments, or that we explained them here, we're sorry that we're afraid to read in the paper how some father or some mother is irresponsible, how they kidnapped the child of that other parent, and the custody process is going on, because you've legally allowed only one parent to perform from the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63858	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63859	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, since I have already tried to explain why bigger markets are more likely to develop, why, say, Chinese, Russians, would want to invest more in Serbia, it can be a reason to travel easier, get work permits when investing, because you can invest in more countries and because you have more consumers and you plan your investment against the number of consumers and if it is in Serbia, it is certainly bigger by 20 million people, if the CEFTA market is at stake, or if the EU is for a far larger number of people. That's why investors would want to come to Serbia. Mr. Minister, on the ease of crossing across the border, nothing is disputed, but people like Kurti, Jugoslav Cosic, Rama, etc. must be taken care of. Today, the press says that Yugoslavia's Cosic from Albania, received 249,000 euros from Kosovo sources. We also need to keep an eye on terrorist groups, on the flow of money. You must also look after Bosko Obradovic. He is inclined to take 5,000 euros from Hilandara and not report them and enter into Serbia. You have to be careful, and I believe the police did their job, and you have to keep an eye on the inefficient prosecution. You certainly remember that Boška Obradovica had a reasonable suspicion that the money from the budget was intended for a 35m political party to Dvora, through the entrepreneurial actions of its members, pumped up and put in his pocket. For this money, Bosko Obradović bought an apartment on Vracar, i.e. on Dedinj, in which he lived and who registered to the physical face of his friend who has a construction company in that address. So that money was meant for the election campaign, it was supposed to return neutrally to the Republic of Serbia's budget. He put it, through corporate stores, in his pocket. This crime was committed by Bosko Obradovica, when he realized that the police were on the trail, that was the reason to join the coalition of Dragan Djilas and today the most cruel lies to attack officials, the government of Serbia, and to God, I will tell Serbia, too, wanting the credibility of the state, in matters of, say, arms exports, to question and thus to competition in the sale of arms and ammunition, and certainly, that someone pays, as was paid by Yugoslavia Cosic to represent Kurtija as a desirable political figure, that the Serbian list is problematic because it represents a state of Serbia, that Oliver without a doubt killed Serbs. It's all what we've been listening to on N1 television. I believe that the money Jugoslav Cosic received from the US Embassy, that the money he ended up in his firm, in his personal accounts and associated face to face with him, amounting to over 1,400,000 euros, was the reason why some shows are organised, why the state of Serbia, its officials and suspects that they, not Albanians, killed Oliver Ivanovic, even though Kurti himself declared him a terrorist, several times closed down, tried to convict him. Jugoslav Ćosic, his television, unregistered media in Serbia, thanks to the money that is being imported from Albania, from the US Embassy, wants all that guilt to transfer to the state of Serbia, its officials and the goal is clear – destabilisation in favour of our opponents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63860	Thank you. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. According to Article 87(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby appoint Thursday, November 14, 2019, starting at 15.30 p.m. as the day for voting on the agenda points of the 5th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-14-0.u63861	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before we move to a decision on the agenda points, we need to determine the quorum, and please insert your identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic system has established that 131 MPs are present in the O.R. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on travel documents, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 131 against – there is no one with abstentions. I find the bill accepted, in principle. We're moving on to the amendments. I would like to put the amendments to the First People's MP Dubravko Bojic's vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to the 2nd People's MP, Nemanje Sarovic, to vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to put the amendments to the MEP Ruzica Nikolic vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I'm putting the amendments to the 2nd People's MP, Alexander Seselj. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Member of the 3rd People's Parliament, Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: for – six, against – there is no one, with abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Member of the 3rd People's MP, Peter Jojic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to the 5th People's MP, Verica Radeta, to vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to the 6th People's MP, Verica Radeta, to vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to the 7th People's MP, Sreta Peric. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to the 7th People's MP Nikola Savic to vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting the amendments to the vote on the 8th People's MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to the 9th People's MP, Sreta Peric. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to the 10th National MP Zoran Despotovic's vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to the vote on the 11th People's MP, Alexander Seselj. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting the amendments to the vote on the 11th People's MP Marijan Risticevic. Finalising vote: for - ten MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Member of the 12th People's MP Nemanje Sarovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Member of the 12th National MP Filip Stojanovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I'm putting the amendment to the 13th People's MP, Alexander Seselj. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Member of the 14th People's MP, Milorad Mircic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to the vote on the 15th People's MP Alexander Seselj. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I'm putting the amendments to the vote on the 15th People's MP, Verica Radeta. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on travel documents, in general. Finalising vote: for – 132 MPs. I find that we have adopted a bill on amendments and amendments to the Law on travel documents. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Agreement amending the Agreement on Operational and Strategic Co-operation between the Republic of Serbia and the European Police Office, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 133, against – no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Serbia and the United States Ministry of Internal Security on improving co-operation in order to prevent terrorist travel and the fight against illegal migration in general. I conclude the vote: for – 133, against – no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Union Agency for Co-operation in the implementation of the law on the appointment of liaison officers in general. I conclude the vote: for – 133, against – no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Tunisia on the replacement and use of driving licences, in general. Finalising vote: for – 132 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on co-operation in the area of protection against natural and caused disasters, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 133 MPs, against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Governments of the Black Sea Economic Co-operation States on Co-operation in emergency situations and emergency response to natural and caused disasters and the Additional Protocol under the Agreement between the Governments of the Black Sea Economic Co-operation States on Co-operation in the provision of emergency assistance and emergency response to natural and caused disasters, in general. Finalising vote: for – 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill. I put to the vote the proposal of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy to choose Nebojsa Peric as the President of the Competition Protection Commission. Finalising vote: for – 132 MPs. I find that the National Assembly chose Nebojsa Peric as president of the Competition Protection Commission most of the votes. Before moving to a decision, I remind you that the list of candidates for the selection of members of the Competition Protection Council contains the same number of candidates as the number of members elected. I put to the vote the proposal of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy to elect Daniela Bocan as a member of the Competition Protection Council. I conclude the vote: for – 132 MPs, one MP did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Daniela Bocan as a member of the Commission's Competition Protection Council. I put to the vote the proposal of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy to elect Miroslav Djosic as a member of the Competition Protection Council. I conclude the vote: for – 133 MPs, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the National Assembly has selected Miroslav Djosic as a member of the Commission's Competition Protection Council most of the votes. I put to the vote the proposal of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy to elect Dr Siniša Milosevic as a member of the Competition Protection Council. I conclude the vote: for – 132 MPs, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted. I find that the National Assembly chose Dr Siniš Milosevic as a member of the Commission's Competition Protection Council most of the votes. I am voting on a motion for a decision to elect a member of the National Bank of Serbia's Board of Governors, in general. The candidate is Dr Nikola Martinovic. I conclude the vote: no one, the abstentioned one, voted for – 131 MPs, against. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote a proposal for a decision on the selection of a member of the Securities Commission as a whole. The candidate is Marija Djordjevic. I conclude the vote: for – 133 MPs, against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by majority. Let me, on behalf of the MPs and for my own sake, congratulate the elected bearers on the election and wish them much success in their further work. We're moving on to Rules of Procedure's injuries. National MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic, at a session on 13 November 2019, at 11 o'clock and 55 minutes, suggested injuries to members 27, 106, 104 and 32. Rules of Procedure. Please plead. No one's pleading. National MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic, at a session on 13 November 2019, at 11 o'clock and 58 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure. Please plead. No one's pleading. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, at a session on 13 November 2019, at 12 hours and 1 minute, pointed to injuries from members 107, 106 and 105. Rules of Procedure. Please plead. No one's pleading. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, at a session on 13 November 2019, at 12 hours and 4 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 103. Rules of Procedure. Please plead. Thank you. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, at a session on 13 November 2019, at 12 hours and 15 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 112. Rules of Procedure. Please plead. No one's pleading. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, at a session on 13 November 2019, at 12 hours and 23 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure. Please plead. No one's pleading. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, at a session on 13 November 2019, at 12 hours and 34 minutes, pointed to injuries from members 106 and 107. Rules of Procedure. Please plead. No one's pleading. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, at a session on 13 November 2019, at 12 hours and 53 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure. Please plead. No one's pleading. National MP Vjerica Radeta, at a session on 13 November 2019, at 12 hours and 57 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 32. Rules of Procedure. Please plead. No one's pleading. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, at a session on 13 November 2019, at 13 hours and 3 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure. Please plead. No one's pleading. National MP Vjerica Radet, at a session on 13 November 2019, at 13 hours and 8 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 27(1). Rules of Procedure. Please plead. No one's pleading. National MP Vjerica Radet, at a session on 13 November 2019, at 13 hours and 16 minutes, pointed to a violation of Rule 109th item 1 of the eighth Rules of Procedure. Please plead. No one's pleading. We believe the Rules of Procedure have not been broken. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude the fifth session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019.
