ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56745	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the 12th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 86 peoples. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 91 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that at least 84 MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings were prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Milisav Petronijevic, Ivan Bauer, Branimir Jovanovic, Djordje Milicevic and Stefana Miladanovic. We continue our work and move on to the search on details on the second item of the agenda – Proposal for a law on the determination of public interest and special procedures for the implementation of projects for the construction of the infrastructure corridor of the highway E-761 shares of Pojate-Preljina. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the sittings are invited by Professor Zoran Mihajlovic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Construction and Traffic Infrastructure with Associates. You have received amendments submitted by MPs, as well as by the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds. By written amendments to Article 17, MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic pulled back. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds submitted the amendment to Article 3. At the meeting of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds, the proposing representative adopted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? She's a colleague of Alexandra Tomic's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56746	I thank the chairman. Before I move specifically to this amendment 3, I would like to say that, under the proposal of this Law on the establishment of public interest with special procedures, in order to implement the project of building the infrastructure corridor of the E-761 highway, 28 amendments have been submitted to the Committee, but that the need for the proposal of the law for the Committee to submit certain amendments concerning, in particular when we talk about Article 3, that the list of immovableities which can be established of public interest for expropriation is extended to immovableities that involve the provision of construction material, as well as the construction of temporary facilities in the function of building a major facility. Otherwise, all amendments should practically help better and clearer definition of the complete project for more effective implementation of the project itself and it is obvious that not only one ministry is enough, but the entire government and more ministries are participating in the realization of such important and strategic projects. I thank Ministerially for being on the Committee, for accepting these amendments, or for coming to these solutions together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56747	Thank you. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56748	The fact that the Committee has submitted three amendments in some important areas tells us how unprepared the Government's proposal was, how bad it is and how bad it fits what we talked about in principle, which we will continue today. This amendment to Article 3 is particularly interesting, as it explains in its explanation – this amendment completes the above provision in the proposal for a law by enabling the determination of public interest in the expropriation of immovableity to expropriate the immovableity needed to provide building material for the loan, disposal, quarrys, dumps, etc. All that on the Moravia Corridor. This is very interesting, first of all, how the government as a proposing thought it was doing these jobs, without providing land for these purposes, that's one thing. The second thing, is this what I was talking about and what I warned Mrs. Mihajlović about not having happened what she already said herself that she met at the construction of these already completed corridors or those who are working, that some people have some plots that would be nice to give to the temporary use of the state for, here, these purposes that don't mean anything, because we have in the law envisaged and these temporary expropriations. This is something special, this is a drug specialis in the medicine specialis. This is for sure, it's not clean work, we got the amendment yesterday, there was little time to go through the track and figure out what it was, but God of health, the public would be familiar with that.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56749	National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56750	Yes, I want a word, Mr. Arsic. Imagine what a coincidence it is that today and today's debate on these amendments begin by running into this Kyle Scott, the American ambassador, the chief lobbyist for this job. I'm looking to see if she's running behind the minister's hand or if she's taking him, but let's start from the beginning. In order to perform the expropriation as mentioned here in Article 3 with the escort, and we are asking for the word to be deleted, of course the infrastructure is needed. Now, we come to this, Mrs. Mihajlović, on a particular problematic part of this Moravia Corridor, what kind of infrastructure, what kind of land is it, and I'm going to ask you about some specific things. You have repeatedly said that this is an ideal opportunity, of course with this job that Scott has singled out, that Bechtel Enka is doing it for 300m euros more, that it will be an ideal opportunity for the entire flow of West Morava and that blue area to be arranged now, the tributaries of the river and all the problems that have been solved for years. I don't know if you remember when you first showed up here in this term, we were asking you a question at a set of your laws, as well as Minister Nedimovic, why you didn't solve it, you're the Minister of Government for the area, the problems that the locals, which will be the subject of their country in villages in the Western Morava valley, expropriation, means you and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, especially your ministry, for those parcels that the Morava River, not changing their course naturally, but because of the sand and gravel of the mafia took their country. Now imagine you ladies and gentlemen of the People living there your relatives, friends, some godfathers, relatives, getting into a situation of these people, first they're still guessing on the whole part of the King to Chacka where it's going to go. You say, last time there was this map here and they're stealing five minutes from me, Mr. Arsic, so you wouldn't let me use that map, remember what you were doing a few days ago. Here, on this one you can see, but nicely said, only in July is the complete and accompanying documentation and the complete project will be completed, adopted by the government and will do professional services. So they don't even know today, unlike where this process started from Pojat to Kruševec, these people have no idea where the highway is going to go. You know, now, let's say there's a famous place in Mrcayevci, and if you're there now, the main theme is, I guarantee, among the locals and those at the market, the local cafes, where the highway will pass. You know what their problem is? The problem is, there's one place like this, according to the way it stands, there's no disfellowshipping. There's no loop. You are now coming from the direction of Kragujevac and you want to join the Moravia Corridor then you have to go, or it's different, and you know it but you can't see it here. Tell us both you and your associates how that's gonna happen. Now, Mrs. Mihajlovic, who's going to defile these people before this process goes where this route should pass? They established an association, they submitted to the competent state authorities and the "Serbian" and to your ministry and the Government of the Republic of Serbia a request to go out on the ground and to the local self-government of the city of Cačka, including the city of Kralje, not to list these villages, but the most risky examples are in the villages of Katrga and Obrva, where people who have, for decades, their land is listed on the name of that and that, the catastrasic plot is now under water or on the other hand, or there is gravel. You may say the same as that unfortunate Velimir Ilic who said – come on, steal a little bit, in 2005 or 2006 when we asked him, he says - well, what do we do, the saying is, it changes its course. It wasn't but the mafia, which wasn't prevented, undermined the riverbed, created such an erosion of land that we also had floods in these two villages, so that I could tell you responsibly, in certain parts, because for decades, no one cared. Now we've come to this project of the Moravia Corridor and this job and only now will these things be solved. To offer people and to define that price you're going to give them, you know and here it's said, here in this article, which can't be less than marketable, imagine what it would be like for you if you couldn't use it, imagine you, Mr. Arsic, you're an economic expert, if you couldn't use that country. So she didn't have any market value, you couldn't make any money, so you can sow, plant, you've lost it for years.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56751	The word has the People's MP Katarina Rakic. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56752	Mr. Chairman, I'd just like to remind you that today we're talking about the law here in particular and I'd just like to get you back on the subject, on the amendment, we had a long time ago, even, I can say, free to say, and give a lot of time to some parties who didn't get in the elections at that time when we actually get time to speak in the assembly. As for the particularly previous amendment, in this way we will not have a serious debate today if in each speech we will speak in general and repeat the story again from Monday when we talked about the law in principle. So please, if you want to have one serious discussion today about the amendments, we're talking about each amendment in such a way as to order.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56753	Get to the amendment of my colleague, Rakic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56754	You're warning me, I'm going to change the amendment anyway. As far as this amendment is concerned, one word has been asked to be deleted, and I will now read to you from the context, the Moravia Corridor with the accompanying necessary infrastructure. So this is where the word is asked to be deleted. In fact, only speaking time is required here. One word more or less here really doesn't change the essence. What we heard on Monday, or Tuesday, when the debate was in principle, is that the process itself, i.e. the project itself, is good and that the law is wrong. What I'd do if I didn't do right by the law, and I'd have absolutely the right to do that, I'd file on every member of the amendment to wipe out an entire article and write what's right with me. Not according to this amendment to this article, not by anyone else, I don't see anyone here essentially liking anything to change anything. This erasure of words, changing the context, lecturing, legal-technical editorials does not indicate that opposition MPs do not like this law and that it is unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56755	Right on line, counterpart Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56756	To begin with, colleague Rakic, concentrate on the law and on what it says, be a little more present at the meetings of the Assembly, the second, third time you appear in this session and talk seriously when you say you are educated for it. Uh, you understood Mrs. Mihajlović, why we deleted this word, because the necessary documentation must certainly be required, but you have understood from my earlier presentation, only I have no answer, that this infrastructure is problematic in these shares that I'm talking about. I couldn't tell you that that day, because Mr. Arsic stole my time of service and confirmed it, or took it away, however you wish.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56757	Comrade Jovanovic, talk about the amendment. Your colleague Arsic didn't steal anything from you, and you received a report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56758	So it's really a problem for those people who didn't come into existence yesterday, or the day before, not even when you became a minister, but it has been back ten or more years. I ask you to give me the responsibility of both you and your associates whether any service, the Ministry's inspection will come out before then on the ground, talk to these people, not put them before the final act. What if it's just those families, here's what they're really wondering, seriously, people believe it, they live on it. This valley of West Morava and these plots are exclusively intended for vegetation. No one else in these villages has ever dealt with anything else. It's a shredded property, it's, you'll see for yourself when you go into that expropriation process, that these are possessions of one and a half, two acres, I don't know three people in a piece. Now, when you get there, then you'll realize that right where it's going to go, with this documentation, the Moravia Corridor, there's going to be the biggest problem, because some will be excluded from it because someone's going to have a plot underwater. You understand, as the Morava stream goes, now it's changed course for these reasons. Not because they're natural aspects, it can all be determined, but because of this mob that's been doing it, which someone has allowed for years. Meanwhile, this lady, a colleague Rakic, is saying something that doesn't matter what she says. Ma'am, let's get somebody to take it from you and you're out of your own country, and that's where it's supposed to go. Then don't say anything that you don't understand and you haven't even read it right.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56759	The People's MP Katarina Rakic has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56760	Okay, I wouldn't use this as a replica, first of all because I don't know what basis my colleague used to say before me, which is why she got the word, because I didn't even get anything from her...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56761	Replicate and leave the session to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56762	I have not responded to the replica, I have reported for the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 27, because I do not think we can speak like this today, we can not speak in this way, and once again I ask you, today there is a very, very serious bill on the agenda, a bill aimed at establishing public interest, and a path that will indeed be of great importance in Serbia, first of all for the citizens of Serbia and the most important direction in Serbia, and I do not think that we will certainly contribute to today's discussion, so please, really talk about the amendment when we talk about the amendment, and that we are talking about the replica when we talk about the replica. Indeed, the previous speaker did not have the right to reply, behold, I am now not repeating my name again, although only repetition, or... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56763	Col. Rakic, about whether anyone has the right to reply or not, while I am chairing, not you. (Katarina Rakic: That's why I point to you. So, you were talking about the amendment and the applicant of the amendment, and that's why you gave the line. (Katarina Rakic: No, no, the right to replica is only when I misrepresent the predecessor, you can read it. I didn't insult anyone here. So please, just explain to me the previous time... ( ) Do you want the Assembly to make a statement in the voting day or not? (Catarina Rakic: No, I don't want to. I just want you to explain to me how you're going to count the time of your previous speaker, since he had no right to reply and now tell me. So five minutes plus three... ) This is not what I, colleague Rakic, calculates the system. (Katarina Rakic: Okay, system, just tell me how to calculate the system. ) The word has a People's MP, Aleksandar Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56764	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have also stated in the principle debate that we will strongly support this bill that we believe will contribute to the construction of highways, to raising the quality of the level of road and railway infrastructure, and that is what is undeniable in this regard and I think we have not heard any contest to this bill. It is simply unacceptable for me to insist in the work of the public and deny all that has been achieved so far in this field, which is to improve travel and railway infrastructure. I can't accept how someone can insist that nearly 450km of roadwork isn't good for Serbia. So I really can't accept that. Since that's 500 miles is not good, and zero is good. These are the ones we keep listening to from those who are not in this room today, and those are the ones we listen to on some of the media persistently, among other things, the N1. This morning as I was preparing for my job, I had the opportunity to listen to some N1 TV experts, and I accidentally turned on N1 and there was an expert, some cartoonist, I think that Petricic's last name, who spent half an hour talking about how the Serbian people were illiterate, how the Serbian people were stupid, I apologized for saying this, but he claimed this at this morning's hospitality, that the Serbian people were uneducated and the leaders had not thought to stop him, felt the need to intervene at one point in the persistent insult of the Serb people, that the Serbian people were masochistic because they voted for the wolf and SNS. I think it's totally unacceptable and that's what we've had for months now, there's a hysteria and a campaign directed against SNS, against Alexander Vukic, against the ruling majority, against the Serbian government, despite the fact that we've never heard anything concrete on their part when it comes to those results we talked about and the results that are ultimately a direct product of this bill. That is why I would like to call for us to reject this amendment and thus give strong support to all efforts by the government of Serbia and Alexander Vukic to make Serbia a well-organised, successful and decent country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56765	I thank my colleague Markovic. On Article 5 of the amendment was tabled by the People's MP, Ms. Radet. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56766	When I saw that this amendment had not been accepted and yet read the explanation, one logical conclusion was imposed. Minister Zorana Mihajlovic insults the MPs, she is only here to pass through the Assembly formally and can't wait for this job to end, to "Bechtel" get 300 billion euros to be shared with her and that's the essence of her work here. Here's a reason why I claim so. When we spoke in the principle debate and in Article 5, where "Serbia" is defined as a user of expropriation to perform works on the regulation of the river Morava's water supply, then Mrs. Mihajlovic said, on our remark that the missing parcels that have disappeared must be solved, Natasa talked about it earlier, because of the mob theft of gravel from the river Morava, not only now, we are talking about the river Morava, but it is present in other areas and in other water streams in Serbia, but on the river Morava in particular. Then Zorana Mihajlovic said she knew about the problem and that this is probably the moment to solve the problem. Then she said that the amendment could not be accepted, and we asked the amendment to resolve it, that the "Serbian" problem should be resolved before it enters the expropriation process. Then she said no amendment was accepted for the reason that the expropriation procedure is a special procedure, which means when it is conducted in relation to the registered immovable property owner, which solves the property-legislative relationship needed to obtain a building permit. This is a little messed up and messed up, you know what expropriation is. But, he says, if there is a claim on any of the plots in question by the owner of the damage caused by the digging of the gravel, as stated in this amendment, it is, in that case, a bonding relationship between the owner and the person who caused the damage. Now a man could conclude here, a lawyer could conclude that those faces are in a bonding relationship, that they have some kind of contract with those landowners with whoever stole their gravel. It really has nothing to do with the brain. Next, do you know what the real problem here is? One kind of problem is what counterpart Natasa Jovanovic said, that people had lost parcels, that people had disappeared acres and hectares of ownership of their plots, not because they had done it to nature with Morava, but because criminals from the locals had done it along the streams of the river and the basin of the Morava River. What happened next? These people, meanwhile, pay taxes on the country they don't even have physically, not that they can't process it, but they don't have it physically, and on the other hand, they're also paying, imagine an absurd, some sort of disposal fee, and their plot deep in the water, and now they're still paying for its disposal. Now, what else can be a serious problem here where the damage will not only have those people, but the damage will have the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Mrs. Mihajlović, these associates of yours must first of all hear, if you expunge, which is normal, on the basis of the property list, this map here you showed us here shows a large number of parcels that do not exist, which are in Moravi, and they are part of the corridor, and you will then invite someone who owns that parcel to do the expropriation, that someone knows that his parcel is in Moravi, he will accept the expropriation, he will accept whatever compensation you choose, and you will literally expropriate on the ground a plot that is next to you, for which you have no ownership list, which is not on this map, I have carefully looked at the map and then when you enter the plot to say, hey, are you normally, how can you take my plot, when no action has been made? Then you'll have to pay that man, that owner, that legal or physical person to pay for that parcel. It's normal that you have to pay. And if this is funny to you, we will laugh at you when we have these cases on the ground. I'm telling you, this is true. I'm telling you that you're taking the land that is water, the parcels that are Morava, and you're not taking Morava for the corridor, you're taking the plots that go next to Morava. So you just turn down our amendments, and you'll see that this problem is going to be solved and it won't end up here just stealing 300 billion euros that you and Bechtel have stolen, but there will be a lot more problems with people who have parcels along this Moravian corridor.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56767	The word is from colleague Katarina Rakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56768	Thank you. Here, the amendment promoter said this was funny, if the minister were laughing, and I'd add that what she was saying wasn't funny, but scary, and really, if this were how she carried it, it would be really scary. But fortunately, in one serious state, of course not, nor will it be. Here, I will now explain what is said in the explanation and what I understand as a lawyer, and we can talk about that there may be some different opinions without being right. Article 5 sets out the Public Enterprise "Serbian Water" for the user of expropriation. So, for the user, someone who's just gonna use that country to expropriate itself. Now this country is the land of private owners. Here, I'll give you an example, since one of the previous speakers said - imagine going through your plot. Well, I'd look forward to having my way through the plot, first of all, that place where I live would certainly get a lot from that trip, and certainly wouldn't have taken that plot away from me, but would have paid market prices, and later on, I and my place would have a lot of good, new investors would have come and I would certainly have hired a place and I wouldn't have said much more in the principle debate, not to be the same as they are now, and I resented it at the beginning of it. As far as the amendment itself is concerned, a position has been added, i.e. it is proposed to add an attitude that says "Serbia leads", as a future user of the country that needs to be expropriated, to address the property-legal relations of those citizens to which someone was digging gravel on the plot and then they disappeared. Now I ask you, would you, would I, would any of us today, be doing something to him on the plot, sitting and watching his plot disappear and waiting for him to pass by, have Morava turn away, take away his claim? No, I mean, if I saw someone working on my plot, I'd handle the situation myself, I wouldn't wait for someone to explicate the country, to have a user come in and that user solves it on my behalf. That's absolutely pointless. What's said in the answer is what's logical, that the parcels are expunged as they were seen and that the current user of course can't solve something that's been your job as a private person to solve. It's really pointless to me, and that's how I understood it. Of course, I repeat the story from the beginning of the amendment, what you said, it would really be terrible to be and I really agree with that. But the point of this law is not to fool anyone, to harm anyone... (The Faith of Radeta: Swear.) )......................................................................................................... And in addition to that, it says that 46 kilometers of water flow will be arranged once and for all, that we haven't forgotten in 2014, catastrophic floods in this area. So if we don't do something good with this law for the future of this neighborhood, nothing will be done anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56769	Right on the line, my colleague, Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56770	We are about this law, and we are in principle debate, and today we are going to debate very seriously and professionally. What we refer to as examples that will happen in practice, unfortunately, is something that will really and certainly happen. We now have a problem with a colleague who is trying to reach Zorana Mihajlović in every way possible, I don't know why, but I have to tell her that as far as we have information, Zorana doesn't work on her social networks, it's done to her by some others, so she's free of all the likes. But as a graduate lawyer who's been doing expropriation procedures for 17 years, I promise I won't rephrase to a lawyer who says the plot is expropriated or something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56771	The 6th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Sreto Peric submitted to Article 8 of the amendment. Here you go, colleague Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56772	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, at the very beginning of these amendments, I would like to draw your attention that we also take away the opportunity to abuse and say that there are some people who are against building highways, infrastructures at all. Among the SRS MPs, among the members of the SRS and among Serbian citizens, you cannot find any normal man who is against the construction of highways or other infrastructure at all. We in one very serious and reasoned way point out what problems and failures of this law and what can in practice appear as a problem. So we felt the need to submit an amendment to Article 8, because there was a public interest in building this highway and everything you said and your colleagues, how many residents in that area live and how many businesses there are registered, how many monasteries and other reasons for building this highway, we don't even understand it that way. Since a public interest in a specific expropriation, i.e. for the construction of this highway, Article 8 says it is - that evidence is submitted and closer to the location of the place where the expropriation and evidence of the security funds will be carried out. Article 2 states under which conditions it is proved that the funds are secured. That's not some serious evidence, but not to mention it right now. Then we come to the position of the 3rd member who says - evidence of the established public interest - is to invite the end-user to this law. What does that mean when there's evidence of a found public interest that we're inviting users to this law? Does this mean that in the Criminal Code, any other code or any general act adopted by this Assembly, we need to inform someone that a regulation has been passed and that we are calling upon him to apply that law? There are high-level lawyers here, some of whom are involved in scientific research, some of them are professors at the university, and they know that it's not good to add lex specialis, or special laws, because he, I'm saying now to understand this broad public, not just professional, puts aside the general law. It leaves the possibility of abuse, and we have already pointed out in the debate in principle, what is the biggest problem and what can lead to abuse and that of colleagues who support the government, they will not hear about it, because they are just talking about the need to build this highway, which is not at all controversial. The 300 million we don't know where and how and how they're going to be used, it's a dispute, and this is, if I can't say something stupid, it doesn't suit me, but a more pointless attitude than this I've never seen before. The government now says this is why it did not accept this amendment, so it says that it is establishing good practice. We don't even know what practice it's going to be. What colleagues of Verica and Natasha were talking about, what other colleagues are arguing about, that's what practice will establish, establish and even the practice, we can only reach out to it when something comes to life, when something is in place. There, Mrs. Mihajlovic probably knows what problems will arise, so she wants to establish good practice, so this doesn't happen any further. I think this amendment should have been accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56773	National MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 9th amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56774	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and to Article 9. We have submitted an amendment to the bill, and we have proposed that Article 9 in Article 2 of the word "someone" should be deleted. This amendment has been implemented legally – technical editorial of the text, since each third person entered as a land user has a personal name or name if it is a legal person. In particular, this Article 9 refers to persons who are paid expropriation fees. We also pointed out in the context of the principle debate that the Expropriation Act, this law that relies on it, that it was very bad and that it was better that you didn't appeal to the worst parts of that law. The project of the construction of the Moravian Corridor which started, which is planned since 2010 did not go far. This bill provides for land expropriation to build a highway, which we support. It is said that the price cannot be lower than the market price. In the vicinity of Kruševec, where the expropriation started, 30 out of 2,100 solutions were made by the end of April and agricultural land was paid for by the 200th dinar. When it comes to the number of solutions made, don't you think that's very little for this period? When the price of building the road Poiti – Preljina is said to be 800m euros and for this job is signed the Memorandum with the US company Bechtel. We all know that this company wherever it worked they were following different affairs. We Serbian radicals are just against this company to work on this project and we believe that the adoption of such a law will legalise only the theft of 300m euros received by Bechtel, as the job could have been negotiated with another company, with a Chinese firm for 500m euros. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56775	The word is from colleague Katarina Rakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56776	Thank you. I'll get the amendment. This is another example of what I was talking about at the beginning, that opposition colleagues say – the law is bad and then propose one legal – technical order. I would remind you that certainly the law, any law, or any laws that are passed, which we say later pass, before publication, legal – technical order, and that these things are done right then. What you would prove is that this law is bad is, if you were to submit an amendment to one of these amendments, or an amendment, let's say that you delete an entire article, and you write what you think is a good thing to suggest, if you already say that the construction process itself is a good project to build the Moravia Corridor, and the law is bad, and one without the other is not going to work. Then why didn't you delete this whole article, this whole law, and suggest how good it is for you lawyers, how should it be for you, and not do some legal – technical editorials, which will certainly do the service that is paid for it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56777	The word is by MP Radoslav Jovic. Here you go. Comrade Joviæ, do you want a word or not? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56778	There's something wrong with the microphone. Oh, that's good. Dear colleagues and colleagues, dear Madam Minister, with great pleasure I can say that this law has come to a very good reception with my fellow citizens in the Kingdom, I can say a neighbor in Chačka, Vranjska Banja, Trstenik and I do not count any further. Why? Because this project solves two key problems in the area. One problem is that we are improving important, cardinal infrastructure in that area and we are enabling, of course, the development of the economy and everything that is necessary in that area. The second, very important goal is to address the issue of floods that little, little, come as a result of the unregulated waterbed of the West Morava River. Therefore, I would like to inform you that citizens, people living in that area, if they were looking forward to anything, were looking forward to this very project and its realization. So I ask you to continue with this full intensity as much as you have worked on all the projects, on the corridors, to continue to work you have full support, and us MPs, of course, and fellow citizens we represent. Finally, I would ask you, knowing how agile and persistent you are to solve the problem, yes, please pay attention to these floods that we had a few days ago. These are the flash floods that took several bridges to the area and made life impossible for people in suburban settlements. To pay attention that these projects are being implemented as soon as possible so that people can live normally, because they are now quite difficult to solve many of their life’s problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56779	The word has a minister, Mrs. Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56780	Thank you for reporting, first of all, because you are from the Kings and, of course, like all citizens who live along the future section between Pojat and Preljina, they know very well, and of course the whole of Serbia, how important the highway that will be built between Pojat and Preljina is. Before I start something about the flash floods you mentioned, as far as I know, we also had a meeting yesterday. The "New Pazar Way" has received all tasks from both "The Way of Serbia" and from the Serbian government. So not only the bridges, but everything that happened in the previous period will be solved quickly, because the projects are ready and they are already on the ground and working. So, as the Serbian government does, it is to try to make sure that no one, above all, is damaged, refers precisely to this highway that we are working on, between Pojata and Preljina, related to the expropriations and to all the problems that were once, but also potential problems, so the interest of the Serbian government, the interest of investors of the future government, some future performer, which the Government of the Republic of Serbia will choose, none of the citizens, can be damaged. The construction of this highway begins, we hope for summer, and it will last two and a half years, and I think it will mean a lot, just in connection to this whole neighborhood. What I think is important, too, is that we've kept an eye on not only the stock itself, not only that all the designers are in the field, we've kept an eye on it, and we're going to make sure that the citizens have insight into every point of the future highway that goes from Pojata to Preljina, because that's important to the citizens. It is not the government of Serbia that makes roads and railways and airports so that they can boast about it somewhere, but that citizens can benefit from it and live better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56781	The word is from a colleague Jelena Žarić Kovačević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56782	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mrs. Mihajlovic, I was encouraged by my colleague Jovic to answer. I am glad that MPs from the part of Serbia who will pass through the Moravia Corridor are talking about how citizens react to such large projects. When we talk about the Moravia Corridor, it should always be mentioned, except how much investment is worth, what impact it will have and what benefits it will bring for the citizens, but what benefits it will bring for all the companies that operate in these cities and municipalities. New roads mean easier business, new investment, new investments mean new jobs, and everything will ultimately result in a better living standard for citizens. If we mention some other results of the work of the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure in the details of the Moravski Corridor, it just means that we did not do those roads, the Moravski Corridor would have nothing to connect with, this way we will have a large road infrastructure that Serbia will ultimately be able to be proud of. If we know that from 2014 to 2018, it was built 445 kilometers of travel infrastructure, then there are another 100 kilometers of construction, but what it means specifically and what I want to put an accent on, is that when we hear that the planned projects include 698 kilometers of road infrastructure. This is what the serious city's results are saying, in fact, about the government's serious intensity that Serbia really is a modern and advanced country. As far as this amendment is concerned, I would agree with everything with my colleague Katarina Rakic, and I suggest that it be rejected and this bill of law will certainly support the day of voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56783	Thank you. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's Messenger, the Prophet of Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56784	A moment ago, Natasa Jovanovic warned me. He says I wrongly said that Zorana Mihajlovic with Bechtel and Scott stole 300 billion euros, so here I apologize, it's 300m euros. Now, if there's nothing against this fellow who expropriates the parcels, I'd like something about this Article 9. This Article 9 is something that is very bad. It's bad, first of all, for people who'll be expunged by parcels. It is deliberately envisaged here that in this last position, where we have an amendment that it is about expropriation and administrative transfer of immovableity, and now I would not waste my time professionally explaining what expropriation is and what administrative transfer is, but it is obvious that there is as much administrative transfer as possible here and as little conversion as possible for people to be damaged in this process. We said in the principle debate that no one in their right mind could be against the construction of this corridor or any other corridor, and then when someone on this side says that someone is better at zero kilometers, than, I don't know, 400 kilometers of highway, etc., that looks just as degutant, and doesn't deserve any attention, no comment. So we don't mind building this corridor. We understand that the general interest must be determined. We understand that the general interest must suffer every natural and legal person whose parcels, or other immovableities, are covered by this law, a Lex specialise that determines the general interest, but we do not understand and accept and it is unacceptable for anyone to be damaged in this procedure. So, if one is a fact-finding owner of a plot still being held in the catastrus as a social property, which is not in the Constitution, but in the Catastres there is, which is still being held as a public property, and in fact, the property of a person must be allowed to make a conversion and to be the bearer of an expropriation. What is foreseen by this final position of Article 9 is pure theft. Pure theft of the immobilities of people who have not in the meantime made a conversion, and the state is certainly... When I tell the state, I mean whoever's going to do this specifically, it certainly pays more to deal with the administrative transfer of land, so the state institution will regulate it in a different way than when it comes to expropriation, when people have to pay what's being taken away from them. You say in an explanation, among other things, that you cannot accept the amendment because this amendment would not achieve the objective of adopting this law, which is to speed up all proceedings, including the process of expropriation. The aim of the law can't be just to speed up all procedures. The aim of the law, in addition to speeding up all procedures, must be, above all, justice, because this is about the fact that along this corridor, many natural and legal persons, some willing, some reluctantly, will be taken away from their immovable property, plots, houses, business spaces, whatever. No one in this procedure should be harmed. It is enough that in this business, the 300m-euro budget, which will be given to Bechtel, is damaged to be further fed with Zoran and Scott. Then don't damage individual people whose immovableity goes through this corridor.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56785	The word is from colleague Katarina Rakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56786	Thank you. We've got another situation here. What if it were? The proposer of this amendment again brings one situation as well as in the case of Pebble. It leaves the possibility that some citizens will be deprived, or damaged because they did not exercise their right, and they had years and years to, if at all, have the right to exercise the right to use, to transfer the right of use to property rights on their parcels, but, behold, they have waited for the road to pass, to explode, and at that moment they will transfer land to property rights. The purpose of this law is what I said at the beginning, which is to build the Moravia Corridor. Of course, the goal is to speed up all procedures. That's why you bring public interest to this law. I would only repeat once again if it wasn't for the purpose of this law for Serbian citizens to be damaged. We can't talk about situations right now what would happen if it were. No one can be damaged, and he hasn't used his right in some previous period to enroll. Why didn't these citizens sign up for the right to use on these parcels if they had every legal right to do so? We're going to wait, invite them for a few more years so they might change their minds and maybe enroll their rights. Well, I really don't think we're a serious country like this. If someone's right, if they don't use it, who's to blame? Simply, the roads must be built and such laws are just passed in order to implement this project as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56787	The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56788	Dear Vice President Arsic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, dear Minister, I am pleased to see you very often in this high house since 2012. It speaks of your dedicated work, both of you and your ministry, and not just this one, but other ministries where you were minister. You don't need to be discouraged by some of the incursions involved in your work. Let me say that I will support the government's position and that the Republic of Serbia realises the process of accelerated modernisation drawn up by the Government of the Republic of Serbia programme in which you, Madam Minister, were Minister in 2014, and continued by this government in which you are also one of the ministers. Dear People's MPs, may I remind you that this programme of the government, which was then made up by the current President of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Vukic, and then the Prime Minister, is actually a process of accelerated modernisation of Serbia without which we would really not have any success. He said then when the program was adopted, I quote, that for ten years we would talk about modernization, finished quote. The modernisation of Serbia is based on seven letters "I". I'll show it. The first letter “I” is ideas, second – innovation, third – institutions, fourth – investments, fifth – infrastructure, sixth – information technologies and seventh – integration. Without this comprehensive modernisation of the Republic of Serbia, we would not be coming to Serbia's accelerated modernisation today. Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there is no modernisation of the Republic of Serbia without the modernisation of roads and highways. Madam Minister, you can be happy that you were Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia who opened and built 138km of highways in just three years, restored 480km of state roads, built 360 local roads, rehabilitated 311 bridges. When you add up open and built highways, renovated and built state roads and local roads, that's exactly 970 kilometers of highways. Indeed, it is the success of the government, it is the success of the engine, the modernisation of the Republic of Serbia, the respected President of the Republic, Mr Vukic, and you too, Madam Minister, as Minister of Government. I am sorry that today there are no members of the Alliance for Serbia, opposition MPs, they are wandering the streets of the Republic of Serbia as traveling circuses, asking them if what we say or not is true, they are not, which they cannot face the truths that are planned and programmed in 2014. That's why they're going. Today we have heard from a part of the People's Messengers that there are no People's Messengers who are sorry to be built. There are gentlemen, I'll tell you. You're not on my right, but there are those that aren't here today, and I'll remind you. So they were against building highways. You remember the incident, gentlemen of the people's MPs, who worked on highways from the Alliance of Serbia. They were against the construction of Beograd on Water, were they, gentlemen, MPs? They were against the revitalisation of "The Iron" Smederevo. Even one former Prime Minister, known as "a farmer in an attempt" to TV N1 CIA, expressed his opinion that "The Iron" should be closed and workers sent home. Against the revitalisation of RTV Bor, against the construction and rehabilitation of Belgrade streets and the Square of the Republic, against the construction of factories, you remember that, and the employment of our workers, against the construction of an airport in the Kingdom, you heard these days, against the revitalisation of the airport, the construction of "Nikola Tesla", against work, order and democracy. When I say democracy, if it were up to democracy today, we'd really be in this high house. To me, as a folk MP and as a professor of the university, it would really be nice to have them here, to face opinions, suggestions, and also to criticise each other, and not to suggest some third, to walk the streets of some of our cities, but you have heard and gone. There are no more than 1,500 dinars who accept that they are going to demonstrate and something more of their organizers. Speaking of which, let me finish these quotes. Actor Nikola Kojo, who I will often quote in this high house, said on 4 February 2019, quote: "If the protests fail, I am leaving this country," the quote concluded. That same actor Kojo, the esteemed one, explains why the protests failed. So, he claims they've failed and we know it, I quote: "People are slowly realizing that the protest, from the beginning, from the end, was led by censors, with the help of various half-worlds, semi-innovators and works of students who trusted them," finished the quote. I ask the distinguished actor, who, as a serious man and a serious actor, to leave this country because he has promised, that the MPs would truly believe in him as a decent man. Dear People's MPs, building, I'll finish with another quote, highways and roads is a patriotic act. When someone says really one part and the MPs don't have a patriotic feeling, that they would not violate the Constitution and advocate the destruction of our country. I will quote Nenad Canka, called "Gicoe", in 24/06/2019, the ideaist once again says, quote: "Kosovo is not Serbia, but the area where some people who have a round state continent live," finished the quote. The same Nenad Canak, in a people called "gicoje", said then as a presidential candidate, "I am ready to recognise Kosovo's independence," a quote concluded. I am sorry that there are no political opponents from the DOS, to quote them, from Tadic, 16 of them, quotes that have advocated the destruction of our country. They don't have the finger of the cheek to come to this tall home. They're ashamed of themselves and mirrored themselves in the morning when they get up and look in the mirror and see their picture. Thank you very much, gentlemen of the People's Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56789	Thank you. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Perry, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56790	Dear colleagues, I am fully aware and see a vivid picture of a large number of citizens of the Kings, Kragujevac, Kruševac and other places who look forward to the adoption of this law and mass, they sit on the terrace, but there are a number of people, a colleague, and this was not if it were, but already is. What will happen to those who have rebuked buildings that are not built in accordance with the law? This wasn't if it was, it already exists. Whether it's all a failure of those citizens who have done it or have systemic errors, that's another question. Probably the other ones, too. Now Article 8 speaks – established public interest. Public interest is more important than any individual, but an individual must not be damaged in any case. Already, as said, 300 million to be spent in a suspicious way should be examined for the role of William Walker with this company, Bechtel. The man who designed Racak and Serbia experienced the consequences they experienced, what is his role in this company? We now need to solve a concrete example, namely a particular problem of a particular number of citizens who have built buildings on building land, which will be expunged due to the construction of this highway. In Article 10. The bill says the compensation of the estimated building value will be implemented. We said it should be market values. I wouldn't say that this is purely technical, but essential, someone invested that money and now it needs to be compensated. In response to which the amendment is not accepted, it is said - the amendment is not accepted for reasons that it is legally-technically incorrect. In addition, the Court’s view is that in situations where buildings are illegally built, construction rather than market value is determined. Madam Minister, for you a specific question, what is the value of Bratoljub, building or market? For two years and more, how is he officially and openly, and not using his purpose, and the question is when will he be put into use? Let us not now be convinced that this is not necessary, that the citizens of Love, Bratunca and places closer to that bridge, but probably all of Serbia, Republika Srpska, want that bridge to be used, to be put into operation as soon as possible. The same applies to buildings built in part of the territory, i.e. on land to be exploited. What kind of situation is expected, which is why this amendment is not accepted, that citizens who have worked would be compensated or you expect Serbian citizens to settle all their obligations properly, it is not even controversial, and those when it comes to half, can one tenth be given to them, however, what will of the government at that time? We are against it, and we are not against the public interest, we are not against the construction of roads, against the opening of new jobs, Mr Atlagic, I have said that, I guess, I said, every normal man, and God, there are even abnormal ones, we are not talking about, their interest and goal is probably not that Serbia is building, developing, that people are getting hired, but that Serbia is banging, that it is destroying, that it is destroying, that we are not talking about today. They are the constant problem of this society. Why is that? It'll be solved in some future period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56791	The word is from colleague Katarina Rakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56792	Thank you. Here, I think that by accepting this amendment, the state would simply protect and put into an equal position who worked, built and built under the law and someone who didn't do it. Now, I agree with my colleague who used to say there were systemic errors. There are almost 20 years. However, this government has struggled with it, and many times it has indeed succeeded in bringing many of those who built and built irregularly and without permission into order. You know yourself that prices are never the same and when you build without permission and when you sell that property without permission, you know that its price can never be, you can never sell a building facility, a house, anything else without a building permit with a price if that same facility, or at the price, if that same facility had a building permit, or used permission. So by accepting this amendment, first of all, I think that the state should not put into the same basket those who did according to the law and those who did not, and in this way individuals are not going to be damaged, but will simply be rewarded, because for something you consciously built on one field which, first of all, is a blue area, you built it, that house could collapse, it was built simply on an unsecured terrain. So, in this way, not that they are not damaged, but I am free to say that they are somehow rewarded, because they will be assessed market value, or market value, these construction works, will practically not be damaged for anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56793	Right on line, MP Sreto Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56794	Well, part of you are right. We're in favour, we're in the SRS, we're in favour of all the laws being respected. We are opposed to many, for many, we suggest that amendments be made in this way, that they be changed, but when a congregation majority adopts a certain law that respects it. I have a simple question for you, if you answer it in a satisfactory way, then it makes sense for this controversy, if not, then it's pointless. How many objects have been legalized since 2012 and not here? We don't want to talk from 2000 till 2012, but from 2012, so here we are with today's day until 2019, until July 3rd. How many times has an amendment and addition of the Law on Legalization been made? What are the effects? How did the Ministry of Construction, headed by Mrs. Mihajlovic, fight against construction on the Kopalnik, on the Black Summit? Is that impossible for the state? Is this one individual who doesn't know the real owner, where some names are mentioned, the question is whether they are them or not, stronger than the state, than this country you're talking about is that all problems are almost solved or are all solved? If you have an answer to this question, then there's a sense of controversy, if you don't, then it's completely pointless. And now you're saying that the sole culprit of an investor building is on some building plot that doesn't have a building permit until today. I'm telling you a concrete example of where the investor is a state, where for every commendation, it's the idea to build a bridge on the Drina, a bridge called "Bratoljub", but there's no license. And do you know who ran this project, who's in charge of this project? Well, Mrs. Zorana Mihajlovic. So, what kind of message does it send to the citizens?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56795	Thank you. It's a replica in two minutes. The word has a minister, Mrs. Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56796	I'll try, really, not to answer all the lies and all the thinking, maybe just the way someone would like it or think it would be. But what is very important, the Bratoljub Bridge has all the permits, from building to using permission. The Bratoljub Bridge was built by the government of the Republic of Serbia. The Bratoljub Bridge is currently awaiting an agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina, therefore, with Serbia, and we hope that this agreement will come about, so that people can really use what makes the essence of all economic, human relations, and that is to connect people, including this bridge. As far as legalization is concerned, I suggest that perhaps the Committee of the Assembly, although every three months we give all the reports, we will refer it to the Committee again to discuss it. I'd love to talk about it, especially with the SRS and all that's been going on in some of the periods related to the assignment of the crying without any municipal infrastructure, so the payments for the small houses, so they turned out to be thousands, two thousand and several square meters, etc. They're not the only ones, of course, there were many others. Therefore, if someone has made an effort to establish a certain system in the area of object law, it must be the government of the Republic of Serbia from 2014 to today. It's not simple, there's a lot of these objects. So my proposal is that today, if possible, we continue to talk about this important infrastructure project. The ministry is offering, I'm offering to come to the board and have a debate just and exclusively on the legislation. We'll be happy to discuss it and provide all the information we have, what we're working on and what we've done. (President: Bringing the end. ) As for the amendments to the Law of Law, I think the laws are alive and that when we see that we need to fix something, we really need to do it. We're now... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56797	Thank you. Right on the line, my colleague, Radeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56798	The minister cannot offer anything to the National Assembly, but the minister must respond to what the MPs are asking her to do. The minister can't say when she's in the mood and at what level she's answering, to discuss some bill, and she won't answer the question of the MP here and now, and that's what was asked of her. As for construction at a time when the SRS was the government in the municipality of Zemun, the proudest of that part, yes, yes, only you, the proudest, Mrs Mihajlović, you and then your URS, and then yours with whom you were at that time, against these solutions led the proceedings until then to the Constitutional Court. Both the Constitutional Court and all the findings had previously said that everything was absolutely in line with the legislation and decisions that regulated the status and construction of buildings and the assignment of land on the territory of the city of Belgrade. When you want to talk about it, you have to know something, you have to read something. So, we are proud of the fact that we formed Busia, the village of Grmovac, the settlement of Blue Horizons, the part of Ugrinovac, the part of Batajnica, that the people who were exiled, escaped, who escaped from the Ustasha knife, that they found refuge in the municipality of Zemun, that the SRS and Vojislav Seselj, as then the president of the Zemun municipality, had found a legal solution that under extremely favourable conditions, without any dinar earning those people, were assigned to these plots, that they were settlements, Mrs. Mihajlović... (President: Bringing the end. )......................................................................................................... With 12-foot-wide streets... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56799	Thank you. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? The MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 11th amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Nikolic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56800	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are also in the context of a principle debate, and today we pointed out that with the application of this law there will be a lot of problems. With our serious amendments, we tried to fix the proposal in this way to the fullest extent possible. We agree and feel that we need the highway anyway. We have nothing against it. You are under Chapter 4, which is the choice of a strategic partner, said that when selecting a strategic partner and concluding a project and building contract of the Moravia Corridor, as well as selecting professional supervision of the performance of works, no rules governing public procurement are applied. That was our serious grudge. We think jobs without public procurement can't be done. It is unacceptable, especially when it comes to Bechtel, about a company that has numerous affairs, which we have warned you about and what we are constantly pointing out, that it is a company that operates on the principle of bribery and bribery of management in certain countries. The amendment we have submitted concerns Article 11(4), where we are completely changing this position and the new proposed amendment text reads: "The appeal is submitted to the Ministry of Finance Affairs within three months." We've only given our intervention the right to file a complaint. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56801	Thank you. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56802	Article 11 speaks when the request for expropriation has already arrived and how the authority responsible for carrying out expropriation operations will continue to act and in paragraph 6 is said to - the owner of the immovableity is required to declare the proposal for expropriation no later than five days from the date of receipt of the proposal. We have accepted that this deadline be so short, a five-day deadline, that the procedure relating to the construction of such an important project would continue as soon as possible, of course, to provide for preconditions, with the possibility that the owner of that land has the possibility, on our proposal, to plead on the record with the competent authority or to deliver a certified statement, also to the authority responsible for the implementation of the expropriation, which we consider to be more efficient, faster for the process, and therefore also for the owner of the land which is expropriated. It's a simpler way and way. Wait a minute, Madam Minister, this is a good opportunity, when you're here, to remind us a little more of the Bratoljub Bridge. No one claimed that the job, and I said that a year ago, a job that was up to the Republic of Serbia, or the state of Serbia, was fully completed in the construction sense, and in terms of the security of all documents, but at that time you had to, not wait for the answer now, or the decision being made by the Council of Ministers of BiH, but probably those two, or the participation of two, were to be done simultaneously and parallelly, and not wait for the bridge to be completed, to surrender to use, to surrender to maintenance, and then we expect to depend on the mercy or mercy of the Council of Ministers of the Federation of BiH. Is it possible that one country has such an irresponsible approach to such an important object?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56803	Here you go, colleague Rakic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56804	Thank you. I would just instruct my colleagues who submit amendments to count on someone reading these amendments that they submit and listening to what they're talking about. Only now will I read what is proposed in the text itself – the owner of the immovable property is obliged to declare the request for expropriation no later than five days from the date of receipt of the request for expropriation by written means or on the minutes of the competent authority. The previous speaker suggested that instead of "written by means", it be done with a certified statement, and he said earlier that he wanted to make it easier for citizens to make it easier for them to deliver a statement in such a way. The squirrel Radeta throws it away. ) I would just remind myself that writing is something that is neither paid nor certified, and the certified statement means that you have to go either to the competent authority or to the notary to verify, to pay for what it costs, and then to take it to the competent authority. The squirrel Radeta throws it away. ) Dear Chairman, I must tell you that I listen carefully to all my colleagues and have never thrown one today. I have to admit that I find them extremely interesting when they're getting this kind of stuff, but first of all, it's not college, it's not fair, and you're breaking the Rules of Procedure because you don't take care of the order in the O.R. This isn't fair, since I haven't given a word to anyone, but it's culture. I'd like to go back to the amendment. Once again, I'm telling you that we read your amendments, and on the other hand we listen to what you're saying, so just make sure that when you say that your solution is faster, and what's proposed by law is really faster and cheaper than what you suggested by the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56805	She is a colleague of Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56806	Thank you, Your Honor. The honourable minister, of course, should not be accepted for the reason that it is in the focus of this government, because it is in the focus of SNS policy, because in the focus of Alexander Vukic's policy it is an interest of citizens, an ordinary citizen of the Republic of Serbia and a better quality of life for every citizen of the Republic of Serbia. Point 11 of Article 6 is fully in line with the General Administrative Procedure Act, where the Unit Authority of Local Self-Government, which deals with property-legislative relations and which is involved in this procedure depending on the territory on which the parcel is located, means, in that procedure, the General Administrative Procedure Act and Article 6 is absolutely in accordance with that law. What I'm saying is that this law determines the public interest in the expropriation of land that will be implemented in order to build a highway on the route of Pojate-Preljina. I must point out that this highway is vital for citizens and citizens of this part of the Republic of Serbia because no one has ever taken care of the road infrastructure of this part of the Republic of Serbia. Road infrastructure pulls investment, pulls new factories, pulls more employment, pulls a higher standard of living and pulls the better quality of life for citizens. This is the previous issue that needs to be resolved in order to enter into realisation in a quick and efficient way, i.e. the construction of highways that will be the breadth of the housewives for this part of central Serbia, for its citizens and for its connection with Corridor 11 and Corridor 10. What I must commend is certainly the opening of the third civil airport in the Republic of Serbia on the big holiday, on Vidovdan, June 28th. It is the airport Morava in Brodjevci and this airport is certainly a significant infrastructure project... The squirrel Radeta throws it away. )......................................................................................................... which will contribute to improving the investment environment and attracting foreign investment in this part of Serbia, which will contribute to the growth of the overall economic development of the Republic of Serbia. The squirrel Radeta throws it away. ) What I also want to praise is the construction of a section of the road connecting Novi Pazar and Tutin...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56807	My colleague Radeta, I'm sorry, my colleague Milanka, I can't hear my colleague Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić from you two, how much you throw away. The squirrel Radeta throws it away. I don't even need to hear it? You have nothing to hear. And I don't have anything to hear? All right, all right, we'll see. Keep going, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56808	What I also want to point out, and as far as this one...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56809	I give you a warning, colleague Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56810	... The government and how it takes care of Serbian citizens, no matter where they live, is building the Novi Pazar-Tutin road. About this road that has been completely exhausted, which looks like a rural road no one has ever taken care of before, and that is certainly commendable. Also in this part of Serbia is rehabilitation, i.e. reconstruction of the road leading from Sjenica to Prijepolje, i.e. Prijepolje-Sjenica, which is also significant for the citizens of the southwestern and western parts of Serbia. This is an indication that the government of the Republic of Serbia and the competent ministry are taking care of each citizen whether he lives in Belgrade, Subotica, Prepolje, Priboj, Kralje, Čačka, Trstenik, Vranjska Banja. One more thing I must point out, when it comes to the objections to the strategic partner, I must point out that only with this bill, Article 17 states that the Government will then make the choice of a strategic partner for everything that is being done and built, especially this highway that will enable the protection of a large number of citizens of this area, who have suffered major floods of damage for decades and years. All praises, for the construction of this highway will also be done to determine the coast of West Morava, that flood damage will never be repeated to citizens living along the West Morava River. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56811	The word is made by MP Branimir Rancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56812	I thank the chairman. Honorable Minister, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will speak, in real speaking the language of digits, i.e. figures. The fact that in 2019, the Republic of Serbia will approve project and programming loans to an amount of 834,411,485,000 dinars, with the European Investment Bank for additional financing for the project Corridor 10, E75 and E80, amounting to 12,343,20.000 dinars and other, with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the Niš-Pločnik, Merdare I stage, which is Nis-Pločnik, amounting to 9.504,000. As for the planned capital expenditures of the current and next two budget years, it is the construction of the E80 highway, the Prosek-Red River share, Red River-Ciflik, Chiflik-Pirot. I hope this part of the highway is open in a few months. Why am I saying this? No good highways, no investment. Just to remind you that the British magazine Financial Times last year included Nis among ten European cities of the future. Why? Because Nis became a highway hub. In the category of cities that have the best promotion of the strategy for attracting foreign direct investment at the ceremony organised by the Energy Junior Foundation, with the support of this European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which I mentioned, Nis also found himself in competition from 10 Central and Eastern European cities. In addition to Nis, Hungary's Debrecin, Romania's Galat, Lithuania's Vindus, Poland's Krakov, Poznanj, Vrocnov and Lođ are in the same category. So, without good highways, there is no development in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56813	The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56814	It is very interesting to listen to MPs who only appear to say something, and indeed when I said that there is nothing to hear and there is nothing to hear, I repeat and publicly. That's why I got a warning, let me, it can't keep me quiet and Arsic knows how much notice I've been paying in my life, but there's never been any fine that could distract me from doing what I want to do. This is about you, about your relationship with Parliament, about your loss of nerve, about your nervousness, and how you wouldn't be nervous, what's happening to you, what's going on, what's going on... (President: Is this an amendment or how? ) On the amendment, of course.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56815	My colleague Radeta, the amendment cannot possibly be a political party, and I can see this as a violation of the Rules of Procedure. I'm talking about the amendment. You're talking about how you got a warning. You have received a warning because you do not respect your fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament. No one has any intention of keeping you quiet, you simply don't respect any of your speaking colleagues, you're distracting him. Those who are more experienced, which you cannot interfere with, we others don't hear. It's your right to listen to someone or not. In this room, we should all talk to each other if we want to participate in the work of the National Assembly. It's our right of every MP. Also, I don't think this is the Academy of Science, so we're just going to have academic discussions. This is Parliament and Parliament, but at least a minimum of respect... (Miss Radeta: Rules of Procedure. At least a minimum of respect for your colleagues must have... (Miss Radeta: Rules of Procedure. ) Whether someone is blue, black, tall, short, thin, or otherwise, it is his business. How he's going to adjust his discussion on the agenda, and that's his business, and he never objected to you... (Miss Radeta: Rules of Procedure. I interrupted your discussion, I'll give you my word... (Revelation of Radeta: No, no, Rules of Procedure.) ) In order not to go beyond that measure when I have to act as chairman and use the instruments provided for by the Rules of Procedure... (The Faith of Radeta: "Come on, give me a word of the Rules of Procedure, and you will give me lectures." Here you go. I give you a second warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56816	Here, after the second warning, Mr. Arsic, you hurt Article 27 earlier when you took a word from that place, maybe nervous that you couldn't come out and light a cigarette, and then you have to use it to talk from there, you just discussed your colleague Arsic, and you didn't just interrupt me in the amendment debate. This is inadmissible according to our Rules of Procedure. You have the right to interrupt the MP when you estimate that he should be interrupted, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, but to hold a lecture from there, to speak from there, I am sorry that you have MPs who cannot concentrate on what they would like to say, which they do not read well what they are written. That's your problem. And you, to make us listen carefully, we won't. Let's hear every word you say, I guess we've shown it a million and 700 times. And when we talk, and when we throw and when we talk to each other, we hear perfectly everything you of your congregation majority say and as you see and know, we react to it. And you, take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure, and don't ever think about discussing it with me again. You have no right to do that. To have someone sit down to replace you, to have you answer the word, you have the right, and from the seat of the chairman you cannot. You're not my mom or dad or the tutor to tell me from there how I'm gonna behave, what can I say, what can I not say? I'm sorry your MPs showed today that they have no idea about expropriation, and they're trying to be smart about it...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56817	I'd like to thank my colleague, Radet. It's up to two minutes. Now you'll get an answer about advertising to article 27. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which says that the president, or chairman of the National Assembly, is concerned about the application of this Rules of Procedure. In article 106, it says - no one can interrupt the speaker, nor can warn him, except for the president of the National Assembly in the cases provided for in this Rules of Procedure. You interrupted colleague Milanko Jevtović Vukojičić and interrupted her in further work... Did she say I disturbed her? That's not true. ) During the speech of MPs or other participants in the search, it is not allowed to throw away, or interfere with speakers in any other way, as well as any other procedure that threatens freedom of speech. So you threatened the freedom of speakers and colleagues Milanka Jevtović Vukojić and colleagues Rakic... (Miss Radeta: What? Threatening freedom of speech? A reminder is given to a people’s messenger who speaks before asking and receiving a word, and you have fulfilled that condition to receive a warning. Which, in addition to the president of the National Assembly's warning, speaks of a question that is not on the agenda, so I interrupted you so as not to give you a warning. If a speaker interrupts or throws, or interferes with the speaker, or otherwise endangers freedom of speech, that condition is fulfilled for another reminder. Who directly speaks to another MP, you are to me, no problem. If he's using swearing and insulting expressions, you said I had nothing to hear and that's bullshit. If it's facts, we talked about college, but not at this session, it doesn't matter. Where other proceedings violate the order of the sitting or act contrary to the provisions of this Rules of Procedure. So, cumulatively 70% of the terms are fulfilled to get a warning, and one is enough. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in voting day about the breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56818	I want to, of course. (Miss Radeta: Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56819	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56820	Now, I'm interviewing under article 107, Mr. Arsic, you severely injured the dignity of the National Assembly, because you said that someone here, you said me, but I don't think anyone here is doing it, endangers freedom of speech. You've shown that you don't know what freedom of speech is. Throw something to the MP, tell him he's talking nonsense, tell him he can't listen to what he's saying, everything I haven't said, but even if I did, it's not a threat to freedom of speech, Mr. Arsic, read a little something, don't embarrass yourself and embarrass yourself from that place. You insulted me, you insulted our parliamentary group, you insulted the National Assembly as an institution, you said, Mr Arsic, that the freedom of speech of the MPs is being threatened in the National Assembly. So do you realize what you have already sent to the public? Do you understand yourself? Mr. Arsic, you've got to keep your nerves down a little bit. That bad mood of yours, that you obviously have some problems, I don't get into what they are, but you can't express them by so rudely insulting the National Assembly. I didn't say that you insulted the National Assembly because you gave me a warning, that's your boss's business, so you do what you want, but you're gonna have to act like that all day long, and I'm afraid of these there. I've prepared it here and I'll use it, not this one, but there will be a chance, when I said that you stole our time on Friday and Thursday, yes, here's the proof here, we'll bring it all out nicely, we'll talk about everything, you obviously not the convention, what it's called, what you're with NGOs and what it's called, uh, Sam Fabrizio... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56821	Regarding the advertising of the Rules of Procedure's violation, he said in article 106. – during the speech of the MPs or other participants in the search, it is not allowed to throw, or interfere with the speakers in any other way, as well as any other procedure that endangers freedom of speech. I was just applying the Rules of Procedure. Nothing more. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in voting day about the breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56822	I said I wanted to, and then you don't have the right to explain anything... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56823	I thank you, the National Assembly will be declared. My colleague Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure, here you are.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56824	I'm advertising Article 27 and 32. You are probably the public, when he sees you sitting there under the authority of the National Assembly, in one part of the session chairing, you may later be replaced by a colleague Marinkovic, but this does not give you the right, Mr Arsic, from the seat of the chairman, as one of the vice presidents, which is also Radeta's colleague, to interpret you on an arbitrary basis, and because of the potential in this day of sympathy or antipathy, so do you. With no single word from counterpart Milanka Jevtovic Vukojicic, she did not react, nor did she ask for the presidency's assistance. She's always, we can admit that, prepared for sessions, professionally, reasoned as a member of the ruling coalition, and she spoke the way she thought, as you say everyone has a right, and at one point you say she has no right. You have your colleague here who says - you can't do that, it's not a topic, you're talking about the price of the corridor, and here it is – you need to change. Choose how you will today and which arches you will establish. She is a colleague of Milanka Vukojičić, the only thing that was wrong in her presentation is that she is from Priboj, and she advocates the second section and the leg of the highway that was lobbying Rasim Ljajic at... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56825	I thank you, this is no longer a breach of the Rules of Procedure. As for your injury to the Rules of Procedure, I believe that in this room each of us should hear what his fellow MP is saying. That if an MP tries to keep his exposure focused and doesn't allow him to be interrupted by someone throwing it away, doesn't mean the rest of us shouldn't hear it, and that's exactly what happened. I've repeatedly asked that, in fact, I asked my fellow MPs to respect each other. But if that is not possible, then I must apply a strict Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. My colleague Vukojičić, you asked for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56826	I thank you, Mr. Chairman, and, of course, thank my colleagues for describing my behavior as appropriate. My behaviour is part of my family education and my general culture, and I would like all the MPs in this House to have political culture and respect for everyone regardless of what political parties they come from. By the way, I have to say that by the place of my birth and by the place where I grew up and lived I belong to the Raška district, I come from Sirca, or from the King, and that I am interested in building and for this reason, not only as a folk MP, but for that reason, because I know that the citizens of the Kings, those who live along West Morava, are eager to build this highway and protect them from the further floods that West Morava has brought to them for decades. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56827	According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56828	It's a 100th question, and you're in constant violation of it, Mr. Arsic, and don't do it again. If in the course of advertising a member of the Parliament says that he wants the Assembly to declare itself, then you have nothing to explain, there is the end of your role. You're just saying, yes, you want the Parliament to plead. You have again taken to discuss what someone needs to hear, what someone should not hear, so all the people who follow the National Assembly know that the MPs of the SRS hear everything and that we react every time and when it seems like we don't listen to what you're saying, you see by our reaction that we hear and react. Just because you don't have a concentration, that's your problem and your thing. It's interesting that you didn't notice a moment ago when the MP told another MP that he didn't have a home education, so that's okay, is that what you can say? It's you who weighs who can tell whom what to say. It won't work, Mr. Arsic, believe me. You can do whatever you want, but you won't go as far as you want. You've been showing off your nervousness for a few days. It probably seems to me that somehow I'm connecting it to those columns of the government of Djukanovic, and it's kind of started ever since. You see it in your party, and here while you're sitting there, act like the chairman of the National Assembly. If you can't do it, say it. I can't do it. I can't go out above party, above hate. You show hatred for the SRS, for the MPs of the SRS. That's inadmissible, Mr. Arsic, for anyone here, let alone someone... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56829	Now, fellow Radeta, first of all, no one has told you any fellow MPs that someone is rude and that they have no home education. counterpart Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić said she was raised and that she is withdrawing her education from her family. The second thing, he's an advertised member of 100. The Rules of Procedure, President of the National Assembly, when chairing meetings of the National Assembly, if he wants to participate in the search, leaves the presidency to one of the vice-presidents of the National Assembly. Perhaps you were referring to Article 103 regarding the fact that if you are asking for the National Assembly to declare a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you should not be answered by the chairman. However, Article 5 of Paragraph 103 says – if it considers that the injury has not been done, the president, or the chairman, is obliged to give an explanation. So, let's get this straight. As for hate, I really don't hate anyone. I really don't hate anyone, not one living thing on this planet. Just because I don't love someone doesn't mean I hate someone. If anyone is nervous here, I pray that the MPs allow others, despite their anxiety, to participate in the discussion and in the work of the National Assembly, and not that there is a monopoly that if someone from another parliamentary group registers for the word that he is immediately disturbed and thrown to him, even the most ground floor insults. Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in the voting day? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56830	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, judging by the atmosphere today and the past days in the National Assembly, we can get the impression that we are attending a historic session where we are building a highway in Serbia for the first time, judging by the presentations of MPs from the ruling majority and Ms. Mihajlovic as building minister. We had a chance to hear that Serbian radicals, because they criticised the way this company, the American Bechtel, got a job doing so-called. Moravia corridor or Preljina-Pojate highway, without a tender, without any competition, where we don't know if anyone could have done it for less money, someone who might not be on this side of everything that Bechtel comes from and who might be able to hire some Serbian companies. No, we're bringing in a lex special to build only one company. I'll remind you that for 19 years we've been focused on the process of so-called. Eurointegration and, of course, in all segments there are some so-called Chapters which every country that is to join, which wants to join and conduct membership negotiations must open and meet all the requirements of them. Is after 19 years in accordance with the communal right to give me here when to make a decision, i.e. The need to build the Preljina-Pojate highway, is it in accordance with the communal right that we do not have competition and that we bring a Lex specialist on the construction of the highway? It's the first time yet. There are hardly any European standards. On the other hand, Mrs Mihajlovic says of all these remarks – it is clear that we are against the construction of highways. Because we are not for Bechtel and we are not for this non-transparent way of making a decision to hire this company. Why? Why Bechtel? Are they the only ones who can build this highway? Well, I can do some other ones. Are they the only ones who meet the conditions? They don't meet the only ones. Are they the best company, i.e. The best company? They're not even the best company. And now we don't even know if they're the cheapest, because Lex is the special. Absolutely against what the President of the Republic was saying two weeks ago at a session of this so-called. The National Convention. So he said no more actions will be conducted in a transparent manner, that we will respect parliamentary procedures and legal procedures, and now we have a Lex specialis. The key thing is that we can agree that there is a need to build the Moravia Corridor, but we are against non-transparent actions and company engagement, i.e. the company only because of the current minister's political preferences. We should probably get past that period, it was such a wilderness here in Serbia after October 5th, don't live any longer in it.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56831	Thank you, Comrade Seselj. The word is Katarina Rakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56832	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here, we haven't heard a single word about the amendment, I've listened, not a single word. Now I can't say that something bad was said at first, which I'll agree with. Today we have the honor, as we had the honor of the other day, this whole assembly of the Assembly, to participate in the construction of the Moravia Corridor, and I will indeed agree with my colleague who spoke before me. It is my personal honor to participate in the construction of one direction that will really be of great importance to Serbia and I will tell it that we do not really have this direction in Serbia. If he knows that there's another path similar to this that's going to be built, let him say that we know, because I don't really know. Also, all the time it's been said about "Bechtel". We haven't come to that member yet to speak in detail. They say it's a non-transparent way. I don't know how we're talking about something that hasn't happened yet. First of all, this law determines that the criteria will be prescribed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, it will not be some secret contract, we will all be able to see what it is, and even if Bechtel comes, and I sincerely hope that we will have the honour to come, certainly one big world-renowned and famous company in Serbia will bring a lot of good. It will bring new technologies, new knowledge and experiences that our workers will be able to take over. But I must remind you that their arrival is certainly conditional and we simply have to meet the standards for them to work in Serbia at all. These standards, I will remind you, since you have already talked about it, are primarily a stable financing, a stable budget, a stable budget provides a stable policy, we have a permanent political situation with Aleksanda Vukic in Serbia, and as the third basis for accepting "Bechtela" in general that working in Serbia are that before the beginning of the works there are all the necessary design and technical documentation. So you will agree that the arrival of Bechtela is not something that is just like that, we invited them, so come on. We will simply have the honor of having such a large world company as to be someone who will build roads in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56833	Thank you, colleague Rakic. Vladimir Orlic is entitled to a replica, so Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56834	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. What I was planning to say stops in two minutes anyway. As for the visual concern that has just been shown by the amendment's promoter for respect for European standards and standards, I must admit that she is quite likable. By the way, we've been talking about the subject these days. I must note that it is entirely on the line of that policy confirmed by other fellow Members of the parliamentary group, that their parliamentary group is still in favour of Serbia's membership in the EU today, and probably hence this obvious concern of respect for European standards, conditions related to chapters or processes in any way. I have to say, it's very nice. The truth is, as far as the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic and the National Convention are concerned, the issue of public procurement has also been really discussed. This time Alexander Vukic said – here, you from Europe, help us if you think we should do something a little better, how are we to be transparent when it comes to those top strategic projects, we will certainly listen if you have a good idea that we have not applied so far. They were satisfied with that answer, but I did not hear, nor believe that I would hear that any proposal had taken place in that direction, you know for what reason, which they also in their countries, when it comes to large projects, the biggest projects, the projects of strategic importance, act in the same way that Serbia is doing, in the same way. This does not conflict with their standards or their practices, with the practice of least. As far as practice is concerned in Serbia, we should all remind ourselves together that it is not the first time that a special law determines public interest, just when it comes to the most important projects, about projects of strategic importance. Did the parliamentary group to whom the amendment was proposed object or regretted when we also specifically established by law the existence of interest, for example, in the case of "Beograd on Water"? I don't think so. (President: Time.) Let me just finish my sentence, Mr. Chairman. On the contrary, I think they support the project. Did he object and worry about European standards when we established a special interest on the theme of the South Stream pipeline? I don't think so. On the contrary, I think he supports the project. Did they object when special laws regulated questions of enormous importance for "Smederevo Iron"? Again, not again, because they support such projects. So I think if they support this project, and they say they support it, then there's only good reason to support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56835	Thank you, Dr. Orlic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, who wants it? I want a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and Alexander Seselj is a replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56836	I don't know what else I'm supposed to want? Maybe coffee, like you here? What kind of question is that - anything else? I've reported to the Rules of Procedure, and I suggest you, on the basis of Article 27, take a little care of the status of MPs. You have no right to appoint First and Second Order MPs. If they've all been interrupted for two minutes and two seconds at the most, then that goes for your mentors. And don't play anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56837	Thank you, colleague Radeta. I just let my colleague finish the sentence. That's what I would do when it comes to every MP and from the Serbian Radical Party, of course. Do you want the National Assembly to plead? (Yes) (The Faith of Radeta: Why do you look at me so surprised? And I'm surprised all day. I'm surprised. I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. Alexander Seselj is out of the O.R. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. The 11th Amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The 12th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. On Article 12 of the amendment, MP Alexander Seselj submitted. The amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric to article 13. Here you go, colleague Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56838	The established public interest has already occurred in the field of expropriation, Article 13 paragraph 1 reads: "After finality, i.e. the legality of the expropriation solution, conditions for the launch of a procedure for carrying out a certain fee for exploited immovableity are obtained. The word "po" means when it's over. My colleague, I expect a reaction, I'd be delighted. We suggest "pre", not "po." Po's done, it's done. Have you heard of a Serbian saying - better to agree at the beginning, Marianne, a colleague, right, at the beginning of the field than at the end. And this is a way where surely those who own the land may be cut off. Isn't that what happened? We want to stop it. This clearly suggests that we want Serbian citizens not to be damaged. It's not this one, I'd say nervousness, at the chairman's for absolutely no reason. Every time Mrs. Zorana Mihajlovic is there, there are sparks. You're wondering why. Someone who's so successful, Mrs. Mihajlović, as you're saying, I don't know how you let the rehabilitation of the overpass at Ibarska Masteral, from here perhaps 20 km, whose length, I freely estimate, 50 meters, last almost two months? Did you visit, perhaps, those papers? A successful minister can't afford such a luxury. The month of June, then July, so probably if this rate is done in August, when the frequency on that traffic is slightly higher than usual, and you all know it's one of the busiest routes, that traffic accidents happen very often, and instead of doing it speedily, you do it slowly. When we had an intervention on Article 11 earlier and said to be certified, maybe someone wants to, we do not deny that oral statement to interested parties, but we leave the possibility of having a certified statement, maybe someone wants to get into that process and thus solve their problems. Secondly, there was talk here that MPs should advocate maybe only places where they came from. The state of Serbia is one electoral unit and we are all candidates for complete Serbia. And we in the SRS, of course, may want to develop more intimately where we come from, but we care about all of Serbia. In any part when something is built, we are satisfied and proud and do not divide by where we come from. I think Mrs. Zorana Mihajlovic will at least do what I was talking about, and there is a concrete example of every MP and every citizen who passes that part would want it to end as soon as possible. Do something and specifically, don't just explain here how we're against building a highway, because it's really pointless, it doesn't make any sense. Do what you really do. Put on a nice helmet, blue, yellow, whatever, go, look at that and solve that problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56839	Thank you, colleague Perich. The word is Katarina Rakic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56840	Thank you. In particular, 445km of roads in Serbia I consider it more than concrete. Here, and as you come to parliament, if you're going, say, through Prince Milos, it's impossible not to see all those sites, and for me it's more than concrete. This is where some people from Serbia work, using materials from Serbia, after which they will be equipped with furniture from Serbia, people are employed. I think it's really more than concrete. Now I don't know what else you want besides that and what way to show it to you? Here, at least in my presentation from the beginning of today's debate, I didn't say at any point, at least that's not how I understood it, you'll agree with me, that you're against building the Moravia Corridor. I didn't realize it that way, neither did I, and I listened very carefully, any of my colleagues said that you said that. I understand here that you are for the construction of the Moravia Corridor, but that you are not satisfied with the law that suggests determining public interest. I say again, given what you're saying, you haven't shown these amendments. In particular, as far as this amendment is concerned, you are even proposing something that is in line with the Expropriation Act, which is that one procedure is done before the finality of the solution, not the law that regulates it. We are making the law we are talking about today to speed up some procedures, but we must take care of other regulations in Serbia. So we're not passing this law to break other laws, but to speed up the procedure for expropriation, but we certainly have to respect the other laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56841	Thank you, colleague Rakic. Here you go, colleague Peric, you have the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56842	I'm not happy with the applause you got. Here, a member of the 17th draft law - in the selection of a strategic partner and the conclusion of a contract on the design and construction of the Moravia Corridor, as well as in the selection of expert supervision of the performance of works, are not subject to the rules governing the procurement procedure. I'm listening to your comment, here, now that there's a colleague, Arsic would see how we have a very correct relationship with you, I guess to learn what, I don't know what it is, but anyway. You see, are you aware of this provision of Article 17(7)? We put one law that is universal rule throughout the world, that is, one part of that Public Procurement Act we put out of force, so that something that is not transparent and something that is not even good for the state of Serbia, that it may be. The essence of this law is precisely in this provision. We can't and we're not ready to accept. If you say so before, before we make a deal and it becomes a provision of this law that is lex specialis. We don't break other laws then. On the surface, you've been looking at all this, you've been commenting on our amendments, but I don't want to deny it. Just keep it up. In this way, you will show how much you, with what attention you are following both this and what attention you are following the amendments of the SRS. When all this is over, you will see for yourself that you are not in a good way, nor have you supported this law, nor have you interpreted it, nor have you contributed to it as much as possible in practice as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56843	Thank you, colleague Perich. Right on the line, Katarina Rakic. Here you go, colleague Rakic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56844	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Maybe now I'm a little embarrassed that one of my colleagues is older than me. I need to explain what a Lex specialis is. So if we don't specify a specific difference in the Lex speciality compared to another law, that law that is in force will certainly apply. So, in the particular article 13 that we're talking about, not the 17th one we're just about to come to, we're not excluding the Expropriation Act at any moment, but we're talking about how we're going to start the settlement procedure. So you're asking for this amendment to change, to be before, and by the law that we haven't changed this lex specialis, so it stays the same, it's stated that it goes by getting a solution. It's just something that is the goal of this Lex special. In Article 17, something has been done which is the purpose of this law. It means to rule out the other laws and make this unique in some cases. I don't know why we're talking about something now that's just an alphabet for this kind of thing and why I now have the opportunity to explain, why someone's commenting on me now, whether I'm ready or not. You have your colleagues, so you prepare them. We prepare in the way we know it, we know it, we know it and we will, and I think we're doing really one good thing. But the simple thing I'm talking about right now is the alphabet lex specialis. Now, you can spin it one way or another, but the point is the one I'm talking about. In Article 13, which you want to change, there is no exclusion to the Expropriation Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56845	Thank you, colleague Rakic. Right on the line, Sreto Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56846	To me at all, in the SRS, it was never a problem for us to learn from both the younger and the older. The best of the best, I guess, learn. That's not controversial. The amendment, if accepted, becomes an integral part. It's not something that's separate, which has nothing to do with the basic bill. The way you explain the amendment, I'm not going to comment on it anymore, but it should still mean something. It's possible and we want things to be resolved in advance and they know each other, because the rights acquired, the rights of the owner of the immovable property. It's not even that little before the amendment to Article 11, where we talked about buildings that were built on construction land, and they weren't built in accordance with the law, which means they don't have a building permit, but here where there's property rights and where someone in public interest wants to limit that right of property. How does he limit it? It restricts it by declaring public interest and the way it is taken from its property, or property, and this is possible by the Expropriation Act. We are just asking, insisting that the process of the agreement, the value of the freaks be established and agreed before and said in this article that it is a strictly formal act. There must be a written contract, and that gives him every possibility, if this amendment would have been accepted. You don't have to accept, you just need to know so much that there's no interference, legal, and anything else that can be accepted. It's just, do you want that way in solving this problem to accept it as possible or not, that's another question.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56847	Thank you, colleague Perich. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that today the National Assembly will be working after 18 hours, for the need for the National Assembly to review the reports on the agenda of this session as soon as possible. We're moving on with our work. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP Alexander Seselj. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Here you are, colleague Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56848	Yes, and on paragraph 3, where we have proposed that the agreement under this article be concluded by a settlement before the competent authorities of local self-government. Now you have to explain what that means. The whole concept of this law is that you actually want to expropriate real estate, get real estate, get into property, and then negotiate a fee, and when you take away real estate, then people have nothing to look for anymore, you're going to bring them to court. It's here to explain that you, which is why you don't accept the amendment, that you've predicted some different methods of determining compensation and agreeing on an expunged immovableity fee. That's not good. We'll do it again. I don't know how many times. No one in Serbia should suffer any damage due to the established general interest. You have made this law so that all or almost all of them, except those who are in agreement with you and who are in one way or another, will suffer harm through this amendment of the Assembly Committee, all other people, more or less, will suffer. If you bring someone to whom the immovableity is exposed before the final act, if you say – you accept the expropriation, and the fee will be determined later, you will be in possession of that contractor and then that owner of that immovable property can determine the compensation of the court. It can take years, it has to pay taxes, it has to be paid by witches, it has to be determined by fact in different ways and it simply won't be worth it to anyone. It'll be many years before people get paid. It's obviously your intention and that's why you were actually doing a Lex specialis, because of that and that other case where you predicted to drag Bechtel into a small door, to steal 300m euros from the budget, and you did that job. And then you'll brag about how you work, how much you work, etc. If you were serious, and you were in the government and the majority of the assembly, then you would really seriously consider these amendments, and you wouldn't be making a story that has nothing to do with reality, or the Expropriation Act, or the Lex specialization of this and the Lex specialization at all, nor would it occur to you that you're giving a lecture here to someone who knows a lot better than you do, but it's not your intention to do this job cleanly, you didn't just start it, you're not going to finish it clean or clean. Now somebody's gonna call back and say we're against building Corridors, highways, roads, etc. No, we're not. Citizens need to know, we're not against, we want to build, we support everything that's been built, but we want it to be done honestly, we want no one to steal the budget, we want citizens and businessmen not to steal, this job to be done, really to one general satisfaction. With this bill of law and what you're about to adopt as a law, it certainly won't be. You, then you try, I mean the congregation majority, through your discussions, and a little while before you heard that we're the same as the ones who don't sit here because they're against construction, so we're against construction, etc. There won't be gentlemen, you and they are the same. You are here trying to say that we are against what is prosperous in the government of the Republic of Serbia, and those in the parks are trying to say that we are sitting here because we support you and we are the same as you. Neither one, nor the other, is true. We differ from each other. You're the same. You're the same for a lot of things. You're the same for running internal and external policies. You are the same because they have concluded 14 individual agreements regarding Kosovo and Metohija, and you have united them in a Brussels agreement. You are the same because you insist on the way to the EU, and yesterday you are told there will be no EU enlargement, you intend to do more. You are just like them because they have brought the perpetrators, and you have brought your people into the empty places. You're just like them because they brought in the notaries, and you brought your people to the empty places. You're just like them because you accept you're still giving foreign subsidies without any control and without any criteria. You're the same as they are in general running your policy, I repeat, both internal and external. Don't involve us Serbian radicals in this. We are absolutely different from each other. You may be the best, both of us, we may be the worst, but we're different from each other. We do not support you, nor do We support them. We're sitting here, doing the work of a MP. We've been here three and a half years trying to explain to you what parliamentary democracy is and how it should be done in the National Assembly. You didn't accept it until Fabrizio arrived, so he prepared for you that national convention, where you gathered some NGOs, and then confessed to them and explained how you work and why you work. I've said that many times, which is actually a national disgrace. We are the ones who said that there are ministers in the government of the Republic of Serbia who do not work in the interests of the state of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We also named Zorana Mihajlović and Rasim Ljajic and Lončar and Vanj Udovic and all the ministers we needed and who we called for a reason. What's going on now? Do you have an answer to the question, what are you throwing at, whom exactly did Vukic mean when he said that there are ministers in the government who do not work in the interests of the Republic of Serbia? Come on now, heroes. Tell me now, and show me what the Ministers are thinking of. You are wise these days to keep your mouth shut, and those who do not have so much wisdom and political maturity, they appear here, commenting on what comes to mind, and the wise are silent, waiting to see whom Vukic will point his finger, and whether he will go in exactly the order that we of the SRS have shown. You take care of it, gentlemen. I beg you once again, don't mix us with those of the park, and don't let them interfere with us.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56849	Thank you, colleague Radeta. Right on the replica of Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56850	On who's the same and by what. It's the same ones who in this room, just like those in the tent, out of the woods, out of the O.R., say that about 300 or how many millions, imagine, we want to steal. That's why, say, they don't know each other at all. What else? I'm looking at the answer to the amendment, and it's quite right, the Ministry. So, the bill, as delivered to the National Assembly, offers citizens more. More options are offered than proposed by the amendment. Then when I hear that someone is now protecting the citizens with what they are proposing, I can only conclude that they do not know their amendment, and in that they are the same with those who are in that tent or tent no more. I think the tents are gone. They're somewhere in Serbia now. I don't know where they took them. And they also don't know what they're suggesting. Today they held a press conference here in the central hall. I think that Jeremic's MP came to say that he has submitted the amendment, that he knows that the evil majority in parliament will not adopt it, but, behold, it could save this law. He doesn't know what's going on with his amendment, just as it seems some in this room don't know. That amendment was later withdrawn, but it seems he wasn't informed about it. They also submitted a request to him and these what makes him a parliamentary group to withdraw the amendment, but not knowing his own amendments seems to be another similarity. What else are the same critics of absolutely everything they can and can't think of, Alexander Vukic and the SNS? They're the same in that they obviously realize that they'll never be able to compete with that kind of results that we achieve. Whether it's said the same in envy, I don't know, but they've concluded themselves that in many things they're absolutely the same. Among other things, they joined up in Old Town to show how complicated they can be because they understand each other well, because they seem to be from each other's corners, the other's are absolutely the same. I think this is a good answer to the question of who's the same here and for what. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56851	Right on the replica of the Witch of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56852	Whether it's worth explaining, but, first of all, it's worth it for the public. Is there a better and fairer way to determine compensation for exploited immovableities than what we have suggested? We have said that the agreement is concluded by settlement before the competent authorities of local self-government. The local self-government body, otherwise, is conducting an expropriation procedure and the local self-government body is talking, has a real estate owner and investor representative in front of it. So this guy knows how much money he's got, this guy knows what his real estate is worth. At the scene of a debate, this one says - I accept the expropriation, I waive the right to appeal, this one too - I deny the right to appeal because we agreed and a minute afterwards concluded the settlement that this immobility should be spread at that price and at that price. What other ways can they be fairer than this? What do you want to tell the people now? Do we have something bad to think about this way? People know what expropriation is. They know it means taking away something that's theirs and people want exactly what we say. Here, we give it because it's a general interest, but we're asking the state to pay us for that and that amount and the state accepts it and it's called alignment and it's the will of both sides. There is no better way or court decision, nor do I know whose other decision there is, another fairer, better way than what we offer. What you're trying to say here is that someone doesn't know their amendments, I'll continue after two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56853	Thank you, colleague Radeta, for your understanding. National MP George Komlenski, by amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56854	Thank you, Chairman. With all the respect to the argument being made, I think what is proposed in Article 13(3) is that it is far more precise, more comprehensive and favourable for the citizens of Serbia, i.e. those who are exposed to immobility. In fact, there is no fundamental difference between the terms of the agreement and the alignment, but in the legal jargon, to clarify, the alignment implies the existence of some dispute of apriors. Starting with the fact that there is a dispute between the two sides, and if it were not known, it would really question all other procedures and procedures. There may not be any misunderstanding and disagreement between the users of the expropriation and the one whose immobility is released, therefore there is no reason to advance such a claim that there must be a mandatory disputed relationship. I truly agree that someone must establish the criteria and criteria on which this agreement can also be achieved. Why? Because it must not be allowed for any of those whose immobilities are being expropriated to be damaged by the fact that any body that conducts the procedure could offer him a lower price, and that he accepts it, because it simply would not be correct in relation to all those other expropriations users, but it must also not be allowed to offer anyone privilegedly anything more. In the view of the following Article 13, it is clearly stated that the level and assessment of that value is carried out by the authority responsible for determining the tax on the transfer of absolute rights. Was there a possibility of another solution? There was, but from experience and practice, and there are a lot of colleagues here, I would personally sell my house in the Stublins today half the price for what the Department of Income in Obrenovac as its market value, without thinking, and that would be the best way to go. I'm not saying it's like that in all municipalities, but there's a simple criterion and a criterion. The party to the procedure, the one to whom something is excluded, is absolutely protected in several ways. So, first of all, it cannot be offered less than what is the appropriate estimate that is determined according to the intended standard and criteria, if the parties agree, and based on the expropriation carried out on the territory of Obrenovac in 95% of the cases, there was no misunderstanding in relation to the offered parameters and criteria. Then, there is another instance where the party is also protected that it cannot be damaged, where instead of the Administration of Revenue, the assessment of the market value of immovable property or the building value of immovableity, if it is objects that are not legal or not legally built, will go through skills and skills, and of course, it is known who is carrying the costs of the procedure in that entire position. If you're justly asking for more, of course whoever didn't offer you enough will eventually have to pay those costs. Therefore, to set an agreement or alignment as a previous issue ahead of the possibility of the process of expropriation and construction being continued is not meaningful, leaves a certain space for abuse by those whose immobility should be excluded. I think there's a little bit of a catch in all these discussions that we're having right now about all of this. I think that with this drug specialise, as I have spoken in principle, and now in this Article 13, what is most important is the state interests but also before the state interests, the interests of those whose immobilities are exempt and paid, are absolutely protected in the best possible way, as can be foreseen by law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56855	Thank you, colleague Komlenski. By amendment, my colleague, Radeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56856	Of course, you haven't convinced us, you can't convince us, what your colleague was saying would make sense if there wasn't the possibility of a settlement. How is it that someone to whom they expunge immobility, how will he seek an enormously high fee for his immovableity when the person representing the competent authority who pays him sits next to him? The alignment doesn't just mean - I own the house in the Stublins, not you, and I sell my house, I give it to expropriate for so much and so much money, this one signs it. It's not a alignment. The alignment is when both sides agree on some amount, and it is certainly in the best interest of one whose immobility is being blown up, and in the best interest of all, to God, the authority that wants this job to be done, because it will contribute to a faster completion of the job, because it is one of the law's intensities for this job to be completed as soon as possible. But we repeat, because a shorter deadline is possible, it cannot and must not be at the expense of any physical or legal person whose immovableity will be exploited. We're not giving it up. We'll have a discussion about that. God forbid I'm right, but we will be. You will see and write and newspapers about it and there will be delays and it will not be possible to enter a certain plot, etc. There's gonna be a lot of problems because you're not ready to finish this job legally and justly. You can't separate here legally and justly when you're taking someone's property. You can't, you can't. The property is sacred. It's enough that someone will accept that the land should be expunged, because general interests will be accepted. We keep saying that this general interest must be accepted. Then we hear here that we don't know, we don't understand our amendments, etc. That's really offensive. Now I will look back on this kind of debate by the majority MPs and we will no longer deal with it that way. You say whatever you want, you talk your mantra, it's getting tired of both God and the people, but we're talking very specifically here, but we don't have arguments on the other hand. The minister, of course, is silent because he does not want to talk to the SRS lawmakers, because it is insulting the truth that Bechtel took 300m euros from the budget, i.e. the Bechtel budget. It's a public secret. If it offends her, it's really her problem, but we're here to remind both the public and the congregation majority of what's going on. We are here to protect the budget, to protect every kind of interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and also to protect the interest relating to the payment of taxes, contributions and other profits paid to the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Why did someone just show up here, I hear it from a colleague who submitted the amendment and that someone is not an MP at all? Why did such chaos occur in the National Assembly in the first place? Because they learned from you and you're the same. You were created in the theft of the SRS mandate. What is now surprising is that those who do not have a mandate are taking place and going from one MP group to another, who, moreover, goes to Zivkovic, Vuk Jeremic has more money to go to Vuk Jeremic, Gilas gives more, goes to Gilas, and is made a market of the National Assembly. Is there anyone in the National Assembly today who can know exactly how many MPs we have and how many free deputies we have? It is impossible because it is changing on a daily basis and it is something that really is a problem, but for that problem too is the congregation’s majority. Who allowed parties who had not crossed the census to enter the National Assembly? She allowed the congregation majority because they listened to Scott, and Scott is the same for you. So don't involve us in anything we don't belong in. We do the work of MPs here, we explain the amendments. If you have arguments against what we suggest, let's talk. A colleague of Komlenski has made some arguments, which in his opinion are better than what we propose, and we argue that the arguments based on which people who expunge immobilities will go better, where there will be fewer headaches both to the state and to those owners of these immovableities. He didn't convince us, neither did we, but it's a parliamentary debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56857	Thank you, colleague Radeta. That's why my colleague Komlensky wants to replicate. Here you go, straight to the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56858	Thank you. I think my colleague Radeta understood me very well, but I'm afraid the way she interpreted something was not misunderstood. I don't sell the house in the Stublins where I live, and I wouldn't do it, it's not on the corridor of the road, it's not on the highway, it's not on Moravsky. It was not found, fortunately, on the highway corridor that ends soon and the shares that will be released from Obrenovac to Preljina. My comment on the Administration of Revenue was just such that I said that I had almost no doubt that the estimates of the Administration of Revenue, because it is responsible for assessing the value of the basis for the calculation of absolute rights, would be far more favourable for the users of expropriation. As far as this is concerned, I'm really saying I didn't have any personal experience, except professionally when it comes to expropriation fees at the end of the Corridor. I had no personal experience, although I knew much earlier where and which route Corridor would pass by, but unlike some colleagues, MPs, who today are not in their benches, who are holding lectures at press conferences, and they bought huge land on the Moravia Corridor route, so they seem very nervous, because as far as I can tell, some changes in the course of this Corridor do not exactly contribute to them and will not be able to conclude any alignments or agreements. About a lot of land will be left for them, so they'll really have to deal with agriculture, even though it wasn't their intention, it's an additional pleasure that I couldn't really share with you today. The fact that someone once was the president of the Triestenik municipality, and then he thought there wouldn't be any change in the route on which the highway was going, seems to have been a terrible fraud, and I have to admit that it's a very great pleasure for me to see his delusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56859	Thank you, colleague Komlenski. Marijan Risticevic has been reported. You're the one who picked up the amendment now because you're a little late? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56860	I'm not late, you've seen it later. So, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, just to add to the discussion of Comrade Komlenski, that Mr. Aleksic did not just buy land on a possible route, but to sell it more expensively, he planted the seedlings there so that it would be appreciated as an orchard to achieve a multiple price. So, I share that pleasure, because this time he's out of money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56861	Thank you, colleague Risticevic. National MP Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 14 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds is on Article 16 of the amendment. At the meeting of the Committee on Finance, a representative of the proposer, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds, adopted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 17 of the amendment was submitted by MP Slavica Zivkovic. Does anyone want a word? Jelena Žarić Kovacevic, are you answering the amendment to Slavica Zivkovic? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56862	Thank you, Chairman. Just for a little while. I want to point to some things. I have applied for the amendment to Article 17 where the proposal is to add new positions 6 and 7. I'm not going to read those attitudes now, I just wanted to contribute to the discussion and give my opinion. So, really get in Article 2. The bill stipulates that when the construction of the Moravski Corridor is realised, domestic materials and equipment and domestic contractors will be used in relation to which the contract on design and performance of works will be set. Therefore, the representation ratio will be subsequently established by a contract between the Contracting Parties in relation to this bill of law that we are talking about. So, not only the citizens and companies on the move on which the Moravski Corridor is being built, but also the domestic companies that will be the contractors in the realization of this project will have a benefit. It is very important, and I wanted to point out, it is very important that domestic materials and equipment are used, because it is an additional incentive for our economy. That's one thing. The second thing concerns the proposal of this second position, i.e. the 7th position in this Article of the bill. Of course, domestic performers will have licenses and appropriate personnel and technical potentials, which is logical, because if we take into account the importance and size of the project, it could not be done by any company. For these reasons, I agree with the Government's opinion that this amendment should be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56863	Thank you, colleague Žarić Kovacevic. Member of the 17th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Here you are, colleague Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56864	Article 17 speaks of the choice of a strategic partner and this is the general problem that follows the construction, i.e. the beginning of the construction of this Corridor, and we will for who knows what time to repeat it, because the public needs to know, that before it even entered this business, Zorana Mihajlovic concluded some agreement with Bechtel for the construction of the Moravski Corridor at the cost of 800m euros, that our president then, last year, held the conference, shared the agreement with reporters, that I personally was Ana Brnabić, then in the Assembly, gave a copy of the agreement, that we asked her whether she knew what it was, that she had said she had never seen it. After that, the incident occurred when Scott was in the government of the Republic of Serbia, and Zorana was on his right, said that Kosovo was an independent state, therefore, in the government of the Republic of Serbia, at a conference and no one was bothered by it, Zorana Mihajlovic smiled nicely, as a good old friend. At that time, Zorana Mihajlovic told us that we are making up, that there is no talk about any work related to Bechtel, as we mention 800m euros, etc. We also said today that there is a Chinese firm that would do the job for 500m euros, so 300m euros disappeared from the government of the Republic of Serbia to Bechtel via Zorana and Scott. That's the problem that this whole business, the shadow that's going to be over this whole job, no matter when it's over and how it's done, and we're just going to see how much money it's going to be in the end, whether it's just gonna be that 800 million euros or more, because that's how it's always gonna be, why this job is done without a tender, avoiding public procurement, which, even in this law, is supposed to be legal. It's about us absolutely unacceptable. As is unclear to us, and here we intervened with this amendment, where you predicted that a strategic partner is also considered a consortium or any related person, i.e. the face of a strategic partner, any company that a strategic partner or its related person established for the purpose of realising this project in accordance with the law governing companies. How can you legally predict that a company that will be a strategic partner in this very important business will be established? Is that clear to you here? And nothing's clear, really nothing's clear. This whole job will end by probably ending, but it will again be the same story as Gilas, Gilas stole 300m euros on the bridge, Zorana stole 300m euros on this highway, so nothing at the end is good. It's not a good bill. It's not a good idea, or idea to build a highway, but it's only good at building this corridor, and everything else is under suspicion. The people will suffer, the companies will suffer, only Zoran, Bechtel and Scott will not.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56865	Thank you. On Article 17 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP... Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: A colleague, Mircic, checked in. Nobody checked in. Excuse me, please. Is your card correct? I think it's another kind of thing. Here you go, colleague Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56866	Okay, no wonder the card's been replaced with the times we live in. Something else that I haven't replaced, that's important. In fact, this is about a few things that matter, which is what the SRS insists on. Here the investor of this project is the state of Serbia. The Serbian government is in charge of 800 million to realise this project, which is of interest to both the state and all of us living in this Serbia. To speak simplisticly, as government representatives wish, that those who have objections, which make amendments, in this case the SRS, are automatically against the construction of this highway, this is already an overriding method. It's something that no one will seriously pay attention to such an explanation. But this is not about small funds that the state of Serbia owes, and it makes a special law when it comes to land availability. There's something that shows up for the first time. Corridors and ten and individual sections of Corridor 11 were made and, just a reminder, you remember that one section of Corridor 11 worked from field to field, from plot to plot. Everyone is in favour of simplifying these procedures, of being of public interest above all interests, but here we must take care, first of all, of two interests. The interest of the state and the interest of the individual who owns it, because if you enter ownership relations in this way, someone will complain, and that complaint will not delay the execution and adoption of the project, then it means a longstanding court dispute and the question is whether it will be justly compensated for the damage suffered by the individual. It cannot be generalised and said in advance – well, it will be to the detriment of all individuals, but must, if nothing else, the opposition at least be on guard. What's so weird about this? It's very strange here that it's prejudged, but it's already a contractor. The agreement, signed with Bechtel, the US company, brings extra caution to us Serbian radicals. It is a company that participated in the construction of the Pristina-Tirana road. You know how Bechtel did it? Bechtel took the money, hired a subcontractor, which is the Turkish company, took 20% of the total amount, the Turkish company finished the job. What's the problem now? The problem is that every country, every government, every government uses such and similar large projects to engage a wide range of its industry, its industries, construction operations. You know, in building one time you need, first of all, construction material, which is understood, you need construction machines, you need wood industry, because you need wood, you need a metal complex to activate, because you need nails, you need arms, etc. It is necessary to engage and host, because those who work have to eat somewhere, have to sleep somewhere, and that is a broad spectrum that employs, activates the state. If it takes domestic performers, then it is fully satisfied, what would be said, GDP growth. Now, look, what happened when it was made this time from Pristina to Tirana? It's known to the public. Turkey's subcontractor brought its labour force, brought its material, and eventually even brought food from Turkey. What's the use of those who paid for those works? It's a good thing they got the way away from it's no use, but it's seen to be fully accomplished, if possible, profit. What are we doing here? We here favour the company in advance, the party, arguing that they do not have our domestic companies, that they are not so capable and that they cannot do so, and look at the general surprise of the company "Integral" is capable of doing the Grdelička clisura and is not capable of "The Roads of Užice", and is not capable of "Planum" and are not capable of many travel companies from Serbia. How's that? How do you explain that? People, if we do this, we ask a simple question – if our tolls don't have a reference, how will it appear on a foreign market? How will he compete abroad? It's been known to everyone for a long time that, when it comes to building operations, our operational capacity has been pre-named. They had to work abroad anyway, and they had to do it before, no matter what they were involved in doing on our highways. They had to, because by volume, by the number of operating machines. That's the point. If they don't do the job, they don't have a reference, they can't compete, and we can't watch... Certainly the state has the money, the state is an investor, the Serbian government has the capacity to engage as many domestic operatives, domestic materials as possible. We're even going so far as to provide quarryes that will be within reach of the performer's costs. So we're going to some extreme, unknown to us. We have bad experience from Croatia where this company participated. Of course, there is another political dimension of the Bechtel company, but it can be satisfied in some other way, and not by giving 800 million just fine 20%, 160 million take, find a subcontractor the same as they found the Turkish company, find someone who won't have a single kilo of domestic material to take or a piece of domestic material. What's this all about? This is what the SRS warns about, and we can run polemics here, as some here try, so whenever an adequate answer disappears to say that whoever contests any part of this bill is against building highways, in general, against Serbia's progress. No, we are for construction, we are for Serbia's progress, but not in this way, in a way that and how it will later cost Serbia. This loan must be returned, Serbia must be in debt. Bechtel won't pay it back, he doesn't care. What about the construction industry? If we continue like this, what will bricks do to us, what will those who produce sand and gravel do to us? They won't do anything because the material will be absolutely under the authority of Bechtella, a company that, I say, favours and still has time to think about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56867	Thank you, colleague Mircic. Member of the 17th Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. The Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds submitted an amendment to Article 18. At the meeting of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds, a representative of the proposal has adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mr. Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56868	Here, look at the precedent. The government, on this bill of law which they claimed was perfect, proposed amendments through the board, to supplement the amendment by replacing the quarryes and land for the deposit of construction material covered by this law. That, believe me, is so far unseen. The government proposes an amendment to its law.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56869	Thank you, colleague Mircic. Member of the 18th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Member of the 19th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56870	The debate is over by amendments to the Moravia Corridor, so I'm thinking whether to finish that song from my neighborhood -- oh, Moravo, cloudy water, and because of this more than a blurry job with "Bechtel". The fact is, even in this article, you didn't know all the other positive legal regulations, so you put that there would be a possibility of release from VAT. We asked to delete this word "possibility", since the VAT Act has already established how the release is done, and what you wrote in the 2nd position that this will be determined by other acts of the Ministry of Finance, you certainly meant by the VAT Liberation Regulation for the construction of this highway. However, one other thing is more interesting for the end of this debate. How can you come into collage with the Memorandum you signed with the U.S. Government, especially a point that says all jobs and future jobs and infrastructures – taking into account the UN Convention against Corruption, or the Regional Anti-corruption Initiative. This job is a pure source of corruption. First of all, because of that, and time will show if this is the last day in the National Assembly to discuss this section of the road, that this kilometer that was supposed to cost with Chinese performers 4.5 million dinars, on average now costs 7.2 when you took the American company Bechtel is not even the ultimate price. Just remember the case, we mentioned it, from Bucharest to the Hungarian border, when the Romanians eventually gave up, and even, we mentioned, a Croatian minister in 2005, because Bechtel raised the price of construction and resigned by 30% after the contract was signed. We believe that we will not wait so long for Zorana Mihajlovic to no longer be the minister in this government.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56871	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. He responded after the amendment, Marijan Risticevic. Here you go, Mr. Ristichevich.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56872	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here several MPs represented the public interest of the real estate seller. Basically, they're sellers, and they're all in favor, as far as I understand these MPs, to pay as much as possible, they're on the side of real estate, salesmen. The state is a community of people who, in the public interest, need to, if he can't find the roads, but he has to build them. That road is state property, the property of all citizens. When real estate is sold, probably, that when the state pays for it, they probably all pay for it. Probably all citizens will pay for that highway. The cost of the highway includes the purchase of real estate. So, you don't just have to push for real estate salesmen to get as much money as possible, because that money has to be given to all citizens. More than even the sellers are damaged citizens who are not property owners, because they must pay these properties through taxes and contributions, and with this public interest should be very careful, they should not be damaged by owners, but they should not be excessively betrayed, because some people, some citizens, have to pay through taxes, contributions, etc. Also, last time I was saying that our biggest stops were Jasenovac, Jadovno, Ibar Highway, and only then Kragujevac, Šurmarica. Since 2000, 14,000 people have been killed. If only 20% were killed by bad roads, those from the party of the former regimes, who boycott the work of the National Assembly, carry nearly 3,000 people to their conscience. Far more than it died in the aggression of the NATO Pact. In the fierce and criminal aggression of the NATO Pact, between two and three thousand people, including soldiers and civilians, died. Twenty-two thousand tons of NATO pact bombs couldn't bring us as many casualties as the former regime's party, by not building roads, but by stealing and bringing money to Cook and other islands. We all have to give up a little something to build this road, and the highest layer of VAT pay when it enters the supermarket, it somehow rejects everyone else, beats up, etc., and a wide layer of citizens will pay this time. You should be careful with the expropriation, with public interest, not at the expense of the sellers, but not at the expense of the citizens. Why were the roads still important? That's also a demographic question. We think from the inside that our greatest opponents, not our own will, are great cities. By the will of those of us living in the interior who want better roads, better living conditions, many have moved to Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nis, Kragujevac. Better highways need to be better than economic development, more justly deploying the population in Serbia by means of roads and economic development, so that Serbia does not turn into residents of four major cities, while the whole interior is a large nursing home. It is very important that these quality roads come to the last place and the last settlement, and in such a way, no matter how many inhabitants Serbia will have, to deploy them and thus preserve our territories. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56873	Thank you, colleague Rističević. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 21st amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is by Dr Zorana Mihajlovic, Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56874	At the end of this debate, I would first like to thank all MPs and MPs for their contribution and for the constructive debate we had in principle and today. I think several messages are most important for Serbian citizens, which is that the Serbian government is defined as building infrastructure. Without traffic, therefore, transport infrastructures whether it is road infrastructure, rail, air, water, no new investments and no practical remains of our people in all parts of Serbia. It's one of the strategic interests of our country we've been working on for several years. The result is over 300km of highways, 700km of rehabilitated railway lines, three international airports that Serbia today has. The current value of investment in infrastructure is close to 14 billion euros. It refers to all the investments we make in the area of infrastructure. This year is very important and crucial for Serbia, when we talk about transport infrastructure. We're really starting to build a couple of highways this year. One of these highways is the highway that should practically connect central Serbia and that is the highway between Pojata and Preljina. I think it's important not only for half a million people living in that part of Serbia, it's important for our country, because on the one hand we connect with the region and our neighbours and it's also important, but it's equally important that our citizens within Serbia are also connected. That's why this highway is important, so there's been a special law in front of you all these days that should allow us to be as fast and efficient as possible in the realisation of the highways. Our opinion in the Government of the Republic of Serbia is that we had such laws for large infrastructure projects, such as Corridor 10. It is absolutely certain that this Corridor Serbia would not build more than 10, 20 years and we are seriously thinking among other things and making a law together for all infrastructure projects, so that we do not come into a situation where some things delay the implementation of the project. Serbian citizens should know that the construction of the Moravia Corridor begins, we hope for summer. It is the government of the Republic of Serbia that will choose a strategic partner in accordance with this law, in accordance with sublaws defined by criteria. No one has chosen any strategic partner. No one has taken money from the Republic of Serbia's budget, because it is the money of citizens of Serbia, to spend something illegally, but everything we do and create in our budget, we create to invest in many infrastructure projects. This time we talk first of all about transport infrastructure. Just enough to say that this highway Moravia Corridor is not just a highway, it is also an arrangement of Morava and its tributaries, it is also a telecommunication Corridor. Also, because of many lies, conspiracy theory, insinuation, untruths that could be heard these days, it is my obligation to say that there is no offer in previous years at some 500m euros or lower amount of construction of the Moravia Corridor. That is, above all, not true, as it is not true that I or anyone in the Serbian government chose a partner, but rather a partner, so now I have put some law before the MPs so that they will be practically before the final act. Our interest is to make everything transparent and transparent. Another thing that is important for both citizens and construction companies, so this law and everything we do, as well as all previous contracts that we have made for other highways within Serbia, means the roads that we connect with other countries, Serbian companies are building and highways. There is an obligation of at least 50% of the participation of not only Serbian companies on the construction of all roads, bridges we see today in Serbia, so more than 40,000 construction sites are on Serbia's territory today. Just seven years ago, there were about 1,500 of them, and that's what the result is. So, construction companies, travel companies are Serbian, at least up to 50% in each contract. The material is primarily used from Serbia. When we mention even great gratitude to the Committee, therefore, that we have accepted the amendment, that is, what the Government has proposed together with the Committee of Assembly, which is to take care of the expropriation of loans precisely to control the process and precisely because we do not have a situation to raise the price of the contract itself. So that's why the government, among other things, asked the Committee and why we have such amendments. Also, I think it's important to say that this is how we regulate, so all the hydrotechnical work will be done at 68.15 kilometers of corridors that are 110 kilometers long. So there will be no more fear of floods and problems and all of what practically, especially in that part of Serbia, we always have fear and problems are happening to us. This highway should be built within two and a half years and should really allow this highway, along one already industrial zone that we have, to form at least two other industrial zones, because that actually means, that's why the roads serve, they are the basis and basis for further development, for the economic development of our country. So I sincerely hope that when you vote for construction, that is, this law that will allow us to build the Moravia Corridor faster. You should know that it is a great thing for Serbia to start over 400km of new roads in 2019, and that one of them is the path that will finally bring Serbia together with Serbia, the citizens of Serbia within our country. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56875	Thank you. Professor Miladin Ševarlic answered the words. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56876	Thank you very much. I am disappointed that in relation to the principle debate when I asked certain questions, which the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for, I said I would get answers. Until today, I haven't received any answers, so I can use those answers in this debate. Given that Serbia lost a million and a half hectares on one side from 1960 to 2012, and the fact that for one centimetre of an oric layer, it takes a minimum of 1,000 to 25 thousand years depending on the basis of its formation in nature, so for 60cm ornic layer it takes between 60 million and a half years, i.e. if the average age of the population is between 800 and 20 thousand generations. So when we estimate the value of land as the mother of all things, we should consider the benefit for 20,000 generations to come. With this in mind, since the Minister said in principle there was a project, I asked how many hectares of agricultural land would be excluded and its structure. If it's the coast of Morava, then it's a land between first and third class and it's a row of specially protected land classes. That's one question. Secondly, if there is land certified for organic farming in this area, is there a five - year period for land cultures to retake land to organic farming? Given all of this, I think that the debate without this data, despite the fact that we are all interested in building highways, especially me, because I'm from Preljina, but given the interest of the owners of this land, the inability to arrange larger bay systems in that area that will be cut down by that corridor, there are no data that there have been alternative routes and which are reasons why these alternative routes on the hills do not go, because between Chačka and Kraljena, i.e. Adran, there are no exits, i.e. the Preljina pardon, and the Adriatic has no exits, even the exits of the Marcavers for one highway connecting by Mrčavci and Ravni Gaj, i.e. Kragujevac, etc. I think there were a lot of questions we didn't get our answers to. One of the questions is, let's say, how will the post-factum be regulated, so after the beginning of the papers, the question, if accidentally covered, I don't know if it is or isn't, the land that serves as the viewing good of the Faculty of Agronomics in Chačka. How the generations of students will complete their studies without regulating the issue in advance and not providing them with land to practice. Thanks for the time.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56877	Thank you, Professor. Chesaves. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. I thank all the MPs for their participation in the work, of course Deputy Prime Minister Zorana Mihajlovic, for his commitment and value to build us that highway. We continue at 1:30. So we're taking a break of ten minutes. We continue with the work, the 3rd item of the agenda, the search in detail, the draft law on the municipal militia. Thank you. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. I would like to welcome Minister Ruzic and his associates. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the sittings were invited to attend Branko Ruzic, Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government Zoran Kasalovic and Bojan Stevic, State Secretary at the Ministry of State Administration and Local Self-Government and Sasa Mogic, Assistant Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government. You have received amendments submitted by MPs on the draft of the law: Verica Radeta, Tatjana Macura, Vladimir Đurić, Aleksandar Stevanović, Nemanja Radojevic, Vladimir Orlic, Natasa Sp. Jovanovic, Nemanja Sarović, Aleksandar Seselj, Milorad Mirčić, Aleksandra Belačić, Sreto Perić, Dubravko Bojić, Ružica Nikolic, Filip Stojanović, Tomislav Ljubenović, Petar Jojić, Zoran Despotović, Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović, Nikola Savic, Miljan Damjanović, Božidar Delić, Momcilo Mandić, Ljiljana Mihajlović, Marina Ristić and Miroslava Stanković Đuričić. The amendment was written by the MPs: Marko Djurisic, Miroslava Alexic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic in art. 3, 11, 18, 25, 26, 29, 30, 31, 32, 35, 36, 37, 40, 44, 45, 46 and 48. It's a bill of law. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56879	In the principle debate, we presented our views and objections to this bill, we said that the law on the municipal militia should not have been passed at all, that it was possible to organise a service like the gendarmes, for example, that would deal with these matters that are within the jurisdiction of the municipal militia under the provisions of this bill, which we have here proposed. Of course, we have a lot of amendments and we will talk about them during the debate in particular. We're going to retake those key remarks that relate first of all to the fact that communal cops can't work without uniforms and that they can't apply force, that they can't carry any kind of weapon, not even cold. But the amendment relating to this first member of the bill is, it may seem formal, you said you did not accept it because it did not contribute to the regulation or to the precision of the text of the bill. We think the opposite, and that's why we put up with it. You can't, there's no reason in this law for the city of Belgrade to be separated from other local self-government. The city of Belgrade is also a local self-government under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. If you have any intention of particularly applying this law in the City of Belgrade, and this is obvious, you will hear about what we have to say during this debate, then you should have said a bill on the municipal militia in Belgrade. But this is a law that applies to the whole of the Republic, to all local self-government and we thought that the City of Belgrade must be within the others, i.e. it must be covered in the term of the unit of local self-government, which is actually the city of Belgrade.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56880	Thank you, colleague Radeta. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs Tatjana Macura, Vladimir Djuric, Aleksandar Stevanovic and Nemanja Radojevic. The word has a folk MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic, according to this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56881	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, immediately in the first amendment of the amendment, it is clear that it does not contribute to the promotion or accuracy of the text of the Bill, which the Government has also stated in the opinion given. I would refer first to the proposal to delete Article 1(3)'s position, and it reads - The Communist militia on the territory of the City of Belgrade, in addition to the business described in Articles 1 and 2 of this article, also performs other tasks of the municipal militia, which provide for the exercise of the jurisdiction set out in the law. So this law that we are discussing must not be observed in any way, that is, we must bear in mind the provisions of other laws that are directly related to the solutions that are proposed here. For example, the Community Labour Act directly points to co-operation with the municipal militia when it comes to the exercise of the powers laid down by the law. There are other laws that are in line with the municipal militia law and erasing this attitude, I think it would only create a problem. But to return to paragraph 1, the amendment proposes that after the word "educated", the words "if necessary" should be added, in the sense that the municipal militia is educated as needed. Simply, there is no need for such an amendment, because from the text of the bill, we can just see that units of local self-government will determine the number of municipal militiamen in line with the needs of the introduction and maintenance of the municipal order. By resolving the draft law, it is only possible to form a municipal militia and I consider this amendment incomplete and that it should be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56882	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Aleksandar Markovic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56883	The Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, just not having the motion for this amendment talks enough about the seriousness of the amendment itself. I will try to be as gentle as possible, so to say that it is an unnecessary amendment that would essentially change nothing in the bill itself, and as the Government said in its opinion, the amendment does not contribute either to the promotion or to the precise text of the bill itself. But the fact that the promoters did not come to the debate on amendments to the proposed law speaks for enough. However, I would like to say because of the citizens that we and in the principle debate have underlined that the basic objective of this bill is finally the introduction of a municipal order in Serbia, and I think it is something beyond what is necessary. I think it's something that's good for the citizens of Serbia. I would also refer to some objections from some colleagues who once again questioned the work without the uniform of future municipal militiamen. Therefore, it is simply an introduction of a category that will contribute to the efficiency of the work itself done by future municipal militias. In practice so far, we've noticed big problems about it and simply, this is one way to overcome the problems we've recorded so far. So working in uniform is one category that will contribute that the violation of the communal order will not in the future be able to avoid recording their violations and sanctioning them. We used to have a case of someone playing loud music or in any other way creating a communal disorder or communal problems, the municipal police coming in, they spot them in time, reduce music or already adjust the situation to a given moment and nothing. The communal police leave, they continue with what they have done until then, and again the citizens suffer and suffer. Simply, this is how we introduce a more efficient method of solving such problems. When it comes to the use of force, there is no use of force and this law decidently eliminates any possibility of possible abuse, so the municipal police will have handcuffs, they will have a bat, they will have spray, so there are no firearms, no stories in that sense. When it comes to the city of Belgrade, as the capital city, this law does not single out the city of Belgrade in any way as a unit of local self-government, but we simply need to be aware of the specificity of the city of Belgrade as the capital, as a two-million-dollar city. That's why I, on several occasions and in principle, underlined what was most important, that this law would create benefits for small and smaller municipalities, i.e. smaller municipalities, but also for a large city and I had in mind the city of Belgrade which so far had over 300 or maybe over 300 municipal police officers, which is quite inadequate and very little, given that we are talking about a city of two million people where it took a far greater number of people. This is exactly the law we're making assumptions about right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56884	Thank you, colleague Markovic. The word is Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56885	Thank you, Chairman. I agree with the Government's view that the amendment should not be accepted or rejected. Article 1(1) The bill defines essentially the purpose of the municipal militia and the whole bill aimed at facilitating the functioning of local self-government, especially those on whose territory the work of the municipal police has not been organised so far, now the militia. In addition to the change of the police's name to the militia, this bill also brings a newspaper that will improve the work of municipal militias, but also ensure better quality municipal order on the ground, and I hope, at least to some extent, to remove the negative phenomena that are everyday in our society, which in certain territories of our country are already crossing from the area of criminal offences on the ground of criminal acts. The expectations of the municipal militia are high, primarily because of the numerous rooted ugly habits of individuals who are endangering both the environment and their own procedures of self-will, make it impossible for other citizens to live qualityly. Namely, all of us are familiar with examples of various boasts and inappropriate behaviors of individuals who only because of the dominant domestic inexperience manage to behave in a way that is not to be tolerated in any civilized country. There are numerous examples of waste disposal along the road, waste disposal of garbage bags from the saltier terrace, spilling various waste and toxic substances into rivers, creating wild dumps, trimming facades of buildings with various sprays, blocking passages by some means of transport or leaving old things on the stairs of buildings, throwing cigarette smokes out the window on the street, playing loud music late into the night, etc. Admitted or not by these phenomena, but also by countless others we watch every day, require an adequate response from state and local self-government in order to eventually be eradicated or reduced to the least possible presence. The task of the municipal militia will be to protect the general interests and against the reckless and irresponsible individuals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56886	Thank you, colleague Mrdakovic. The People's MP Natasha Sp submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Jovanovic. Here you go, colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56887	This is a very important issue, Mr. Ruzic, because you are witnessing that the state of Serbia in its sovereign territory has major problems when it comes to the use of state symbols in the Bujanovac and Presevo municipalities because Albanians living there, because of ideology and because of their decades-long goal, each November marks the day of the Albanian flag. It is truly incomprehensible that every year the same problem arises, that the Albanian flag on the territory of the Republic of Serbia is flying along with a national symbol, one of the national symbols, and that is the flag of the Serbian trio and that they say - however, that is fine, it is quite normal, because we need to think about future generations. It is their thinking that that part of Serbia attaches so-called. An independent Kosovo, to unite with Albania and make a great Albania. Simply, this law on the municipal militia of the sea, although we are aware of it when the Great Trnovac can't even get into the gendarmes to seduce order, that he can't even have a municipal militiaman come to Velika Trnovac and take down the Albanian flag on the Leshi monument, but it must be done as a message from the state and respect it. Secondly, Mr. Ruzic, you know, we really must be here as MPs responsible for the work that the people have chosen us to keep mentioning and that we are teaching future generations that the flag, coat of arms and anthem are national state symbols of the Republic of Serbia, perhaps you did not know, Mr. Marinkovic, and another fourth, and that is the flag that is behind you, as the chairman, and Mr. Branko, so-called. A standart working only in this dimension for the President of the Republic and for the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. All the work done by the Cypriot villains and terrorists and in the area of these two municipalities in southern Serbia and in the area of our AP KIM we have to stamp everywhere and in every law to let them know that it can't do so. We have another problem, Mr. Ruzic, you are elected Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia in one sovereign country, and also in ministerial cabinets and here in the National Assembly when various delegations from these EU officials come and there is an EU flag in the building of the Republic Presidency. Is that a national state symbol? Should I go back to the beginning of my explanation of what state and national symbols are established by the law and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which everyone must respect? That is why you need to accept this amendment and that this part in the second sentence that says: "except for state authorities, the authorities of territorial autonomy of local self-government units and public authority holders". And for them they know what symbols they can, because the local self-government unit has its own, every established coat of arms on which the city writes, and that one, it's the same for certain state institutions, we spoke about the Serbian literary community yesterday. Let's say, I'm now taking illustrations for the sake of, I don't have time, I could list by tonight the examples that this symbol created by their, or drawn, famous founder of the Jovan Jovanovic Dragon cooperative. Now he can't think of anyone putting where he wants and what he wants. The most drastic example, and for this reason we insist on this, is that the Cypriots are working in southern Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56888	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. Members of the 1st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic and MP Aleksandar Seselj. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Tatjana Macura, Vladimir Djuric, Aleksandar Stevanovic and Nemanja Radojevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3rd amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. The 4th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Aleksandra Belačić and joint MPs Tatjana Macura, Vladimir Djuric, Aleksandar Stevanović and Nemanja Radojevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is Alexandra Belačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56889	With my amendment, I suggest that Article 4 be deleted. The bill, which concerns assistance in implementing executive decisions by members of the municipal militia. This member is scheduled for municipal police officers to assist in implementing decisions taken by local self-government, businesses, organisations or institutions, and is also foreseen that if citizens are physically resistant to the municipal police, the police should only then be involved. We suggest that this article be deleted because it is anti-constitutional. We believe that the only persons who should intervene and physically deal with citizens, to force them to obey regulations, are police officers. There may be a situation for municipal police to be in civilian, since the proposal for a law on the municipal militia predicts that they can act without uniforms and thus try to intervene in a certain way in a civilian way, leading to citizens' resistance. We've already had such situations in the past. I was the one who mentioned the unfavorable case here with the watermelon salesman, who died after a conflict with a member of the municipal police, and then the minister said that this case should not be mentioned as an isolated example, that it was happening. It is an isolated example, but it is human life, and no matter what that one life is, it is a terrible tragedy, and it should not happen again, and we fear that there will be more cases if this provision remains that municipal police officers can intervene and commit physical coercion to the citizens. Since we have failed to convince you of the arguments to withdraw this amendment and the law as a whole, we can only warn citizens of what is going to happen and to invite them not to accept these provisions and not to allow municipal police officers to be the ones who will sanction them in any way. I can tell you in my name that if I ever commit any kind of offence, I won't mind the police reacting, but I won't speak to the municipal police, nor will I be sanctioned in any way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56890	Alexander Markovic answered the word. Do you want to follow the amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56891	Thank you. It is easier for some, in doing so immediately, to fence, not to think about the previous speaker but to the other legislators of this amendment, it is obviously easier for some to submit the amendment, to find it appropriate to write in that explanation what they want, not to come to the Parliament's session to defend their amendments, but through some statements or press conferences to try to make an argument about it, which, of course, absolutely makes no sense and can not be called a surplus in that sense. However, I would like for the sake of the citizens and for trying to create some kind of panic, as some new institute is now being introduced against citizens, repression, etc. just a few data to present. In Serbia, as in any other country, the only force institute is police and military. This is about the assistance of the competent state authorities. Therefore, this municipal militia, as it will be called in the future, will not act, nor will it replace the police or the military or any other apparatus of coercion that the state has at its disposal, simply, is about providing assistance in adequate situations, prescribed by law and providing assistance to the competent state authorities. No one here will play any police, no violence whatsoever. Some events from the past are mentioned. I can say that I agree with the assessment that there have been some mistakes in the past and that there have been some rough scenes, we all live in the same country, and we've witnessed everything that's happened, it's not controversial. It's a dispute that SNS can't be responsible for something like that. So, in the end, this law, the Law on the Communist Police, was passed in 2009. Some others brought it, we inherited it. Now we're trying to record exactly all of the shortcomings that this current law had in practice, right now we want all these shortcomings to be removed by this new law. That's what we do successfully. It's all, in the end, and the content of the proposed law, with what was probably just to read it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56892	Thank you. Nejko Jovanovic responded after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56893	I thank you, Chairman. The amendment cannot be accepted because of the likely lack of understanding of the systematisation of the rules, on the one hand, and on the other hand the demarcation of jurisdiction. In a particular situation, both this law and the previous police law were very clear, and especially now, in the bill of law, defined the powers of the municipal militia. And in no case are they intruding, or usurping the police's responsibilities, specifically, the authorised official of the interior ministry's face. Those measures of repression that have authorised persons of the municipal militia are limited character and these measures of repression do not exceed the limits of repression that the Ministry of the Interior may, in appropriate situations, enforce, under the prescribed law, the authorised official face of the Ministry of the Interior. Secondly, the mantra about whether it can be intervened with a uniform or without a uniform has been deprived of any sense, given the provisions of the Police Act, on the one hand, the Code of Criminal Procedure, on the other hand. Considering that an official with his status has been authorised, with his reference, with his training, with his tasks that he has been given, minors daily, at any time, at any time, whether work or out of work, on a mission and on the ground. He can run stores without a uniform. Whether to legislate or not when performing those actions is now a matter of certain rules and rules of conduct. But in any case, the store can run. I think you've set a good example in explaining the bill when you pointed out a phenomenon that had a tragic epilogue, but the tragedy in a further follow-up of the whole situation, and it's far more difficult to explain the bill, prevented the fact that the communal police officers intervened, preventing the perpetrator of a serious crime, the most serious crime to get away from the scene and avoid the law enforcement. So that's what the municipal cops did. Did they do it by law? They did. Did they do it because it was necessary at that point? Yes, it is. The provisions of the Criminal Code say that the necessary defence as a criminal-legal institute is also applied in situations where the simultaneous danger of attacks is removed, and extreme necessity, environmental hazards, in particular, has been acted in a situation of extreme urgency. Is there any basis in the law? Of course I do. Of course, extreme necessity and necessary defence justify in any case all the measures carried out when it comes to the tasks entrusted to officials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56894	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. He's got his word for the amendment, Professor. Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56895	Dear Vice President, it's a very important municipal militia, as colleagues have said. However, in the past we have had some problems at the city level, when various mafias were at stake. Among them was a municipal mafia, known as the so-called so-called so-called Communal Mafia. The garbage mob, which is one of the first to be hit after the break-in of the former regime. It is suspected that the garbage mafia during the DS authorities, or while the mayor was Dragan Gilas, in a people known as the Gjiki Mafia, damaged Serbian citizens, primarily Belgrade's 310m dinars and was sentenced to 73 years in prison, however, the Court of Appeal released it, although the trial lasted ten years. The garbage mafia is suspected to have been associated with then- Mayor Dragan Gilas, known as the Gjiki Mafia and Gilas's political-financial mafia. What is important, however, is that journalists also need to report objectively when we pass laws in this high house, including the Law on the People's Police. I don't feel like it's what journalists do, especially journalists with the N1 CIA. Thus, a certain journalist, Jovana Gligorijević, among other things, says: "Some Atlagic curses his political opponents by softening in the National Assembly." First of all, I'm not much of an Atlagic, and I'm not a sheep or a goat to soft. What I'm doing is I'm very argumentatively critical of my political opponents, once successful, once unsuccessful. The truth is, for example, when my colleague Vlad Orlic says, I am now quoting that Dragan Djilas, I am adding "Djiki Mafia", in 2011 damaged the state-owned company Telecom Serbia by selling four cable channels for 7.7m euros, and then I do "Au". Au is a normal form of parliamentary work, both in this Parliament, and in European, global, etc. Do you know who John is? Here, just one sentence. It's a journalist working for a Croatian portal. Citiram Ratko Dimitrovic – Jovana Gligorijević writes about a Croatian portal funded by the Croatian Ministry of Culture, and the minister of the ministry is Ustasha Hasanbegovic, completed a quote. Dmitrovic adds: "Jovana begins one text – Today's Serbia is a horror," it is music for Hasanbegovic," a quote concluded. That's exactly how I comment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56896	Thank you, Professor. Atlagic. Now we're gonna take a break shorter than usual. We'll continue at 1435 hours. The break is 30 minutes. [[after breaks]] Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. The title above Articles 4 and 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Orlic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Jelena Žarić Kovacevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56898	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I would like to say that it is a good thing that the amendment of fellow Orlic, which changes the title above Articles 4 and 4 in which one position is added. The accent was put here for the co-operation of the municipal militia with authorized organizations and the performer of municipal activity. I think this is very important if we look at it from the point of view of the Law on Local Self-Government or the Law on Community Works. The adoption of this amendment completes the law and is more precisely defined by Article 4 as this co-operation is currently being looked at in the exchange of information, joint operation, joint use of funds, equipment and devices provided by an authorised organisation or by an operator of municipal activity. Accordingly, the municipal militia will maintain a municipal order, of course, in accordance with its powers, which is important for the exercise of municipal activity and is also important for the control of the application of laws, general acts and other regulations governing the activities of the local self-government unit. In any case, the very reason for the amendment shows the need for this amendment to become, as it will become, an integral part of this law. In a specific case, it is best to see why it is good to accept such an amendment, e.g. The National Police in Nis had over 190 assists in just six months of work this year. So, co-operation with the City Administration, specifically with all the secretariats, with all the inspections, e.g. with the Directorate for Public Transport, or with the Directorate for the Construction of the City, is necessary and the adoption of this amendment is in addition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56899	Thank you, colleague Žarić Kovacevic. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Tatjana Macura, Vladimir Djuric, Aleksandar Stevanovic and Nemanja Radojevic. Does anyone want a word? Alexander Markovic. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56900	Thank you, Chairman. I'm absolutely against prescribing a specific deadline, in this case we have an amendment where it says that the deadline for a 30-day response is forecasted. So, I think that the Serbian government has given the best possible explanation in its opinion why this amendment is unacceptable, because there are indeed many situations in which citizens inform the municipal militia only in the possibility of violating the municipal order and simply there are no grounds for feedback. So, for these and many other reasons, I don't think it's appropriate to set specific deadlines. However, the very intensity of this amendment was to write some post-poo amendment. Now, you need to ask them why they're here for 30 days, why exactly 30, why not 10, 20, 15, whatever? They probably wouldn't have been able to explain it to you themselves, but there was, simply, a desire to write an amendment in every way possible to get some time to argue. By the way, let's be clear, those discussions are gone, because they, as amendment promoters, have not come to explain their amendments, which is absolutely strange and unimaginable to me. To be honest, I make a difference between some MPs. So we have MPs who are so-called. "boykot", which is absolutely not interested in this debate, nor in any other debate, they boycott, do not come to sessions or submit amendments. But now we have some others who are the same in that so-called. "the boycott," however, they submit amendments. Now, after they pull them out, like one parliamentary group, I've been informed, I've withdrawn my amendments, whatever that means, and we have a third category, those who aren't in the boycott, who submit amendments, whatever these amendments are, but then they don't come to debate. So for all these reasons, I think it is absolutely unacceptable this amendment, but for that reason, let me say, which government has delivered to us in its explanation why this amendment should not be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56901	Thank you, colleague Markovic. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Here you go, Professor Boyicz.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56902	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, a few MPs, I have asked my amendment to delete Article 8 of this bill, because it is in collapsing with Article 2(2) of that article. So far, the image in the municipal police is rather vague, pale and inconclusive, and the citizens think that this service has not been able to work out in practice, that it has not been rooted and revived. It dominates the impression of their inactivity. They're not just on the street, they're only responding by invitation, which is more about their not engagement, than about their work error. The promoter wants this bloodless photo of the municipal police to be fixed. How? By passing a new law on the municipal militia. He wants to do something between the police and the inspection, which reminds me very much of Srdjan Karanovic's movie "something in between". The original law has run for municipal police, now we are convinced that this is impossible, because the name "police" is reserved only for the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of the Army. The former militia was also very effective. It was a matter of nature, not a name. I think it's more appropriate to call it "redivation", because the essence of this service's work is keeping order on public events, sports events, parties and the like. Citizens feel insecure, and we make some hybrids. The "police" is not, neither is "inspection," not even "police," because it's a second name for "police." Well, what is she? You take something from the police, but you give it to her. A partnership is sought with her, a police report is filed, requested by an older brother, i.e. The police agree on the annual plan, the appearance of uniforms, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56903	Thank you, Professor Boyich. Aleksandar Markovic answered the question, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56904	Very brief, Chairman. I felt the need to report for two, say, remarks, when it comes to the current situation that we have about the activities of the municipal police. So I can agree that there are certain objections to the work of the municipal police, which we are trying to correct with this law. We've heard that they're inactive communal cops, that they're not on the street, and that's actually how they get that impression. Well, that's exactly what we were talking about in the principle debate, but even today in the debate on amendments, what has been the limit so far, the current law on the number of municipal police officers could have gotten that impression. This law removes this restriction and creates the possibility that, depending on the needs and possibilities of units of local self-government, therefore, municipalities and cities and again apostrophe of the city of Belgrade as the capital city, as the largest city, we create assumptions that we are hiring more municipal militants, as this category will be called from now on. So we won't have a limit in this regard, but depending on the needs and possibilities of the city, we'll hire more municipal militants. The city of Belgrade has two million inhabitants. It was impossible for us, with 300 officers engaged, to maintain the municipal order at what is expected of the city of Belgrade. With this law, we remove this deficit, create the possibility of hiring new ones, and it is estimated that, immediately after the adoption of this law, 300 more municipal police officers will be hired, and in the future up to 1,000, which is the need of such a city as the city of Belgrade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56905	Thank you, colleague Markovic. The word has Nedjo Jovanovic, according to the amendment. Here you go, colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56906	I thank you, Chairman. If such an amendment were to be accepted, it would undoubtedly cause certain adverse consequences for the functioning of the municipal militia. Given that the municipal militia must co-operate with other institutions, and, among other institutions, if such a termological definition can be defined at all, the Ministry of the Interior is. What's so important about this? Mostly because of a strategy developed by the municipal militia when it comes to identifying other neural points under which the municipal militia must be engaged. Secondly, what is very important is the exchange of information or data between the MUP and the municipal militia. And let us not forget one of the most important facts when it comes to the proposal of this law, which is finally restoring the possibility that all local self-governments, therefore not only cities that have had that privilege or benefit, if that is so said, and municipalities have organised or formed a municipal militia, or authorized officials who will deal with matters of the jurisdiction of the municipal militia, that is, what all outside of the inspection supervision in the field of municipal service and outside the jurisdiction of the MUP means. Therefore, citizens can now be far more secure and aware that the availability of all that implies control of any and prevention of any illegal acts or actions at their expense is to be prevented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56907	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. National MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 9th amendment. Here you go, colleague Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56908	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have also submitted an amendment to Article 9 which provides for the possibility of forming a common municipal militia of local self-government units, with the conclusion of a co-operation agreement under the provisions of the law governing local self-government. We have proposed to delete this member, because we believe that joining the service at the level of local self-government, that it is pointless and that it usurps jurisdiction from the republican level. The purpose of the municipal militia is to ensure that local self-government is exercised in the area of municipal action and this legislative proposal creates the possibility that all towns and municipalities in Serbia have a municipal militia. Given that the municipal militia is largely in a poor voice, the impression is that this is just a new force of coercion on Serbian citizens. Don't forget that municipal police officers have acquired a bad reputation because of a number of incidents and over-authorizations, and the communal police have been following up on a number of incidents. Because of such behaviour, Serbian citizens are bitter about the current municipal police. Also, this proposal has extended powers, but we will talk about this later when the amendments come, and in particular we will talk about it. We believe that such a law as this is, that we do not need it and that it would be best if this law were withdrawn from the procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56909	Thank you. National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to the 10th amendment. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56910	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, I have submitted an amendment to Article 10. Proposal for a law on municipal militia. I asked for the amendment to be deleted in point (1) of point (1) of the first sentence: ‘and the second law of order’. Every law, including this one, must be precise, and this as it stands in the text is a good basis for abuse. And this, as well as my other amendments I have submitted, is intended to point out that this is a very serious matter. People there are getting used to the notion of municipal police, and now we're passing a law on the municipal militia. Otherwise, I find both of them unnecessary. But now we're gonna have a lot of confusion about this. An ordinary citizen doesn't know what the difference is between municipal and ordinary police, and now he won't know whether or not the municipal police have been removed or even the municipal militia has been added next to it. There is no way a man can cope with a mess like this, let alone an ordinary citizen. I think this law was completely unnecessary, because we're going to have more damage than good from it. That is why this law should be withdrawn from the congregation procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56911	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56912	Thank you. Of course, we in the SPS MP group respect and respect each amendment, given our confidence that these amendments are submitted from good intentions, in order to improve the quality of the law. However, what cannot be accepted here cannot be accepted one fact relating to the systematization of the contained law, or normisation, as it has been done, because it is indeed extremely precise and clear. When it is said that apart from the engagement of the municipal militia in the area of municipal order, it can be engaged there and where it is regulated by other laws, then we must bear in mind what it is where the municipal militia can even be engaged – in the field of environmental protection, where the provisions of the laws relating to the protection of the environment apply, where water streams and dangers of spillage are concerned, i.e. the endangering of the dangers of liquefied flows, fecal wastes, etc., the provisions of the Water Law apply. So we have a conglomerate of laws that must be kept in mind when it comes to the involvement of the municipal militia. We can't commit to just what communal activity means. After all, we also have the Law on Community Works. Therefore, the normisation of the law as it has been done in this proposal is more than clear, so that such an amendment would indeed damage itself to the text of the proposal of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56913	Thank you. Here you go, colleague, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56914	According to my colleague Filip Stojanovic's amendment. So it was necessary, Mr. Minister, for you to accept this solution because your colleague Stojanovic was right, because maintaining the municipal order means, what was established by this law, what your colleague Jovanovic said simply does not stand. When it's said here, I guess that's the point, and you're here to explain, protecting the environment, letting go, what kind of floods, what kind of rivers, what kind of fires, there are emergency units of the Republic of Serbia, they're dealing with it. When you think about protecting the environment, you don't think that a communal militiaman is chasing white-headed soup through Uvac, Dobril or someone else, who hurt or escaped or to save a dark bear on Tara. So that's what mountain service is for. When it comes to environmental protection, a municipal militiaman, but as you call him now, in Tashmajdan Park, he'll normally protect, if you've already given him those powers, that environment, and that someone doesn't come out of pure peace with a saw, like that bosco's lunatic who got into RTS, to cut something out there, or not to enter the RTS. Do you understand? He goes, says public order and peace. We'll talk about that later, about the means of coercion. Here when you say environmental protection, you know it would be crazy to ask, I guess you won't, or units of local self-government, from the municipal militia to jump into the river, into the water, to save rare animal species, to save, if found. We'll talk about it later. What you mentioned as an example, as a pandan to the case where a man literally lost his life because of the sale of watermelons, so you said -- but they prevented, the municipal police officers, in front of the welfare center, from having a greater tragedy. That's true, and it's certainly for every praise, but it's just, Mr. Rose, that they were there at a given time. Thank God they were here, so they stopped. You know, it's gonna be, God forbid some other situations where it won't be in that moment, so what do we say then - they didn't do their job.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56915	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. The word has Nedjo Jovanovic, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56916	Thank you, Chairman. I'm not picking up any more replicas. Just to further clarify what cannot be doubted and what citizens of the Republic of Serbia and how well they recognize. It is true that the demarcated responsibilities of municipal inspectors, environmental inspectors, are relative to the municipal militia. However, it is also true and it cannot be doubted that there are situations that sometimes arise in court disputes, such as negative emissions, in terms of excessive noise, in terms of other negative emissions that relate to concrete housing, when closed so-called. light beams from the sun and many other things where no one else can react, except for the threat, by citizens of the Republic of Serbia who have the right to residence, to ban the harassment of free housing and anything else, to hire someone first, but the municipal militia in case they are prevented, that they must first prevent such occurrences and then sanction those who cause them. Therefore, divergences in jurisdiction are clear and there is no need to re-emphasise them. I won't answer any more replicas. I think the law is extremely well-conceived. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56917	Thank you. The word is "Verica Radet," according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56918	When someone wants to defend a proposal, they certainly find ways to convince that what's proposed is good, and good is not. This law, according to a colleague, is well-conceived, is not but the opposite of that and just in the case he was talking about shows that there is no role of the municipal police. How will the municipal militia determine the amount of noise and the amount of pollution, the amount of emissions? Could they, if we had a municipal militia, determine from what material those stinking buildings in New Belgrade were made of? Would the municipal militia say - this must be collapsing, or is it a job of experts, construction professions? When it comes to environmental pollution, it's also experts, environmentalists. Of course, all these jobs are done by public inspection, communal directors. It's already in the system. Now the question arises – were these people, these services, inspections of various that exist in local self-governments at the republican level doing anything in this meantime? Now, until the municipal militia arrived, what, nothing was done. Everything was going to be done the way a certain local self-government wanted to do. Where people had understanding, they allowed this poor girl who sold something there on the charts, literally to feed, not to ask municipal inspectors and communal directors to take them away, warn them, turn their attention to move a little bit, make some order so that they could approach the markets, etc. Where local self-government wanted to be these local kabadiahs, to show how barefoot they were, they sent communal inspectors there to kick those charts, to take away those goods, to live up, and then the municipal police showed up and they went to the point where they were seducing order on buses. How many fights in Belgrade's city traffic transport, caused by the municipal police? Before the municipal police, it wasn't. The man who controls the map comes in, if you want to give the ticket, if you don't want to, he tells the driver – stop at the first station, call the regular police, the cop comes in and finish the job. No, it's the communal officer coming in, he's being boastful, someone told him he could legitize, that he could beat, so he could come in there to the market, to tie up, to manipulate that man who died selling watermelons. So the practice has shown that we don't need the municipal police, especially we don't need the municipal militia, especially I can't have this kind of authority. We repeat, we have said multiple times, it was possible and it is possible to continue to form a group within the framework of the police. We keep saying, say, as a gendarme, and this would be called something different, and you'd be doing this kind of work in the sense that these officers are at the service and the communal directors and the communal inspectors and the market inspectors and these city traffic controllers, etc. That would be a normal role. You know what this is? This is some kind of parapolitan organ. You know, they have everything except guns, they can do anything like this regular police. It just can't be allowed.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56919	Thank you, colleague Radeta. The word has Minister Branko Ruzic. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56920	Thank you, Chairman. I just need to respond to what's been said here so far in the discussion in detail. I think it is essential that citizens understand that this Law on the Communist Militia does not give and is not written exclusively for the city of Belgrade, even on the contrary, the possibility of a municipal militia service being established in any of the 174 municipalities throughout Serbia is opened. Also, the the thesis that there is an usurpation of the functions of state authorities by units of local self-government, if two or more units of local self-government form a joint service of the municipal militia, simply does not stand, because it is the only original authority of the local self-government unit. As for the reference to the case in Presevo, and about the state symbols. I will remind you that even then, the Ministry of the Interior was competent when one monument was removed in Presevo, that there was also an administrative inspection of the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, that the raising of monuments and mention of the markings of the unit of local self-government according to the regulations of the Ministry of Culture and that what is provided for the municipal militia to work in this domain, and that it follows from this bill, the municipal militia will do. So it's not true that there's no one to deal with that other level of use of symbols. The point is certainly not to take charge of intelligence by the MUP, the point is to deploy the municipal militia service to the MUP. And that is the point of passing this law, and you know when the law has been passed, so for ten years now, how the law works. Also, what has been said here about the repression of the municipal militia, I think some of the MPs have also spoken of, that, according to that people, every grain has a weed, sometimes there are irregularities, but the data are very exact, in this case from Belgrade for 2018, someone here said there is no prevention, but only repression. There were 14,000 warnings, 123,000 actions. Of these 123,000 practices in 2018, we had only 16 cases of use of the means of coercion. Eight times physical strength, seven handcuffs and one bat. And now look at the discrepancy between what's said and what's real. It is the same as the case of members and members of the MUP. So they all have guns, but how many times they use them, God forbid, of course. So it's just that these things just don't stand. When we talk about that, or when you talk about the fact that, as far as I understand it, the municipal militia doesn't have to exist at all, because I can see from the amendment that most of the amendments to the text are that these members of the law are being deleted, I'm just going to remind you of the laws that are entrusted to certain affairs of the municipal police, now the militia, when this law is passed, I hope, above all, the Law of Public Order and Peace which clearly defines in its Articles 2 and 3 that these tasks are being carried out both by the MUP, both by the inspection and the municipal police. Also the Law on road safety, the Law on transport of road passengers, the Law on the Protection of Population against exposure to tobacco smoke, the Law on the Prevention of Violence and Misbehavior in Sports Events, and the Law on the Protection of Noise in the Environment. It's part of where business is entrusted to the municipal police. In any case, not to mention this thesis now, whether the name should have been different, I also spoke in the opening debate that they had an alternative, but that this is a much better term, more acceptable from the aspect of the traditional use of that name to an earlier period, and that the directorial service or God forbid, the directors, in order to be such, would have the sound of something that certainly does not conform to our tradition. I think that communal order and preventing boast and disorder is, above all, the essence of the adoption of this law, the essence of the organisation of the service of the municipal militia. I repeat, this is not an imperative, this is not the obligation of any unit of local self-government, this is the possibility that units of local self-government can use individually or collectively to do something that is in the interest of those who bear the sovereignty of these local communities. They are certainly citizens and citizens living in their territories. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56921	Thank you, Minister Rose. The Right to Replica has the Faith of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56922	The debate on this bill reminds me a lot of debates when various innovations have been introduced. We also spoke to the ministers at the time and when the municipal police were introduced, so when the notaries were introduced, when the perpetrators were introduced. And then the ministers also had their own story as Mr. Ruzic now, confident or at least they seem to be convinced of what they're trying to show us. We've always claimed, as we now claim what will happen when this really exists in real life. Then the ministers told us that this is what we talk about only to pin down on someone to get some political points, etc. And how things are now. Now ask the people in Serbia what they think of the notaries, what they think of the municipal police, what they think of the perpetrators, we ask what they think of the perpetrators, we run the campaign and the action, we collect the signatures with a petition to abolish public executioners, and believe me, when we deliver here in the fall you will be surprised how many people signed that petition. So we're saying what is reality and we're saying what we really know is happening in life, in the people, etc. The Minister's very fact that you said that there's a possibility that any local self-government can form a municipal militia says that this municipal militia doesn't need it. Because if there's anything he needs, then there's got to be in every local self-government, not to choose, he will, he won't. Either you need it or you don't need it. The primary school is needed in every place and is not asked by the president of the municipality and local leadership whether they will have a primary school. So what you're saying is that we're right that the municipal militia shouldn't be introduced.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56923	Thank you, colleague Radeta. The word has Nedjo Jovanovic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56924	I thank the chairman. We in the SPS parliamentary group do not have the ambition to prove the amendment promoter whether he is right or wrong, whether the amendment is complete, incomplete, sufficient, insufficient, comprehensive, non-discriminatory, excessive or necessary, but we also have an obligation to point out something that is very important, which is that the Law on the Community militia is in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Then I'm going to have to draw attention to something that's been going on so far, and extremely unfounded. Three principles exist when it comes to the involvement of the municipal militia. The principle of urgency, the principle of necessity and the principle of professional conduct. The urgency implies that it must react at a time which implies the moment of conducting an illegal action, an illegal action, because at that time that action is identified, and thus identifies the one who did the illegal action. Necessity, there's a moment when a citizen who's threatened calls on a municipal militiaman to react. He assesses that degree of risk and says, yes, it is necessary, I have to react, to protect. He doesn't measure the noise. He's not in charge of measuring noise, but if noise is such a nature that there's no need to even, absolutely without any reason to measure, it'd be pointless, not to use any harsher word, to protect the environment, so there's no one else to react except a communal police officer or a militiaman, however, not to be wordless. In the end, there are clear distinctions here, if we want to go to extremes, so the measures of repression can also be carried out by facial security agencies. Repression measures can also be carried out by human property security agencies, not to say it's pleonism, I just said faces. So basically, we here only have clearly defined powers of the municipal militia within which authorised officials are moving and who have a limited rate of repression and which is necessary as such, so that these powers can be exercised. That is why citizens can be sure that their needs, when it comes to the municipal militia, will be served in the way citizens ask. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56925	Thank you. The Right to Replica has the Faith of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56926	I'm sure every citizen in some kind of trouble, where he needs the help of an organ, will call the regulatory police. I'm sure he won't think of it if he's in some kind of situation where he needs that kind of help, he won't think of calling a communal police officer, or a communal militiaman, because I don't know what he's going to do except fight him along with someone he might have threatened. So much for that urgency. When it comes to measuring noise, says a colleague, not that militiaman, the communal one, will measure noise. What's he gonna do? He will come and assess whether something is loud or not. Well, what if he's deaf, what if he didn't put the camera listening? How he can come and say he won't measure the noise, and he'll assess whether he'll send someone to the judge for the offense to pay the fine because he realized it was too much noise. Here, all you're trying to make as an argument for, is actually an argument for what we're saying, which is that the municipal militia shouldn't be introduced.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56927	Thank you, colleague Radeta. The 10th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Petar Jojic with correction and MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. Does anyone want a word? The 10th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic and joint MPs Tatjana Macura, Vladimir Djuric, Aleksandar Stevanovic and Nemanja Radojevic. The word is Zoran Despotovic. Here you go, Mr. Despotovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56928	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment to the SRS refers to Article 10(1) point 5. The bill, where it is said to be deleted, with an explanation that the descriptive provision cannot be a legal norm, so the proposed point is inapplicable. The communal service exists in 18 cities. At work in eight cities has not been formed, and three reports have never been delivered. Of all cities, citizens in Belgrade and Novi Sad had such confidence in the municipal police and 60% of all citizens' applications are from these two cities. But it should be said that 62% of the communal officers out of the total number 649 are currently working in these two cities. Nine applications were filed throughout the city for two years, in just eight cities 37 disciplinary procedures were launched, and only three municipal police officers were suspended in one environment. Serbian radicals believe this service is not a necessary uniform, there is enough ID or badge to distinguish it from the police themselves. Instead of the municipal militia getting as close as possible to the citizens with the powers to protect them at all times. As Mr. Sarovic said in the principle debate, that you are making some kind of secret police, or militia, this bill of law. I can't do our laws without innovation, in this case they're sprayers with ardent means and means of recording, which is technically justified, but technique can't be the essence of the job. All in all, a small law of 60 members where a public debate was held for only 20 days. The main word in the debate in the review of the outstanding issues was the leading interest, as issues only concerning their status, organisational management and other issues dominate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56929	Thank you, Mr. Despotovic. He has the word, according to the amendment, Jelena Žarić Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56930	Thank you, Chairman. We see from the government's opinion that the amendment should be rejected, and I will try to explain why I agree with that. The amendment proposes that point 5 be deleted in Article 10(1) be deleted. Article 10 provides for the activities of the municipal militia and what is considered a municipal order, i.e. how the municipal order is maintained. The relationship between local self-government units and the municipal militia has also been prescribed. Point 5 refers to supporting the implementation of regulations to ensure the smooth conduct of life in the local self-government unit, the preservation of goods and the execution of other tasks from the jurisdiction of local self-government units. I think it would be illogical to delete point 5 if the proposal had the idea that the link between the units of local self-government and the municipal militia would be stronger, if we know that they should cooperate, exchange information and provide mutual assistance. So, the municipal militia is the one that will ensure that life in a municipality or a city is uninterrupted, is the one that protects citizens from haughtiness, introduces communal order, acts preventively on the one hand, but on the other hand refers to broken punishment. In all the above, I still think it would be good for this amendment to be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56931	Thank you, colleague Žarić Kovacevic. The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Orlic. Does anyone want a word? The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Tatjana Macura, Vladimir Djuric, Aleksandar Stevanovic and Nemanja Radojevic. Does anyone want a word? On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Mandic. Does anyone want a word? Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. National MP Marina Ristic submitted to the 15th amendment. National MP Miroslav Stankovic Đuričić submitted to the 16th amendment. National MP Nemanja Sarovic submitted to the 16th amendment. Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. The 18th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Tatjana Macura, Vladimir Djuric, Aleksandar Stevanovic and Nemanja Radojevic. The word is Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56932	Thank you, Chairman. On Article 18, paragraph 1, the amendment was submitted by Tatjan Macura, etc., who suggest that points three to eight be deleted. Of course, in the government's explanation, there are reasons that are on the side of the rejection of such an amendment, and I would like us to take a step by step from three to eight to actually see on practical examples what that would mean for the community militia itself and how terrible it would be if such an amendment were accepted. So point 3 applies to identity checks. When a person is found in a breach, his identity must be established, he shall verify the identity of the municipal militia officer when the law enters into force, he shall be made aware of the identity card or any other valid document issued by the competent authority. Point four is to bring it in. Therefore, when verifying the identity of the person found in the offence, if it is established that that person does not have a identity card on him, or any document issued by the competent authority, and that there is no person with him who will, under criminal responsibility, confirm his identity, the municipal militia officer will be able to access the arrival, or the identity of that person, will be established at the police station. Point 5, stop and check faces, objects and vehicles. For example, if the person operating the vehicle has committed an offence or is in the vehicle subject to an offence, the municipal militia officer shall have the right to stop the person or to examine the vehicle. Point 6, temporary confiscation of the subject. If, for example, a person finds himself in an out-of-peer sale or selling certain things on green surfaces without the approval of the competent authority, the municipal militia officer will be able to withdraw the cases of the infringement and, of course, act and issue a certificate of confiscation. Point 7, audio and video recording. This is about the newspaper, so the municipal militia will be able to make audio and video, on the one hand, so that there are no abuses, to make it easier to prove the violations, but on the other hand, and thus increase the responsibility of the municipal militants during their conduct. Point 8, use of coercion funds. We've been able to hear a lot here about how municipal police officers, that is, the next day municipal militiamen have been accessing the means of coercion, how the poor people who have been meeting with the municipal police, but we need to know on the other hand, and that it's not easy for them to act in all situations and that there have been cases that have been attacked by some persons who have been found in a violation. So, provided this amendment was adopted, what would the municipal militia do then? Then the municipal militia would remain at point 1) of the warnings, point 2) of the oral order, point 9) of the gathering of information, so that by collecting information from the municipal militia, it could carry out all its powers and that it had practically met the conditions for which it existed, i.e. to meet the expectations of both citizens and units of local self-government, which formed the municipal militia and which expressed the need for a certain number of municipal militants? They will have to have their powers to work and react. These powers will, of course, have to be achieved in accordance with the law, and only in this way can it be expected to maintain a communal order at a level that deserves a specific unit of local self-government. Therefore, I am of the opinion that this amendment should be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56933	Thank you, colleague Žarić Kovacevic. Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Here you go, colleague Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56934	There are different explanations here. One explanation is that there is no need to fear that the municipal militia has the authority to legislate, has the authority to record, has the power to bring in, has the power to apply force, doesn't need fear. There is a folk who burns on milk, and the yoghurt blows. We've all watched as municipal police in cities apply repression against passengers in city traffic, we've looked at other situations as well. One case is enough, Mr. Minister, just one case to be a warning. Look, it's a uniform formation called the municipal militia, they have a uniform, they're uniformly dressed, they've got a bat, they've got handcuffs, the means of coercion are sticks, they've got sprays that can be the same tool. Wait, what are we talking about here? We're talking about whether it's possible for an individual to abuse, so it's going to cause certain public reactions. Well, I guess we'd better erase any legal possibility for that. You know, when someone's unbalanced, it immediately affects the citizens. Let's say they're communal monks, that they're dressed, that they're not uniform, that they don't have those hats, that they don't have such a uniform, that they're green somewhere, that they're blue somewhere, so let's let the man say okay, and so far there's been a communal inspection, but we're talking about maltene militant some or militar some formations or police formations and we say -- there won't be any abuse. Look, huge funds are invested financially to put cameras in all urban environments, which is simpler, much more efficient. Then why are we giving additional authority to the municipal militia so that he can use force? In doing so – no, no, in the extreme case, it will be. No, there will be even if an individual, and there will be, and if anyone relys on this law, can apply that force. The one who's got his hand twisted, the one who's physically maimed, it's not worth it to him later to complain, to complain, it's not worth it to him. Here the only security law is regulated, it's that the police, the regular police, are doing it. They can stop, they can legitimize, but there's no physical contact. They can confiscate things, they can confiscate objects, but there's no physical contact. It's the police. It's like that Zivkovic that explains the "Sabela" action. Thirteen thousand more than Pinochet arrested and said – that was justified. When you warn him that a lot of individuals have suffered physically, he says – it is negligible compared to the total number. Well, it's important that one citizen of this Serbia is damaged. That's what this is about. Imagine when it's in larger urban environments, how it's going to be in smaller municipalities, where when it's wearing a uniform, it's hardly as if it can control it from not applying it to any private accounts, taking advantage of an opportunity there at the market, delivering a man and then saying, "Here, the law allows me to apply physical force in self-defense." It's all there. We need to think clearly about what these provisions in this Article 18th point 4, bring in, what that means. Is someone going to abuse that? If there is even a little doubt that someone will abuse it, it needs to be deleted, it needs to be defined differently. There's nothing he can trust, far from it. As far as this tradition is concerned, Minister, let me tell you, if you're looking at tradition, it's not a tradition for a militia to call it, it's called a gendarme. But the gendarmes, they are special units within the regular police force, which is the tradition of Serbia and the Serbian people. The militia was after the Eggs and what was after, above the Eggs, that was Bihac, I guess.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56935	Thank you, colleague Mircic. After the amendment, Nedjo Jovanovic reported. Here you go, colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56936	I thank you, Chairman. You know how, it's interesting that it bothers the existence of the municipal militia and the uniform of the municipal militia, and on the other hand they don't bother the unformed persons who are engaged, even employed, in a number of companies, I don't know how to securitize this, the ones, etc., who provide both property and persons. A number of companies are engaged in the security of money, and that money that's being raised from business banks, so it's being transported where the law provides for it. Those faces wear uniforms, even carry firearms, unlike communal cops who don't carry firearms, where the means they use are limited to repression. On the other hand, those same people who carry firearms have the right to maintain order where they are assigned to provide property. How do they maintain order? By providing the environment. So no one is allowed anywhere near where the money is taken, where even the protective cordons are actually placed, so they're rerouting citizens to go in some other direction. That's when the repression measures don't bother, but that's why they bother when it comes to the municipal militia. So these arches aren't clear enough here. Secondly, we don't want to court the citizens with political stories, let's talk professionally. The measures to bring and bring are not the same. The detention measure shall be carried out by authorised officials of the Ministry of the Interior. They also have the right to stay, and that is even the detentions that it implies if it is a criminal offence up to 48 hours, until it is brought before a judge for the previous trial. Here the measure of bringing is limited to only one case and one situation, which is to identify the identity of the perpetrator of the illegal action and nothing more. Everything else is in the jurisdiction of the regular authorities, so I'll call them the officials of the Ministry of the Interior. So these differences of jurisdiction need to be known. In addition, a municipal militiaman or a militiaman reacts as I just said, at the invitation, to determine a certain contradiction. But what? One who is not a criminal, one who does not need to be hired by a police officer, that is, the official person of the Ministry of the Interior. Well, he's not gonna call a communal police officer if something banal or benign happened, that someone deliberately threw oil out the front door of the apartment building so that the other guy would trip, pat, hurt, etc. In order not to trivialise and banalise this story, we know exactly how to distinguish the jurisdiction of the municipal militia from the jurisdiction of authorised officials of the Ministry of the Interior. It is precisely known when forced measures can be applied, and therefore these measures are defined by specific rules, the Rules on the operation of the municipal militia. There was a rule on the operation of the municipal police under the earlier applicable law and education of those involved in this business. So if a communal police officer has the right to file a misdemeanor order, a misapplication, then his right to bring a person in for identity checks and there can absolutely be nothing disputed and that's clean, let's say, legal and factual basis of this attitude, not propaganda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56937	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. The right to reply first has Milorad Mircic, then Djordje Vukadinovic by amendment. The word is Milorad Mircic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56938	There's one rule, it's the easiest to play the card of oblivion. A colleague here loses one sight of these security agencies and property. The Serbian Radical Party was clear there, warning that they were paramilitary, or parapolitan formations. We knew it was Montgomery and Montgomery had control over most of those agencies. At that time, we clearly suggested that possession of long pipes, with permission, would not rule out the possibility that one day it would be misused. When you add up the number of long pipes and the number of people available to security agencies, with the number of regular members of the military and the police, you'll come up with the simple fact that these maltenes are even. That's when we talked -- you keep an eye on what powers you're giving and who can do anything about it, exactly one part of it, citing this argument, but then the party that belonged to the colleague was from the heel vessels to pass the law, whether because they thought it was a good law, or for the reason behind that is, as I said, former Ambassador Montgomery, it's not a topic. We don't use cheap political tricks here to win citizens, but we warn of the possibility of abuse based on an undefined precise law. Do we know what that means? Tomorrow Montgomery and his associates all those agencies, members of those agencies, can engage, God forbid, in something that's against this country. They own long pipes, they own weapons, and who says that tomorrow some local powermaker, like he was in charge of the city of Belgrade, and from some vanity, here's how this municipal police, if the public knew, was visiting the mayor of New York, was received by the then mayor of Belgrade, of course, so as not to have a clear vanity, he heard that he had the local police, that the sheriff, and he founded himself the municipal police. What was their assignment at first? Turning your hands on the back of those who didn't pay for the ticket. What was their role until the end of his term? Well, the same role, only one newspaper was introduced, and that's Bus Plus.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56939	Thank you, colleague Mircic. By amendment, Gjorge Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56940	Thank you. I had no intention of reporting, but I think that around this member, the essence of this law, the whole law, and the ideas, the controversy and the dilemma that exist in terms of the introduction, or the system of municipal militia. As far as these security agencies are concerned, which are mentioned, I also have all the dilemmas and reservations and suspicions and I think they'll have to be here sooner or later. So, it's not, it can't be, but the argument would be that we are now mild to this law on the municipal militia, because we have a problem of another kind or a potential problem when it comes to, I would say, chaos or irregularities in the sphere of these private security agencies. As I said, I will also be glad that this or some other government in this regard tries to impose order, bearing in mind some dilemmas and doubts that a colleague here has mentioned for a moment. But when it comes to the municipal militia itself, this member and this amendment, I really think that's where the powers are listed. The authorities of the municipal militia are listed here, and you can see, as I said, the essence of the problem. What's the point of the problem, in my opinion, and not just for me, although that's what it was about, but not enough words? One almost imminent overlap of jurisdiction. So it's a matter of jurisdiction. Yes, and fellow Jovanovic said that there is a clear distinction to be introduced here, but in practice there is no distinction, there has never been one so far, I fear there will be even less in the future. So it simply intertwines jurisdiction, from who calls, who calls, who calls, who intervenes, and why intervenes, with all the best of will, without doubting the good will and good intentions of the promoter. I really think, maybe it was better to cut this list of jurisdiction, really on, just quoting: warning, oral order, I would add – checking identity and collecting information. For all this between, bringing... And it's incarcerated, practically disputable, and it can become disputable. So, from bringing, stopping, examining and face objects and vehicles, subtracting these objects. Well, my people, that's something that's basically related to police work, regular police, that's what someone said here, everyone before then will call the police, even when you don't need to, especially if you have two unbalanced information. That's two unbalanced information. I agree they only have IDs, at least they don't have uniforms and that would be better. This is how you're going to create parallelism, in fact, you're going to create it, in practice, even if you don't intend to do that kind of parallelism and duality. Not to mention the possible abuses, not to mention that in some parts, I don't even think so much about Belgrade, New now, but some possibilities, it really becomes some kind of local paramilitary of those who are currently in power in that community, especially me, the dubious, disputable and problematic introduction of the possibilities of different uniforms, from middle to middle, from community to community, and then the possibility of having a couple of municipalities that they can have a common militia communal. Well, what's that gonna look like, Mr. Rose? What will it look like when, for example, some municipalities in the north of Vojvodina group, together, make their communal militia with similar, i.e. the same color, with the same markings? I mean, of course it's legitimate, but I mean it's a bad picture, even if there's no abuse, it's a bad picture in itself. So it's better if they're not uniform, I don't mind having some means of protection and just protection, I'm not against being completely powerless clay pigeons. The fact is both. Once the municipal police were the victim and target of attacks and aggression, and that's true, but they were once actors of excessive aggression against citizens for non-existent or minor violations. With that, you might think, really, by cutting down the powers you get more than you want and getting more than you want, not by expanding powers by making them almost intertwined with this regular militia, or police. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56941	Thank you, colleague Vukadinovic. The word is Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56942	Thank you, Chairman. Gilas will probably think the previous speaker just criticized him. Why am I saying this? The law on the municipal police is not something that has happened yesterday in Serbia, the Law on the Communist Police was passed ten years ago, we did not bring it, brought by your friends, your friends headed by Dragan Gilas. But, you know how, the chairman, some of them here in this room of ten this morning, some of them came to work at ten, some of them were ten because they had meetings of the assembly boards, and some of them came to work at three o'clock, whether after lunch and then came here and held some sermons that had nothing to do with us. He says it's the intertwination of jurisdiction. There's no overlapping jurisdiction. So it's true and this law determines what is whose jurisdiction in that sense, what will be the jurisdiction of the municipal militia, and what will be the other authorities. If there were any intertwinations, then these are intertwinations under the old law, the law passed by your friend Dragan Gilas. So, I honestly advise you not to criticise the work of Dragan Gilas, you know he may resent you, in your coalition there may be a misunderstanding, there may even be some consensus. I give you this, highly well-intentioned advice. So, when it comes to the powers themselves, I'd like to stay here for a while. So, according to the old law, the powers we had listened to earlier were determined. And when it comes to facial examination and when it comes to temporary confiscation of the case and so on. So it won't be that SNS is creating some kind of extra repression. I want citizens to make such remarks completely unfounded, and we have talked about it several times in principle, regardless of any attempts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56943	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56944	I thank you, Chairman. All the time I've been trying to get rid of that banalization and trivialization, but ultimately, because of citizens, man has to explain again what every elementically written citizen, or one who has a common culture, should be clear. It is impossible, dear ministers, that if a municipal officer or militiaman is now using certain means of repression under the new law to carry out his task adequately. That's impossible. It's impossible for him to find, identify the unsub of the illegal act and say, "Now wait here, wait, don't move, don't move, and I'll call the police, the police will come and bring you in." Yeah, he's gonna be waiting. He's gonna wait and he's gonna respect the authority of orders very often and say, okay, I'm not gonna move from here. What if this same municipal militiaman is attacked in the performance of his duties and work assignments? Is he allowed to use what the law allows him to use, spray, and bat? Of course he can. Can it be used to remove danger from others? Of course he can. Can he use that to protect others? Of course he can. That's what we should all do. I purposely pointed out criminal-legal institutes, necessary defenses and extreme necessity. It's something that's the duty of every citizen, not just a communal militiaman. Therefore, let us not be contradictory, as was the speaker who discussed before his colleagues Markovic, that there are differences in jurisdiction when it comes to the formal part of the law, but apparently there is no Kobajagi in practice. If it does not exist in practice, then someone who is in charge of the municipal police will react, so whoever oversteps these powers and abuses will be sanctioned, criminal or criminal charges filed against him, someone will be responsible for abuse of official office, and they will be wised up and order will be introduced into the municipal militia. What's so controversial about that? Therefore, there are no here, apart from political and day-to-day political upheavals, strong enough arguments that this law could be unthinked and doubted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56945	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. Mr. Gjorge Vukadinovic has his word on the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56946	Mr. Markovic, I don't give up on my friends, but it doesn't mean I agree with them in every way and every point. Here I speak for myself and what I think is of benefit to the citizens of this country, regardless of who they voted for and how they voted. It doesn't matter who introduced this municipal militia and the police. It could be important in some pre-election campaign. Here we look to make this law better or to reduce the risk of abuse. That's my intensity. Also, in that light, it's completely irrelevant to who, as well as where he sits. No one has to sit here if they don't, and it's especially masochistic to sit here to be insulted. I'm not saying that you weren't correct with a little bit of an adventurous. It's okay, it's all over the border, but I'm also here, and often my colleagues, were really the subject of the worst insults against which it's illogical to go into that space and sit with those people. Anyway, I'm saying, it doesn't apply to you right now, I mean that the meaning of my intensity was extremely well-intentioned. He wasn't insulting to the minister, he was being kind. Let's see how things can be avoided. Realistically, abuses exist. There may be as few as possible. What's the problem with that and later... Let the law be passed. I'm simply suggesting that you think about maybe eliminating the uniform, so that it stays only at the level of legitimacy, for example. Or to cut these powers a little bit just to avoid intertwining with these jurisdictions of the regular police. You know, on paper often something sounds good, and in practice it's a little different, as it was. I'm saying that whoever introduced the law and who continued to enforce it, that the citizens are not interested, except perhaps in a pre-election campaign, and then not excessively, so this suggestion, as well as this intervention... So it's very specific. We can argue generally who's to blame for the current situation and who's hanging out with and at what level, but it'll take us far away. The point is that I would, I repeat and end this, empowerment of the municipal militia, so I'm not suggesting an abolition as colleagues, maybe they're right, but I think it's radical, I believe there are measures and things where there really may be unnecessary quotes, which would say regular police, and in that sense we need this kind of service, the redistribution. Why regular? Why not the director's office, by the way, Mr. Minister? Reding drags too much into the western language variant or in Croatian – redistribution service. Either way, call them whatever you want, so the warning business, the oral order, the identity checks, and the possible gathering of information would be enough, in my opinion, to separate itself from the regular police work, and yet we have people who deal with these small, but for the life of a community of important jobs, without many possibilities of abuse and over-authorization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56947	Thank you, colleague Vukadinovic. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56948	Thank you, Chairman. I am pleased that the previous speaker has admitted not to give up Gilas and the rest of the Alliance for Serbia. You know, he kind of demonstrates his own size. Why the size? Because Gilas and you are his friends from the Alliance for Serbia for days... You know, it was a pain to watch it and read it. For days, he was dragged around Twitter in the most terrifying and brutal way when he entered the Assembly Hall to vote for Tijana's law. It's just that it's been so degutant and looking at it from the side and I was sorry about it at one point. On the other hand, it remains unclear, he says he speaks for himself, but I would like to remind him that he is here as deputy president of a parliamentary group. If I'm not mistaken, it's the New Serbia parliamentary group, the Serbian Rescue Movement. Now, who is actually doing this parliamentary group, is it Velja Ilic, New Serbia, whether it is Vuk Jeremic, who will determine it more. I'm afraid even the police may not be able to determine exactly what it is, but I want to warn him well again that Gilas is actively breaking and breaking up various political parties these days. So, as the party at the given moment does not respond, it is so completely torn apart. There's a disfellowshipping and there's a lot of stuff, so I just want to warn him that if he keeps criticizing him, and he's constantly criticizing him when he criticises some legal solutions, maybe he'll break up his MP club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56949	Thank you, colleague Markovic. Right on line, MP Gjorge Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56950	Comrade Markovic, I thank you for your concern for my personal and political destiny, but I think it is excessive and unnecessary, although it is touching and commendable. I have to pay you back both a compliment and a concern. I too often find it uncomfortable and sometimes I feel sorry for myself when I watched my fellow ruling majority vote for proposals they are not sure about themselves and do not want to stand personally and intimately behind these proposals, how they submit amendments that most or a good part of them also know are phantom and, after all, they have now given up on the proposals submitted by their government and their ministers just to take up space and deny the opposition's space to be critical. I too have often regretted the MPs of the ruling majority, but each one carries his cross and his responsibility for his friends and for his political elections, and every MP here speaks or should speak for himself, of course within one context that is close to the club, strangers or those with whom he works and sits here in the Assembly. My attitudes are in that sense close, but we're not a bunch of like-minded people who think the same thing. As for other things, I say, we can discuss it elsewhere, and we can continue here. So the point is, my suggestions are well-intentioned. It's about the municipal police law. I've tried to make him better, and these cute or less likable jokes and illusions about who's sorry and who cares about who we leave behind for another time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56951	Thank you, colleague Vukadinovic. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56952	I thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. It is not the first time Mr. Vukadinovic has violated the Rules of Procedure, I am specifically referring to Article 107. He obviously doesn't know some basic principles of parliamentary democracy. He cannot be the deputy president of a parliamentary group called New Serbia - the Movement for Rescue of Serbia, and say he speaks exclusively on his own behalf. So, he says, no doubt, on behalf of New Serbia, Velimir Ilic, since Velimir Ilic is president of New Serbia. It remains to be answered by Mr Vukadinovic who is the president of the Serbian Rescue Movement? I don't know who the president of that movement is, but it would be good for Mr. Vukadinovic to answer that question. In any case, he is here as deputy president of a parliamentary group. So Velimir Ilic's MP groups plus something that I don't know exactly what it is or who the president is. But here's Mr. Vukadinovic, so I guess he'll be able to answer that question. Otherwise, Mr. Vukadinović does it regularly, because whenever he comes into some seal, whenever he sees one of his friends, such as Gilas, Bastac, Jeremic, Bosko Obradovica, do something stupid, he tries to distance himself from them and say - well, but I have nothing to do with them, I am here as an independent MP and speak for myself. You know, Mr. Vukadinovic, I'm the chairman of the Administrative Committee. I've got a little bit of a conscience now. I have signed with you the decision that you are a full-time MP in the National Assembly and that you have a certain coefficient for calculating the salary as deputy president of a parliamentary group. So either you're going to have to give up that coefficient or pay it, or you're going to have to explain to us whose attitudes you really represent in this assembly. So I understand that you represent the views of New Serbia and Velimir Ilic, who, however, in the past few weeks is more or less constantly in a semi-alcoholic or absolutely alcoholic state and to tell us who the President of the Serbian Rescue Movement is? I think it would be very interesting for the citizens of Serbia. Anyway, you can't perform on your own, because you're the vice president and you're getting paid in the National Assembly as deputy president of the parliamentary group. That's what Serbian citizens should know, because Serbian citizens are paying you. You were here on the escapade when someone sits, when they go into the O.R., so it's a little lame for you, it's stupid for us to be here at 10 o'clock, we'd better come by at 15 o'clock, when I have a nice lunch, etc., but you're getting paid to sit in the National Assembly at work and all that time while the Assembly's working. That's what Serbian citizens should know. Like all your other colleagues who, as you say, selectively boycott the National Assembly sessions, but do not boycott parliamentary delegations, you do not boycott the salary. I haven't heard of any of you who said - I won't take the salary. (President: Time.) ) You do not boycott a congregation restaurant.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56953	Thank you. Dr. Martinovic, I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure. There will be opportunities for Gjorge Vukadinovic to plead, but first I must give the right to the replica. The word is Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56954	Thank you, Chairman. As the head of our parliamentary group said earlier, we remained deprived of the answers and I hope we get them, whose interests are actually represented by the previous speaker. When I say the previous speaker, I don't mean, of course, Mr. Martinovic, but the speaker before him. Is it the Wolf of Jeremiah? Maybe he's moving on and representing Patrick Ho's direct interests? Who's gonna know now? I expect answers. However, what I have actually come across and what has bothered me most is that this speaker said that he is sorry when he looks at certain MPs, and he thinks of us, MPs of the ruling majority, as we voted in favour of some laws. Well, Mr. Vukadinovic, I am pleased to have voted for Tijana's law as a National MP of the Serbian Progressive Party, along with coalition MPs. I am honored and glad we voted in favour of the Kosovo and Metohija Report. I am pleased and proud to have voted in favour of many good laws, among other things, thanks to Mr Martinovic, the Swiss Law, and many other important laws for Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56955	Right on line, MP Gjorge Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56956	Thank you. It's actually two replicas now, but anyway. So, Mr. Markovic, as far as Tiana's law is concerned, I'm glad I came and I voted and I have no regrets, nor do I think I was wrong. I think some of my colleagues made a mistake, but for their own reasons. In that sense, I make the difference between your harsh, little-sharp, yet correct exposure and this masculine attack by my fellow Martinovic, who is not the first time, who is similar to his brother by sitting formally in the second parliamentary group, who likes to get under the cover of business advertising, and citizens need to know that the Rules of Procedure has no replica, and then asks questions which, in fact, I, if I will not also break the Rules of Procedure, cannot answer, so ask these rhetorical and harsh questions. I answer to my colleague Markovic. So, what I'm saying is that it's painful, it's embarrassing, it's an abuse of a Rules of Procedure that, here now in a small, and often in a large, demonstration. As a result, the European Commission's report also called and directly targeted the situation in the Assembly, and therefore the president has taken some steps in the Assembly, to come to the meeting, these remarks by the European Commission, and therefore, in a formal sense, some sessions are now being scheduled differently and more taken into account both the Rules of Procedure and the good parliamentary customs. Unfortunately, in the reflection, in the manner in which individual MPs appear, there is obviously no change. So, I represent, and if he doesn't know what parliamentary life is and what it means to be Parliamentarians, I can explain. So, the MP always votes on his own behalf, but of course he represents the views of his parliamentary group in which it is co-ordinated and discussed. We are one flexible group, where the differences and specificities of each of us are respected... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56957	Thank you. Right on line, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56958	First, please, I know it's not common, but to provide one coffee for George Vukadinovic, I don't think he's had much sleep since he says I have a brother in another MP group. I, Mr. Vukadinovic, have no brother or sister, so please provide one coffee. The gentleman had a good lunch, but he didn't seem to be able to have a cup of coffee, so he could wake up and come to his senses. Mr. Vukadinovic, here I am now reporting from a replica, so you can now answer, not to me, but to the citizens of Serbia. So I understand that you represent Velimir Ilic's policy. Otherwise, anyone who enters YouTube can see that Velimir Ilic almost speaks to Serbian citizens every day and sits next to him, was once, long forgotten, seen now as a political resurrection, Mirko Jovic. Looks like it's your new political idol now. So, I understand that you represent Velimir Ilic, but I don't understand what it is to save Serbia, from whom you save Serbia, and who's the president of that movement? It would be good for you to explain that to the citizens of Serbia, because you are receiving a salary as vice president. So your salary is higher because you're the deputy president of the parliamentary group. And it would be even bigger if you were the president of the parliamentary group. Maybe one day you will be. But in any case, you have a higher salary than there is, conditionally speaking, an ordinary MP. As far as the amendments you've been talking about, you don't know the Rules of Procedure as a matter of fact. It's clear that your not coming to the Federal Assembly isn't... (President: Bringing the end. )......................................................................................................... In fact, the desire to boycott. You're just like the ones from this "yellow company" I think, more lazy man than you intend anything to... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56959	Thank you, colleague Martinovic. Right on line, MP Gjorge Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56960	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here, now colleague Martinovic criticises you for interrupting him on time. So, one more time. You see, Mr. Martinovic, you cannot speak without violating the Rules of Procedure and good practices of simply parliamentaryism. In every replica, in every one of your interventions, even when you don't notice, I'm used to it here, I'm not a fool not to see what you're doing in different ways, you and a few of your colleagues. So this kind of ad hoc, ad hoc arguments, this primitive argument of the type – you were having lunch. No, I didn't have lunch, Mr. Martinovic, and even if I did, what's the problem? No, I haven't been in this restaurant in six months just because of your inappropriate, tasteless and degradable, per parliament-degrading arguments, the guy eats kebabs, etc. I've never been able to tell you that. I didn't make it, now I'm telling you in public - it's inappropriate. You're degraded this House, all MPs talking about these little chivalrous girls. I've never eaten kebabs. What difference does it make if I ate them? I haven't been in that restaurant in six months. What difference does it make if I did every day? But you like to drag it through. You don't have the arguments, so that's what makes it a joke. Let me answer that question, as to who I represent. The MP, and therefore, among other things, and the owner of the mandate, represents his views, making sure that they are close to the views of his partners, the people he is sitting with at the MP's club. I have this kind of similarity of attitudes, and I vote on my conscience. That's what we agreed from the beginning when we formed the group. I am not an MP or, I do not know, spokeswoman of Velimir Ilic's views, as you also tend to say, but one MP of Velimir Ilic's party and the only one you did not take away, cleaned up, picked up when he changed sides, when he left and left the ruling majority for his reasons.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56961	You're bringing the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56962	So, one MP makes up our parliamentary group and nothing more than that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56963	Right on line, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56964	Okay, okay, you didn't have lunch. You may have had lunch somewhere else, but that wasn't right now. But, I ask you, since you insist on respecting European principles and since you say that the European Commission reportedly has put us in line, that we do not tolerate amendments, that we do not act in a way that you do not think is appropriate, etc., please tell me, is it possible in the European Parliament or in any other EU Member State Parliament to sit people who say – I speak for myself, and it does not matter that I am the deputy president of a parliamentary group called New Serbia – the Movement for the Rescue of Serbia? Where is it in the European Parliament, Mr Vukadinovic? In what European country is it? There's nowhere to go. That's what you're doing here in Serbia, making us think about how we SNS behave against some European principles. No, you're acting against European principles. Here, I'm asking you Serbian now, I don't care if you had lunch or didn't have lunch, we'll get you a sandwich on the cost of the MP's group, if you haven't had lunch, at least we have as many sandwiches as you want, about that video, but you tell me one much more serious thing, that we finally take off our masks and stop playing people who fell off Mars and who don't know where they are. You are the deputy president of the New Serbia parliamentary group, so you represent Velimir Ilic and Mirko Jovic and others who sits with them at those YouTube press conferences, but tell me what the problem is to tell me – who is, who is the Movement for the Rescue of Serbia and who is the president of this movement and what is the Serbian Rescue Movement behind? That's what Serbian citizens are interested in. Well, the citizens of Serbia are paying you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56965	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56966	You don't have to answer to me, tell the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56967	Thank you, colleague Martinovic. The word has the People's MP Gjorge Vukadinovic, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56968	You're doing the same thing again, of course. In the same way, you insult the MPs, not me personally, but also the dignity of this home, making these foolish jokes about sandwiches, whether for lunch or not. Mr. Martinović, I can, therefore, be happy to give up on your behalf or for humanitarian purposes, but, here, perhaps for you, as I see you having a weak lunch and a lot of boasting about how everyone else is having lunch, on your behalf of that supplement that I get as deputy head of Parliament. So it's, that citizens know the amount, I don't know exactly, between 1,000 and 2,000 dinars per month. It's about that amount. So, we've heard so much here, heard by Mr. Martinovic, I don't like to talk about ministers, where there were many grounds to talk about both the material state and things or the President of the Republic or the Prime Minister. I didn't get into those things, because I don't understand myself too much. But you've insisted here five times on that difference, which is the addition I'm getting as deputy head of Parliament. You know, I didn't ask how many of your receipts, on which grounds you get your four or five receipts, although that's what the public was talking about, and how they were buzzing. It's not 1,000, 2,000 dinars, it's hundreds or two hundred or three hundred thousand dinars, Mr. Martinovic. So that's the kind of behavior we're cutting, you're cutting the branch we're sitting on. We're talking about a restaurant, we're talking about kebabs, we're talking about sandwiches. In fact, contribute to the fact that all together, and this house as a whole, are being demoted. As far as the name goes, the parliamentary group can have whatever name they want, as agreed to give it. So it doesn't necessarily mean that it's a real political organization, they can call themselves a fan club, I don't know, nature, bird selves, etc., there's a reason why it's called that. I think that the work of both my smallties and my colleagues from the Parliament club in general contributes and represents a contribution to normalisation and, in that sense, to saving Serbia, a small, modest contribution, you are great, you make bigger, if you can give it. But don't let us destroy this little dignity of parliament that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56969	Right on line, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56970	First of all, Mr Martinovic, since you have been constantly referring to the European Commission's report in the last few weeks, let me tell you one thing. As dressed as you are now, you could not enter the European Parliament. It's much more important than whether you had lunch, whether you ate kevapee, etc. The second thing, in the European Parliament, you couldn't receive any salary, no allowance, no other financial compensation, and say that you're the deputy president of a parliamentary group made up of two political organisations, for one thing I understand what it is, New Serbia knows what it is, the Serbian Rescue Movement, I don't know what it is, and I don't know who the president is. So something like that in the European Parliament is not possible. Instead of salting our minds about this European Commission's famous report on the state of the Serbian parliament, it would be good to see the functioning of the European Parliament and how the EU's parliaments function. As you are dressed today, and don't take this as an insult, so Velimir Ilic came here at one session at a time. I remember being an MP along with some colleagues sitting here across from me. So, a man came in, the summer time was up, we were discussing Kosovo and Metohija, he came under the tent, a flood, to talk about Kosovo and Metohija, about his great care for Kosovo and Metohija, without ties, broken down, with a shirt outside his pants, etc. So in the European Parliament, you couldn't go in dressed like that first. Secondly, I see you've inherited a style of dress from Velimir Ilic, and your political mind is about there somewhere on his level. (President: Bringing the end. I'm done, Mr. Arsic. It would be good the next time Sam Fabrizio comes to parliament, with all due respect to the organisation and institution he represents, to show up as you are and to tell him how you behave and to ask him – Mr Fabrizio, in which European state is it possible that I am the deputy president of the New Serbia-Movement Group for the Rescue of Serbia, but it has nothing to do with New Serbia, or the Serbian Rescue Movement? We just call ourselves that, actually we represent who knows what.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56971	Thank you. Right on line, MP Gjorge Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56972	Thank you. Just to draw attention to Mr. Martinovic speaking for two minutes and 50 seconds. Anyway, Mr. Martinovic, it's the same part of your repertoire. I'm dressed decently, given the age of year. There are people here in the O.R. right now who are dressed the same way or more, as you might say, more comfortable than me, you didn't warn any of them. You're also the party you belonged to in this house in athletic T-shirts, not short-sleeve shirts. You used to come here anyway, not only when you were wearing, I don't know, some pictures or passwords on those shirts, but like this. I don't know about you personally, I'm talking about your boss, your current and former boss. As for the European Parliament and practice, when and if the European Commission, Sam Fabrizzi and the others protest, submit a note and mention in their report an improper dress of MPs in parliament, I will be happy to correct that part. I think I dress very politely and correctly, and this isn't a fashion runway. It's not enough to wear a tie and a jacket and a purse and a bow, so be a gentleman man and a gentleman messenger. That, unfortunately, is not done by wardrobe and clothing, Mr. Martinovic. So, for you directly and for your practice in parliament, the European institutions reacted directly. To my practice, to my behavior, not to my speech. When they do, I'll, I say, adapt to it. I appeal to you, if you care, and you need to care, for the reputation of this home, because you're most of this home, you're these things and these kind of statements and these kind of attacks, because these are still attacks, that we don't lie, sometimes they're a little tighter, sometimes a little less twisted, to someone who's obviously constructive, and most of your people know that it's constructive, and I think it's worth voting independently of who's proposing... I was also in Tijana's law when he was proposed by the opposition and colleagues on the right of me and when you took him over, the parliamentary majority, I also voted in favour of this law and I do not regret it, as well as the formation of the Commission for the Assessment of the effects of the bombing, i.e. NATO aggression in 1999 and some other and third things. So, I don't think we're doing it minus, I think it's me plus.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56973	Bring the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56974	I've brought him in, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56975	The word has the People's MP Aleksandar Martinovic, right to replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56976	You cannot answer us, Mr Vukadinovic, what is the Movement for the Rescue of Serbia and who is the President of the Serbian Rescue Movement, as it is part of your name as a parliamentary group. Unlike you, Mr. Vukadinovicu, who speaks bird language and who do not have the courage to mention someone's name, I have passed a slightly different political school. I never, nor my colleagues, then from the SRS, showed up in an athlete's t-shirt. I hope you know what an athlete T-shirt is. Maybe you're wearing it, I don't know. So, we wore short sleeve T-shirts with Vojislav Seselj's character as a sign of protest over the injustice and violation of human and procedural rights that were happening to him in The Hague tribunal. It's for the sake of historical truth. I once appeared here in the National Assembly, and now I see that with my colleagues it's a little liberalized, without a tie because it was a hell of a heat. Filip Stojanovic had to find me a tie, any tie, right, Philippe, and put it on me. It's simply a code of conduct that was valid at the time. There is something much more important, Mr. Vukadinovic, than how we are dressed. You are unable to answer my question – is it possible in the European Parliament that the parliamentary group has an appropriate name and that its deputy president appears in that same parliament and says – it does not matter at all what we call ourselves, I represent myself, I speak for myself, and we have given a name just because the parliamentary group has to be properly called? So we're talking about the essence here. You have absolutely trampled the basic principles of parliamentary democracy, you are acting contrary to what the European Commission has said, because the European Commission is probably the heritage of tradition, among other things, from the European Parliament, and I am asking you – is there a possible practice in the European Parliament that you and your colleagues who are not here today and months ago?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56977	Thank you. (Nedjo Jovanovic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) The word has a People's MP, Neđo Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56978	I thank you, Chairman. I'm advertising Article 106. The Rules of Procedure of the Republika Srpska Assembly for two reasons. The first reason that Mr. Vukadinovic will certainly not answer his colleague Alexander Martinovic's questions, as he would have caused himself great adverse consequences in a political sense, if he had said anything sincerely. So, anyway, we're not gonna hear what's supposed to be heard. The second reason for advertising the Rules of Procedure is that it is precisely this deviation from the agenda that has been caused by counterpart Vukadinovic, given that he allegedly pointed to problems in the law we are discussing today. For God's sake, it's that we have disagreements today, or contradictions in jurisdiction, and we didn't have them in the previous Law of the Police which has now passed the already non-existent opposition, and that part of the opposition, when I say the absence, which does not come to the plenary session anyway, when it comes to, at least, those most important points of the agenda, of fundamental importance to the lives of citizens. I would ask you, since I do not expect anything honestly, anything that will help citizens to finally create a clear picture in their eyes, both about a party that exists and about a party that does not exist or may exist, and what a colleague Martinovic pointed out, that we should return to the agenda and continue on the agenda points as we started. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56979	Thanks, buddy. You know I have to give a replica to every MP. If a person declares himself during his discussion, as specified in the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in voting day about your injury to the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) The word has the People's MP George Komlenski, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56980	Thank you, Chairman. You've hurt your ankle. 27 and 107, allowing the discussion to continue without interrupting Mr. Vukadinovic, who here insulted all MPs and this house, saying that only if Mr. Fabrizio found out what he admitted, that he was dressed rudely, that he would then dress politely. He clearly disrespected you as the chairman and this home, because it is simply absolutely not allowed to speak and behave in such a way in this home. By his own, meaning, he's not decently dressed, but he doesn't care at all, unless Mr. Fabrizio in his report finds that in his report, because he said that at that moment he would correct his way of dressing, and possibly behavior in this home. I agree with counterpart Nedjo Jovanovic to answer my questions asked by Mr Martinovic, and also by Serbian citizens, we will not get. There may be some easier questions, since he said we voted here for laws against which we are intimate. I would just like to hear who is who intimately votes for the party he belongs to, the group he belongs to, who is intimately behind them, and most Serbian citizens would be interested in telling us what is the winning combination of the lottery, because he is one of the few who managed to win the lottery without paying the ticket? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56981	Also, colleague Komlensky, I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure. I think the way to dress is also a way to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. However, there is no mechanism by which I could use a national MP, because he does not dress properly, not to allow him to attend the hall, but I do know from my experience that each of us is decided by the citizens of the Republic of Serbia in the elections, and also by how we discuss, how we behave, and also by the way we dress. Do you want the National Assembly to plead? No, I don't. Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56982	Turns out it's not bad that I started this series of questions, but I also have to correct my colleague Jovanovic and others. I wasn't the one who got off the subject, I was just sticking to the topic and the topic of the municipal police. Not for reasons I consider relevant, as well as a series of my colleagues on the left who also made objections to that law. The problem is that some representatives of the congregation's majority here can't stand it when I say it or someone they consider potentially, I don't know why, a dangerous opponent. If I am so harmless and insignificant and minor, so that you work so hard and don't look at your colleagues, you get up your ten, or five, six, seven to replicate, pull, and wave to the Rules of Procedure. Who is politically minor we can see and we will see in the next elections, when there are, and even better we would see if the election laws changed, if they were to vote for the name, Mr. Martinovic and the others whom I do not want to mention the name, so that they in their party try for themselves or for themselves in their own name, and see who gets how many votes, not to hide behind the character and part of the president of their present one. Speaking of which, Mr. Martinovic, when you mention this pointless theme of dress, so I came in my shirt for the first time today, I don't think it's rude in any way at all, but it's true here. He says - the MP admitted that he was rude only if Saint Fabrizzi told him, therefore, they were falsified directly, five minutes ago. How do you fake opinions and things when they're harder to determine? I'm not talking about these pointless illusions that I don't want to talk about. But, Mr. Martinovic, your president, and then he thought and knew it was rude, so everyone else was, I remember that picture well, everyone else was in short sleeve T-shirts, he was in long-sleeve shirt, I guess, wanting it to look less rude. So he thought it was rude, too. Don't be a double archeologist, don't be a bigger Catholic than the Pope, don't treat a parliamentary lady here when you're breaking the basic rules of parliamentaryism, and for that they've ripped your ears off, the European Commission's report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56983	Right on the replica, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56984	Mr. Vukadinovicu, I will ignore everything, whether you had lunch or not, whether you were led by Velimir Ilic, who is a movement to save Serbia, I am no longer interested in it, but I want to show for the sake of the citizens of Serbia how much you really respect them. You are in the "Time" list, says no confusion, is authored by the MP and editor of the new Serbian political thought. I guess that's you, isn't it? Mr Vukadinović, in fact, would have made fun of Alexander Vukic, made fun of the sick citizens he unfortunately has in Serbia in large numbers, and then invented a conversation about how his researchers called one woman in Vranje and wrote like this, everyone can check out the list “Time” says – Vranje, woman in brackets 55, means 55 years - everything depends on Vulić, we support him. Vulic who? Well, this is our president. You mean Wolfie? Well, yeah, well, here's what we were looking at on "Pink," said I was a fan of him. What do you think of Gilas? Well, that's just an attack on our Vulic, and we're not for him at all. You mean the wolf attack? Well, yes, Wolfie. You know, and now watch what cynicism, which mocking a sick woman -- so that Wolfie, you know, I had a slight stroke in my head, so maybe I'm a little wrong, but I'm telling you that everyone here in the machine, and you know who lives in the moss, so much for respecting the rights of the national minorities, but I'm telling you that we all here in the wave support Vulic. Shame on you, Mr. Vukadinovic. Lunches, not lunches, coming in pajamas, not coming, making fun of the sick citizens of Serbia in all of this democratic, European, most European weekly "Time".
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56985	Thank you. Right on line, MP Djordje Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56986	I can thank Mr. Martinovic for quoting and promoting part of my text, a large extensive text on five pages from the weekly "Time" a month or two ago. (Alexander Martinovic: Here, this is your five-page text, with all the tables. ) It's a piece of text. So, it's nice that you read, it's nice to educate yourself, but it's not nice and it's talking about the manner of this government and this congregational majority, to tear out the context that you're bad and false, I'd say you're misrepresenting, no one is mocking anyone, I'm just representing, illustrating opinions, views of different citizens and voters. This is your voter, Mr. Martinovic, who is ashamed of you and disown him, why do you deny him? She was waving a legitimate part of the city. It used to be the center of town. So, Mr. Martinovic, what you're trying to do is ugly. That's one little funny illustration of one attitude. There are others, you could quote from the same time, from the same text the part where the lady said they beat Borko Stefanovic a little bit and what he had to do at night in Kruševec town, so they waved, to hang Gilasa three times. Not once, they'd hang him three times. They're also your voters, Mr. Martinovic. That's an opinion. I also conveyed attitudes to my account, if this is the text, there are funny and stupid and funny and fair and unfair attitudes and comments and on my name and character in that same text, Mr. Martinovic. More or less funny, and that a lot of talking, is a hair, isn't a hair, etc. So it's a text to Mr. Martinovic, a serious analytical text with a few funny illustrations. So don't try to replace the thesis. And these different ex-Julks and their attempts to be evil, I won't even look back on it. I look to you, and I answer only to you because you are a representative of the ruling majority of a serious party who to the soul will not be so long-rule and serious if there are such representatives in the Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56987	Right on line, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56988	Here, so the citizens of Serbia can see what this is all about. This isn't any five pages, this is one sheet of paper that has two sides. This is page one, this is page two. By the way, you have some of your charts here. You allegedly did some research, so he says – do you support Serbia's entry into the EU, do you support Serbia's entry into NATO, do you support Serbia's alliance with Russia? What's more important is I don't want to read this research of yours, because in your research, you miss out on a regular basis. You've recently done some research saying that you, and you say that I'm wrong, you did some research the other day that you're the most popular politician in the opposition, that you're even more popular than Dragan Gilas. But that's your business. What the citizens of Serbia need to know, you invented all these talks with Mr. Vukadinovic. So, you invented these conversations in order to make fun of those citizens who support the politics of Alexander Vukic, so when you no longer knew how to humiliate the citizens who support his policy and who support the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, then you remembered a woman from Vranje who is 55 years old and who can't say Vucic, but Vulic, because she has a slight stroke in her head, and otherwise lives in Mahal. What did Mr. Vukadinovic mean by this? For SNS, Roma, or Mahala gypsies, have been voted in favour of disabled people suffering from strokes in their heads. It is a picture of voters that Djordje Vukadinovic represents Serbian citizens. I'm telling you again, because of all these imaginary conversations with phantom people, you've mentioned some phantom amendments, these are phantom people from Capca, Belgrade, Vranja, etc. You should be ashamed of yourself, Mr. Vukadinovic. You insult the Roma, insult the citizens of Vranj, insult the woman who is ill. Such sick women, but truly sick, really sick, not these fictional women of your time, unfortunately, Serbia has a lot. To all of them, you laugh in the face, thinking you're doing damage to SNS and Alexander Vukic. Actually, you're talking about yourself.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56989	Thank you. Right on line, MP Gjorge Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56990	I know it's hard for you, Mr. Martinovic, but I don't make up figures, let alone personalities and dialogues. I say what I think and how I think, convey what I hear or what my researchers hear and record. You fixed yourself for that one case. By the way, if I could really do it, first of all, and I could make up these dialogues and these guys, so I'd be a candidate for the Nobel Prize for Literature, I wouldn't bother and harass you here in this home. So what I'm saying is, such characters as they exist in Serbia, it can't easily imagine even the greatest literary and artistic imagination, that's our reality, that's your reality. Far from that, it's clear to me why you're in charge of this, Mr. Martinovic, so far away from me underestimating voters, when for someone a million and a half or two million or a million people, I don't have the right to underestimate them, I respect them, but of course there are others among them just as I quote, there are others, and it's not disputed either. But the problem is that you're worried, but there's no reason to worry, but that's why all these attacks on me here, not just today, but all these days or months as far as I'm concerned, it's not who I represent. You're afraid of what I'm saying, which could reach the ears of your voters, that what I'm saying actually means a good part of SNS when it comes to these things, from the EU, Russia, attitude towards Kosovo, etc. That makes you sick, Mr. Martinovic. That's why you're attacking me here, that's why here you humiliate me and step on me and insult me in different ways than one of yours, as I called it, pick him up, if not a twin brother politically, then I pick up, here... Not only my national definition, but also my half-dressing, he says, if he's a man at all. So, it's all about, because you need to spoil here so that one of your voters doesn't ask himself, put a finger on his forehead and say, so wait for maybe that man really, maybe there's something about what that Gjorge is saying, at least whatever it is, Vlah, not Vlah, male, female, whatever he's wearing or not. That's the problem, Mr. Martinovic, and these dialogues are real, they're not made up, so they're people who exist and who vote for you, as well as others, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56991	Right on line, MP Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56992	Well, here you are right now confirming what I said. So, according to you, the picture of the SNS voters, which you of course have garnered and put on the paper “Time”, means that the woman should be a gypsy, or a Roma woman, who is 55 years old, and who lives in a crow’s wave, is a picture of the SNS voter, which you are very cleverly and tendingly, at the expense of Dragan Gilas, Vuk Jeremic and your other political masters, placed in public. I don't understand these illusions at all, let me pick up a half, who said you were male or female, I really don't know what you're talking about. But here's the research I was talking about. So, dear citizens of Serbia, Mr Vukadinovic conducted a study at the end of 2018 through his "New Serbian Political Thoughts", and asked Serbian citizens like this - to assess by the school system, with a score of one to five next personalities, Aleksandar Vukadinović 3.20, Ivica Dačić 2.87, Ana Brnabic 2,74, Dragan Markovic Palma 2,74, Zorana Mihajlović 2,31, and then Đorđe Vukadinović 2,11, and behind Đorđa Vukadinović, Dragan Đilas 1,93, Vojislav Seselj 1,84, Vuk Jeremic 1,80, Boris Tadic 1,72, Bosko Obradović 1,67 and now forgotten political pensioner, so Sasa Jankovic 1.50. So, according to your research, and you say that this is not true, Djordje Vukadinović is more popular than Dragan Djilas, Vojislav Seselj, Vuk Jeremic, Boris Tadic, Bosko Obradovic, now that you are more popular than Sasa Jankovic, it is not strange to me, but that you are more popular than all these people and that this research is really real, I doubt it. As it is completely made up and I repeat it again, not because of you, obviously a man simply can't wake you up with that feeling of shame, but I mean, because of the citizens of Serbia, you wrote this in the "Time" list. You invented up to one conversation that you allegedly had with Serbian citizens from Sapac, Belgrade, Vranja and other places in Serbia, because you wanted to show that there are some stupid people behind SNS, sick, Roma, credentials, I don't know what kind of brushes are shown in Veljko Bulajic's films. It's the same ideological and political matrix, these are the ones that are for Wolfie, they don't have half a tooth in their head, they're illiterate, they're complicated, they're Roma, they're living in the mahalais, and we're elite, we're intellectual elites. We are the better Serbia, we are the other Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56993	Thank you, colleague Martinovic. Right on line, MP Gjorge Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56994	I'm just paying attention that Mr. Martinovic spoke for over three minutes, three and a half minutes almost.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56995	Comrade Vukadinovic, are you a sports judge? Ask for a word again. You'll get on every replica he's got at the same time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56996	Because citizens need to know that the replica is two minutes, and Mr. Martinovic always uses over three, three and a half, etc. No problem, you wouldn't allow me that much, but I don't need it. So once again I have to say and there's no help, I'm not making up any dialogue, they're really living people. But all that he said now, and the existing people and your voters, there are all sorts of voters. Unfortunately, that's what the problem is, although I'm trying to point out, but it's a weak thing to hear, that hate spreads, it spreads from the center of politics, from the epicenter and on the periphery, and it won't be easy to return. These incidents, these attacks on the leaders of the opposition, regardless of whether I agree with them or not, say what happened in Shappac the other day, etc., verbally and any other violence against the opposition, is the same symptom of it. So that's the problem. It's not my idea, but you're deliberately saying that you're making fun of the citizens, there's a lot of people, so I do, and you're afraid of it, like I said, that's why you're attacking me, and I'm counting on a part of your voters, Mr. Martinovic. That's why you spit on me here, so step on me here. Some reasonable, normal people who were seduced at some point, so they believed what you or your previous leader were saying, which is why I'm the target here, which is why you keep stressing what I think they are, I don't know, SNS voters. I'm half the kind of... I'm rooting for the Star, and they call them, right, gypsies, I don't have half or I don't know how many teeth in my head, so I'm just an average citizen of Serbia, nothing better than the voters of each and the other and the third. I often live like... How I live and function, and where I run and try to get there, I live really hard in spite of my picture being created about me as some tycoon, rich man and profiter. So, Mr. Martinovic, it's a picture that you actually, out of fear and concern, unfounded, exaggerated, I tell you, you create fear about me to disgust me with normal people, not your voters, with normal citizens of Serbia, it doesn't matter whose voters they are. As far as popularity is concerned, I end up with it, it's one criterion, it's a middle grade. So that's the middle score, Mr. Martinovic, doesn't mean that in the election I would get more votes than these colleagues, but we'll see at the end of the ballad. So, middle grade, but on the other hand, what's the problem, if you weren't worried that I could get some positive evaluation from your voters, you wouldn't be attacking me here. That better average than my opposition colleagues, so that's exactly what your voters gave me, and that's why you're spittin' me out here right now, and you're introducing me to humiliate and spit them out. I haven't invented a single replica, I haven't invented a single dialogue, I can bring people, witnesses, women who have interviewed these people, maybe something has even been recorded on Mr. Martinovic's tape. But it doesn't go to your head or pretend it doesn't go to your head. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56997	There you see fellow Vukadinovic and you three minutes. Right on the replica of Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56998	So, I'm behind what I said, Mr. Vukadinovic. You invented everything and one conversation, representing the SNS voters as the Nazis did in time, on those posters where the Jews were drawn with the devil's horns, with the tail dragging behind them, and then here this is the devil, kill him, when you kill him, and in this case, Alexander Vukic, then Serbia is supposed to go better. So, you, Mr. Vukadinovic, are applying a recipe from the thirties and 40s of the last century that was practiced in Germany. You, when you analyze the conversations, these imaginary conversations with men and women from Subotica, Kruševac, Belgrade, Leskovec, etc. And when you see who positively pleads for Wolf and SNS, you can see from the context that there's something wrong with that man, in your opinion. He's uneducated, he's stupid, he's credential, he's completely uninformed about what's going on on on the political scene of Serbia, Roma is, therefore, sick, having some physical or mental problem. That's the essence of what I'm talking about right now. So that's how you satanize SNS voters. Because you imagined it wasn't your paper, it was imagined by many before you, that they were intellectual elites, and that all of us here from SNS are some bad guy and that all the people who voted for us are some bad guy who's not worth a pipe of tobacco. You're some big intellectuals, you're some big Europeans, you're salting our minds about how we should behave in parliament, you're some big public opinion researchers and so on. Now I hear you're having a hard time living, torturing yourself, etc., with all of Patrick Ho, with all of your thugs and criminals from Hong Kong, America, etc. who finance your party and which finance you this whole poor, sorry opposition in Serbia, which allegedly needs to take responsibility for Serbia's leadership.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u56999	The People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic, has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u57000	Thank you, Chairman. Had there been this much understanding of the opposition's opinions and attitudes and the right to receive a word, we probably wouldn't have had this part of the hall now, but I still commend this gesture of the chairman who made this broad replica possible. I will make my contribution by trying to finish, or not to continue, unless something terrible is brutal, which is worth the answer. So, I think in this debate, maybe part too high, maybe partly necessary, we've shown a few things. Mr. Martinovic can't understand that someone really doesn't want to make it up, but delivers it as they hear and as people vote. I am not happy about the various results in these studies, besides for the presidential elections our research was published in the same time that you want, which you hold in your hand, and it showed that Aleksandar Vukic had over 50% support and were not happy with my colleagues and friends because of this finding. Number 52, 53% approximately, even your president registered it somewhere, that finding. Sometimes it's wrong, but generally the intention is good and objective. What offends you and it is now seen from this, for the tenth time you've tried to introduce me as someone who satanicizes your constituents. It is clear what is intent, concern or fear that one of them might be touched by that George is speaking is not so pointless and, in fact, benevolently and essentially true and that it is very close to what you said or at least to your voters shortly or in time, when you struggled to get into the position you are now in. So that's the essence of these attacks. I don't caricate your voters. There are various of them, but the fact is that there are those, such as the fact that most of your voters, in the last issue of "Times" I published, when you are interested in it, does not know what the mayor of Belgrade is called, exactly the number of supporters who voted for it, or for the SNS in the last city elections. It's a fact, and they know more about the opposition. I don't think I live hard. I'm just saying that I'm not that tycoon or that profiteer like I'm being introduced here. I live as I live, certainly not better or much worse than most citizens of this country, I don't complain. But I'm telling you, you're making one wrong photo robot, and it's coming back to you at some point on your head, and that arrogance you've demonstrated here in the Assembly, not just towards me, but I'm talking about the whole opposition. I think they're wrong not to be here, but I can't blame them because the fact is that they've suffered often, and my colleagues and colleagues here from my parliamentary group. What have you been doing to the lady, you or your fellow political officer, what have you done to Mrs. Sandy Raskovic Ivić, one serious lady, the lady and the president and the head of my parliamentary group? That was a shame, Mr. Martinovic. You were the first to react, even though you didn't say it.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u57001	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP, Milorad Mircic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u57002	Mr. Arsic, I've waited patiently for everything, we've all been waiting for this debate to end, this controversy that's pointless and aimless, and we've been expecting this controversy at the level of individuals to make sense, but now we've already entered the water when some of the data from some of the research of public opinion we all suspect, only one man doesn't doubt who says he's the author of it and says it's authentic. I don't think there's any point in having a discussion about it anymore. You are the man who, as far as I can see, warned the chairman Marinkovic, at that time, that it was pointless so many times to give the replica to the replica. If you did this as an MP from the MP's bench, there's no reason for you to stay in this part consistent with yourself, or as vice president to break these lines. We are now in the waters of public opinion research, where the illusions of some are respected by some colleagues to their party in the past, to their party which they now belong to, and in doing so, please, we must take care not of what they say, but of what side they say. Even a colleague who isn't here is mentioned. I don't know now, if you put me on fire, I wouldn't know what MP group it belongs to. It's like a flea market, we come here, a second parliamentary group wins. Here, I asked a colleague on my right the other day for a colleague of Macura what that keybinding means, to which it now belongs. I think it's pointless this debate. I deeply believe and ask you to take a break, as you do regularly, and you are skilled at it, and to continue, in the end, there is the minister, and how important it is to hear the minister and answer some of the questions that we have about the law. What, then, did you keep Mr. Ruzic here, if he's going to listen to this research he knows for sure that they don't paint reality?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u57003	Comrade Mircic, you've said everything, except for one very important thing, which I've broken by a member of the Rules of Procedure. (Milorad Mircic: I said, Article 27) You didn't say, don't say that. (Milorad Mircic: I apologize if I didn't say Article 27) Here, Article 27. I accept that it's a little oversight. Don't ever put words in my mouth that I didn't say, the replica on the line is allowed and should not be banned. As for the events in the Assembly, the controversy between MPs is being conducted here, so it should be guided. And it should only be managed, no offense, no threats, no disrespect, as we had the opportunity to see when the former regime was in the O.R. So this is one, in my opinion, the most common part of a single Parliament's life. Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in voting day about the breach of the Rules of Procedure? Milorad Mircic: No. I want you to respect this Parliament and take a break. You asked for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u57004	Here, Mr. Arsic, since you went to comment on what was yesterday, the controversy was between me and Mr. Orlic and you stood up and said there was no point in wasting so much time on these huge polemics. And amongst other things, we were lenient, we were quite normal, there were no insults, but we weren't even angry when the break was made, so then we went to the agenda point. It's not an anger. This really is now, bringing out unverified data, what Mr. Martinovic reads, he reads something that no one can believe. You know, that one Djordje Vukadinovic is anonymous on a political scene more popular than Vojislav Seselj, who is a world star looking at political and sports. Well, it's out of your mind. It could be a professor who works in the profession, being the subject of his analysis or young experts.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u57005	Comrade Mircic, is that a violation of the Rules of Procedure or an amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u57006	I'm just saying what I'm saying to justify my proposal and your comment.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u57007	You have made a proposal to act in accordance with Article 112. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. It's okay. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. Right on the replica and we end the circle of replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u57008	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, in order to make it clear to the citizens of Serbia how much untruth was spoken by Djordje Vukadinovic, he says he was conducting a telephone survey, and now look, he says, as I quote what Djordje Vukadinovic published in "Time", an anonymous phone poll said. He writes a middle-aged student from southern Serbia. If you're on the phone with someone, Mr. Vukadinovic, how do you know someone is middle-aged? Now, this middle-aged South Serbian student, she says, reportedly. Why am I reading this, to show the citizens of Serbia that those behind Gjorge Vukadinovic, he is not as important as he wants to introduce himself and he is not so popular, but those who stand behind him and who today sent him to the Assembly because they do not have the courage to come alone. As the SNS voters represent, says -- a middle-aged student from southern Serbia, all should go to prison except Vukic, for 20 years have been stealing and the people are suffering. So our voters, as you can see and illiterate, don't know how to speak, are a people of suffering. After Sloba, the Wolf is the only one worth it, he's gonna give us a rebirth, right? So we're stupid, uneducated and we support Slobodan Milosevic's policy, etc. Then, Belgrade, a 27-year-old woman, says about Vukic -- I hated him while he was in radicals, and now he's great. Milorad Mircic: Give me your phone number. Well, I don't have a phone number, Mr. Mircic. Subotica, a 54-year-old woman, says - I'm for Vukic and Dacic, and I'd like to include Cedu Jovanovic and Seselj, that would be a great team, etc. Why am I reading this? Because, Mr. Vukadinovic, you think these people are the voters of Alexander Vukic and the voters of the SRS. So, SRS voter, what kind of paradigm was created or what kind of paradigm should be created about SRS voters? They're sick, they're stupid...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u57009	You're bringing the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u57010	Wait a minute, this is important, Mr. Arsic. It's not important. He's trying to represent it's irrelevant. It's extremely important. So, what is the paradigm of the SRS voter, he's uneducated, he's stupid, he's a credential, he lives in the mahalai, he's a political follower of Slobodan Milosevic, he's not loved by the people while he's in radicals, he's great now and of course he's great that in tandem with him, right, Cedomir Jovanovic and Vojislav Seselj. It is a paradigm of SRS voters as represented by Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic and those who manage a part of the so-called "Strengthen". opposition in Serbia, and through mouth and through writing lists of time. It's pure Nazi and fascist propaganda.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u57011	The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u57012	I don't know, really, how in this multi-hour debate you find the name Vojislav Seselj. What it says is "Time", Mr. Martinovic, the right to tell you I wouldn't even comment, because these newspapers don't deserve a comment, as anyone in that newspaper does. But, it's no problem, I don't think it should be a problem for anyone in Serbia to call themselves someone's voter and for trying to introduce us it's not foreign and our voters and we as a party so they like to call those who think they're very modern, but of course it's seen in calling each and every one of us in behavior and in what anyone can say, etc. Who's on what level? But there's no need to talk about voters that way. Are the Roma voters? Well, Roma are Serbian citizens too, and voters are. Are voters people who don't have teeth, who unfortunately don't have the money to put their teeth on? They're voters, they're citizens of Serbia. There's no need to disdain any voters, no matter who chose them, has chosen, a man votes on the basis of some of his perceptions, politics, offers and so forth. It is normal that everything Serbia has to have and every party. You know, if someone doesn't have the money to put their teeth on and we should resent him for being someone's voter, and we won't mind, for example, that Sergei Trifunovic, who comes in torn-up pants, who sniffs out publicly in cafes and so on, that's what voters are like, so that's the standard, we're people, that's what Serbia is, I guess we're all fighting to live in some better times and better conditions, and then the voters will dress better and look better.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u57013	The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. Right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u57014	What is dangerous here, Mrs. Radeta, I agree with you, there are people in Serbia who have different problems, but this text in "Time" is often written. This text in "Time" was written to defile the SNS, to defile Aleksandar Vukic to Serbia, who says to himself that Serbia is elite, because these texts clearly show the profile of SNS voters and who supports Aleksandr Vukic. So I did not negatively express myself on people who support SNS and Aleksandr Vukic's policies, on the contrary, all Serbian citizens are equal, but in the eyes of these so-called elites what the average voter looks like, and what is the meaning of the text that Djordje Vukadinovic published in "Time"? So, the average SNS voter is a rum, lives in the mahala, it is a credential, supports the coalition of Vukic, Seselj and Ceda Jovanovic, is a policy follow-up of Slobodan Milosevic and so on. So, a picture of the average SNS voter is being created, and if this wasn't an accident, I'm telling you the show, I think today it was broadcast on TV "N1", which is actually only in the form of television, in fact, one new agitprop, what once after World War II was called the agitation and propaganda of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of Yugoslavia. This morning, on this new, so-called democratic agitprop, he was visiting the famous cartoonist Petricic, who, in fact, repeated everything that Djordje Vukadinović wrote a while ago in "Time", that all those who vote, here you can look at the show, I'm not lying, that all those who vote for SNS and Alexander Vukic are stupid, uneducated, it's some cattle, some bagra, these are people who live on the periphery, who have no sewers, who once voted for Slobodan Milosevic and SRS, who are now voting for SNS, which is otherwise just painted SRS, and so on. So, what you wrote in "Time," that's what your contemporaries repeat every day on the list "Today," I'm already risking cartoons tomorrow in that famous list, so every day your contemporaries repeat it in the list "Today", on TV "N1", in newspapers like "Time", "Nin" etc. That's what Jovo Bakic says. That's what so-called intellectuals and professors from the Faculty of Philosophy in Belgrade say. That's what Rade Veljanovski says. That is what Dubravka Stojanovic says, which says Serbs are responsible for all wars in the former Yugoslavia. Of course, Slobodan Milosevic is responsible, and together with him is Aleksandar Vukic, etc. That's why I've been talking for two hours. This is a dangerous political game in which you all who vote for SNS display in the same way Hitler showed Jews in the '30s and '40s, as people with horns and tails.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u57015	Thank you. Right to the replica of the People's Messenger of the Faith of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u57016	It might be dangerous if it were some newspaper with some serious circulation, but you've listed several newspapers that are mostly read by members of the newsroom and a wider family. You should pay attention and draw attention to some institutions, public enterprises that you manage not to advertise there, that is, not to make ads there and thus help one of these newspapers that are really anti-state. Some of the directors of these institutions, most often it is either a business space or a job, etc., in order for as few people to read that ad to put it into that newspaper and thus finance the newspaper. That's not good because the paper never publishes anything that is of interest to the state of Serbia. In fact, there's absolutely nothing that's real, but, I repeat, it's a good thing it's a newspaper that reads so few people that there's no danger that it takes some broader situation. When you look at the impressions of any of these newspapers, then you'll see how many quasi journalists are out there without education. So they're not any elite. Anyone can be declared whatever they want, but no one can be an elite because they say that to themselves. Elita is becoming in a different way, and in this Vukadinovic writing, the most disturbing thing is that she identifies us and brings us into any relationship with Cedomir Jovanovic, because indeed Serbian radicals may be fragile, but they were never fragile because of drugs.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u57017	Right on line, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u57018	What I said, I said that I would at least try to break that lie that has been spreading through Serbia for months and years, which is that there is no media freedom in Serbia. I have listed only some printed and electronic media that spend 24 hours spreading the worst possible propaganda and worst possible lies and giving the worst possible insults, above all, to the expense of Alexander Vukic, and then to all of us who support him, regardless of whether we are MPs, ministers or perform any other public function. At least two-thirds of the printed media in Serbia is directly against Vukic. A large number of electronic media in Serbia, headed by N1, has been doing nothing but spreading the worst propaganda against Alexander Vukic. You watch N1 TV today as if you're watching the 1990s and 1991s HRT. All day long, South-Communists, Serbs, aggression, great Serbia, the fight against young Croatian democracy, etc., the murderous propaganda carried out in the same matrix. The same matrix is done today - Alexander Vukic is a thief, everything he does is wrong, he invented new jobs, his son is a junkie, today he's a basketball player, tomorrow he's a football manager, his brother is a criminal, his father is a thief, his mother is this, he's like this, he's like that, Mr. Vukadinović, day after day. Most of the media in Serbia, unfortunately, supports you, supports Dragan Djilas, supports Vuk Jeremic. It supports those who complain both in Serbia and in the white world that there is no media freedom in Serbia. Not that he has one, but he's got one. It is damaged by the reputation of the president of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic, who won more than 60% of the votes in the 2017 elections. That's what this is about. Well, I was here in the Assembly showing the front page of a weekbook, which also says there is no media freedom in Serbia. Big picture, photo of the front gate in Auschwitz and in German “Arbeit macht frei” – the work releases. So today, Serbia is represented in media that support Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic and you. So Serbia is actually a big concentration camp. Serbia is a fascist state, so you speak of your own state, and the President of the Republic is a thief, a criminal, a fascist, his brother is a criminal, his whole family is criminal, and our voters are credentials, stupid, sick, Roma, living by the machines, etc. It's a message that you send to the citizens of Serbia from day to day. You are no elite, and you are no intellectual, you are the past of Serbia, only you cannot admit it to yourself.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u57019	Thank you. Since it is obvious that we will continue with the circle of replicas, I am setting a break on the basis of Article 112. Five-minute Rules of Procedure. [[After a break.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. Does anyone else want a word of the amendment to article 18 submitted by MP Milorad Mircic? It must have been a good amendment as soon as we discussed it for two and a half hours. Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. (Miladin Ševarlic: I asked for the Rules of Procedure. A colleague named Ševarlic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u57021	Article 107. - the dignity of the Assembly. One of the participants in the previous debate questioned the intellectual level of professor of the Faculty of Philosophy in Belgrade. I think we should abstain here in the Assembly, a team before, as far as I know, there are no representatives of the University of Belgrade Faculty of Philosophys, who could possibly respond and deplete. Secondly, all competitions for the selection of professors of any university in Serbia are public and any citizen of Serbia can give a performance, unless one of the candidates considers that he does not meet the criteria for the election. To question the reputation of Belgrade's University, which is in the 200-300-best universities in the world, is indeed inappropriate by MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u57022	Comrade Chevarlich, I can't agree in any part with you in any part. Because if someone wants to participate in Serbia's political life, regardless of its scientific works, its scientific knowledge, its experience, the title it has, it must accept that for a political stance it can receive an answer, especially from the MPs. Those who don't do politics, and scientists, they do science. And policy scientists are usually bad scientists, really. Trust me. It really is. Do you want the National Assembly to declare in the voting day? Miladin Ševarlic: Yes. Yes. (Alexander Martinovic: Rules of Procedure. ) According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is made by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u57023	Article 103, Mr. Arsic. I didn't really intend to question anyone's choice of calling or to deal with any formalities about the university's work. I was talking about something else -- that from certain circles, not all of them are such teachers, but from certain circles of the Faculty of Philosophy in Belgrade come very dangerous thesis, very dangerous thesis, not only on the current political situation in Serbia, but on what has been happening in the premises of the former Yugoslavia since 1990, and that is what Mr Marko Atlagic has talked about very often. So we Serbs are responsible for the disintegration of the former Yugoslavia. We Serbs are responsible for the wars that took place in Croatia in Bosnia and Herzegovina, we are responsible for all the horrors and all the crimes that took place between 1991 and 1995. We are responsible for the alleged genocide in Srebrenica. We're responsible for NATO bombing us in 1999. That's what Vuk Jeremic said in an interview in the German list "Spigl" and you can verify that, in fact, Slobodan Milosevic caused NATO aggression because he killed Albanians in Kosovo and Metohija and that NATO intervention was fully justified. So these are the ones that come from some quasi-intellectuals, from people who are obviously political opponents of Aleksandr Vukic, not to mention the latest in a series of scandalous statements by Mr Jova Bakic, who says that we who are currently in power in Serbia should be chasing along the streets with long pipes and that he is surprised that those who broke up on RTS with motor saws, what they need with motor saws, should have brought machine guns like they wore on October 5, 2000, to break up the RTS programme, i.e. to stop broadcasting the RTS Diaries and say, "We have taken over power in Serbia." It's a 1989 Romanian script. So, what do you need the chainsaws for? A machine gun in your hands and that's how you win power. This is what your great intellectuals and teachers tell you, individual professors from the Faculty of Philosophy in Belgrade, otherwise, Mr. Chevarlic, all former communists and "titoists". Miladin Ševarlic: I'm reporting for word. )
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u57024	Comrade Chevarlich, on what grounds? Miladin Ševarlic: He mentioned me. You have no right. It was a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Radeta colleagues, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u57025	We are discussing the Law on the Communist Police, currently on Article 18 and our amendment to this article, but I want it to be heard that a people who may be watching this hear what powers are provided for the municipal militia. So, what can a municipal militiaman do? To issue a warning, oral order, verify identity, bring, stop and review faces, objects and vehicles, temporary confiscation of objects, audio and video recording, use of means of coercion, collection of information and other powers in accordance with the law. This is really to scare a man when he reads this, even if this is the jurisdiction of the regular police, let alone the municipal militias that no one lives for doesn't know what they're actually going to do. It says here they can verify identity. We have the Personal Data Protection Act, and wherever we're talking to you, Minister Ruzic, about the electoral lists, you're saying that they can't be available to everyone because of the birth number and for the protection of personality data, and then a municipal militia officer can stop a man, ask for a ID card, check his identity, can run a feed, it's an arrest. He can tie him up and take him. He can temporarily take away objects, he can take away a man's vehicle. The means of coercion, wearing a bat, can beat. This is really something that is absolutely unacceptable. As much as you try to convince yourself, first of all, that this is something we need, believe me, we don't need it, and this is going to get us into a lot of trouble. When you say, Minister, that this does not apply only to Belgrade formally not, but here, I will say only on one or two occasions when it comes to the city of Belgrade, which has made a decision where children at a certain time of day must not cry, dogs must not bark, not listen to the news a little louder than someone likes, some 30 decibels is some limit as much sound as they can be, to be heard in a certain age. Can you imagine if someone came in without a uniform, reported someone's neighbor crying at 11 o'clock a.m., and a communal militiaman comes in without a uniform, ringing the doorbell? Do you think anyone normal will open the door to someone like that or do you think he'll open the door, so when he tells him he's a communal cop, he'll break his nose? How can a man, without a uniform, swim or stop? You now want to chase these "Kargo" drivers, take their vehicles, etc. by this law. You know what this law is meant for. When it comes to measuring decibels in Belgrade, they say, I listen to representatives and your ministry, and since it is now current and city authorities, they explain in the media, says -- a municipal militiaman will not measure noise because he doesn't have that kind of apparatus that does it. Then how is he going to assess the noise? He says, "If anyone reports to him, he will come in, and enter, and ring the bell, and he will hear." You just can't believe someone in charge of applying this law is telling you. Or, say two officials from Belgrade's level on a television show, now the host says so timidly – excuse me, how will someone forbid a child to cry at 12 o'clock at night if he has a toothache, say, or if he's not in pain, he's a child, so he's crying? He says one of these officials like this -- you know, this decision puts neighbors on the exam, so I guess they won't report neighbors for that. The second one says, "I'd like to see that judge do the crimes that would punish the parents whose child was crying, so someone reported them." I'd like to see a judge for violations who won't punish. So it's not the judge for the offenses. If you sent a communal militiaman because someone abnormally reported to his neighbor because he was crying for a child, and that communal militiaman of yours went away, yet without a uniform, and someone cheated on him and let him go, no one normal will let him or let him in, or open the door, but let's just say, it happens, and he writes a report and directs it to the judge for violations. And how can a judge react rather than under this law and those decisions punish someone? So there are a million examples where, with these amendments, we will prove to you that this law is a complete failure.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u57026	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u57027	Thank you. As far as noise is concerned, the draft law on noise protection is already ready, which otherwise predicts the jurisdiction of the municipal militia to deal with the topics you've been talking about. But given that we read your amendments very carefully, some of us are not responding for well-known reasons, I just didn't realize that the content of your amendment was related to what you were talking about. It concerns Article 18 paragraph 1 point 6 which you have proposed to delete, which deals with the issue of temporary confiscation of the case, which is otherwise regulated by Article 24. The Law on Public Order and Peace, where police, municipal police are scheduled to do so so far, future militias or a competent inspection body. I simply want to point out that fact and because the citizens know that we are very closely following what is in your amendments. Unfortunately, I didn't hear that this was the subject of what you were talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u57028	Thank you. Word by MP Marko Atlagic Excuse me, colleague Radeta. [[And I'm replicating the minister?]] Right on the line, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u57029	Which is nice Arsic as he says two warnings to me, here, he's all re-emerged. Minister Ruzic, you have been a People's MP, you are the minister who is here every time he has to, who has an orderly communication with the MPs, but don't act like a minister. Don't turn around now, you didn't understand this amendment, and this amendment applies to Article 18. Yes, in particular, it is point 6) which speaks of the temporary confiscation of the case, among other things, I mentioned it in a slightly broader explanation. I said - here, this point 6) you predicted to take away "Kargo" vehicles to this "Kargo" vehicle association. And you know why there's even this problem with this Kargo association? Because Zorana Mihajlovic is spreading the story that "Kargo" has brother Ana Brnabic in the vehicle association and therefore does not allow that association to drive people around Belgrade, and those from the "Kargo" association say – Zorana does not allow this because her partner, according to her partner, is co-owner of the "Pink Cab". It's very complicated, but obviously there's something about it. You can't, Minister, oblige a municipal militia officer to take away a vehicle or Cargo drivers, or so on. Wild cabbies. A vehicle like property can only be taken away after a judicial verdict. And to come across your communal militiaman and show the card, yet without a uniform, to say, "Stop right there, you don't have the permission I think you should have, I'm taking your vehicle away." You can't have that cowboy on the streets, people. You're going to cause these party personnel of yours, which you're going to be hiring here, to get beat up in Belgrade.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u57030	The word has a minister, right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u57031	I thank you for that clarification and for that broader coverage of the topic you spoke of. This isn't about taking the case. The confiscation of a vehicle is treated by the Road Transport Act, if I'm not mistaken. So, what powers are defined by those special laws that I set out today before these discussions you had here, these laws provide that, in some part, the municipal militia, or the police, are currently, until this law is passed, also has jurisdiction in that part.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u57032	Right on the line, the People's Messenger of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u57033	Minister, we understand that the concept of your law and your approach to solving problems in any sphere of life differs from those of the SRS and that's normal. I'm just asking you that when you answer and when we talk about this proposal or any other proposal or any other amendment, don't turn the story around, don't pretend you've mixed up the pots. We are speaking with argument and expect reasoned answers from you. So, community cops today, yesterday, five days ago, stop and come with the inspector and take people's cars. Only after these people are sued, proceedings are conducted and these proceedings are ongoing, and this law says – when this law comes into force, the one that regulated the work of the municipal police will no longer be in force, which means this militia of yours will do what the police are doing. Start a little while ago, I said this was gonna be party personnel, yeah, and that's gonna be a reason for being arrogant. That's the case with both the perpetrators and the notaries and the presidents of the tenants' congregations. So it's amazing how much you've networked your party activists on all these jobs, not just your party, but the parties in power, that it's just amazing, that people can't breathe any more than that. Now, one of those beings and these communal cops, the militiamen, who are going to say, "I've got a job through the party," because they say, any one of these guys I've listed, they say, "I've come across the party, what can you do to me?" That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u57034	Right on line, Minister Ruzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u57035	Thanks again. It's just that it's possible that I don't understand things, or I didn't get it the right way. Article 156a. The road transport laws, I will quote, for the sake of the public, since you mentioned some "Cargo" vehicles, if I am not mistaken: "In the exercise of the authority of the city and the city of Belgrade in the area of taxi transport, control over the application of the provisions of this law governing taxi transport is carried out and the municipal police". So it already exists. "If, in the exercise of control, a municipal police officer finds that a taxi is carrying out a legal entity, an entrepreneur or a natural person who has no approval, he is required and authorised to suspend the vehicle temporarily, it shall make up a record of the fact that the vehicle has been withdrawn, and shall issue a certificate without delay of the minutes and a confirmation of the delivery of the city's administration, i.e. the authority responsible for inspection operations in the field of traffic." "Only after that, in accordance with the procedure, the authorised person of the city administration, or the administration responsible for traffic inspection tasks, shall apply the authority referred to in Article 149 paragraph 1 of this Act within a period of seven days from the date of delivery of the minutes and confirmation of the city administration, or the authority responsible for traffic inspection tasks, or shall the vehicle be returned to the person to whom it has been seized. "Therefore, in the application of the authority of Article 2(2), a municipal officer acts in the manner laid down in Article 158(3) of this Act. We're talking about this law having jurisdiction which has already been given to the municipal police to do so, in accordance with the procedure that I read here, for the sake of the citizens, without intending to compromise with any MP, and neither with you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u57036	Just to let the MPs know that I didn't rule out my colleague Radet, but first I have to delete the list, and then she has to ask for a word, because she has the right to reply. Here you are, colleague Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u57037	Well, I'd be sharper than, I'm afraid, he'll take my word for it, and I wouldn't like it very much. Notices, that's no problem, just so he won't take my word for it. So, Minister Ruzic, everything you said, you said exactly what I said, or before you said, you just confirmed what I said. You're explaining that it's the jurisdiction of the municipal police, and now it's going to be the jurisdiction of the municipal militia. You know what your problem is? Again, I don't mean yours personally, but generally, when a government official comes in and says, "But that's what the law says there." But that law over there isn't a holy letter. The problem had arisen somewhere before, so he came all the way here. As we had before you Minister Zorana Mihajlovic, where the problem is in the Expropriation Act, and as a result, the problem of her lex specialis. When we talk about some law or when we intervene with the amendment, we say that this law should look, and if it is in collegiate with another law, it does not oblige us to respect that other law. Then, if you would accept this, we'd be changing the previous law. The only thing that binds us is the Constitution and the amendments just have to be in accordance with the Constitution. And in a conflict with any other law, the amendment can be, because these amendments are governed by this bill. But the most important thing about this is that you actually confirmed everything I said and you don't have to bother anymore, you can't convince me. I like to talk to you and I'd love to hear from you again, but, come on, try something new to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u57038	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u57039	I thank you, Chairman. Listening to this broader context of the amendment's reasoning, citizens would think that when they listen to what's now being said, it's about a law that applies exclusively to the Cargo vehicles, which is absolutely not true. It is the provision of Article 18 of the proposed text of the law, which refers to the jurisdiction or right of the municipal militant to suspend the case. What's that? Only those objects which were the subject of an illegal act, offence or offence, and of those who committed the offence. This same, the exact same measure, can also be carried out by an authorised person, the official face of the Ministry of the Interior, but for a significantly higher degree of social danger, where the illegal activity with the elements of the crime is. What's the target of confiscation, temporary confiscation? The aim is to provide evidence in the course of the proceedings, because if a municipal militia officer submits a criminal report or a criminal order, it must be based on adequate evidence. That evidence must have the necessary evidence. What proof is that? The evidence is exactly the one from the scene where the identification of the illegal activity was performed and where the perpetrator was located. If someone has done something that implies a violation of the communal order and used an illicit means, it is logical that this means will be taken away and it is logical that this means will be used as evidence in the course of the proceedings. It's usually a misdemeanor procedure. That he's guilty, there's already another jurisdiction. Therefore, citizens should know that in this way, such a measure and such normisation of the law has done nothing beyond what is necessary, necessary for the practical application of this law to be optimal, which means the ultimate goal, that whoever has committed a violation of the communal order is identified and punished by adequate punishment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u57040	Right on the line, the People's Messenger of the Faith of the Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u57041	There's really no legal argument here. I'm surprised, pal, I've seen you differently as a lawyer. You're saying that this confiscation, the temporary seizure of a vehicle is done when an illegal action or a crime on the scene is established. Wait, is that a communal militiaman or does he write a proposal, and then a misdemeanor court determines that? You're a little confused. You say - it must be to provide evidence. Now what? Get a municipal militiaman on the spot of some wild cab driver, not to say "Kargo", a taxi driver who doesn't have a license, and has that board, because it's no problem to get those tables and now, if you don't take his car away, he'll, in order not to misrepresent it, take it nice and push his car into the Danube. God save me. What can he do with that car if he gets his application signed up, submits nicely to the judge for violations? How will a colleague of Jovanovic, when they take away, say, salad and spinach from women who sell on boxes? Will he wear it in a court of law and wait until they come to order, to stand up for that salad? Although, it happened, here I have to point this out now, it has nothing to do with this law, it happened, it's described in Sheschel's book "Banna bark". When the banana was current, then Vojislav Seselj put the banana peel in the folder and took it to the time, the Fourth Municipal Court as proof that Nikola Barovic slipped onto the banana peel. For God's sake, the judge had to put it in the case files, and it's been in the case files for a long time. But it was some other kind of procedure and other party in the process. This, really, I'm a little confused. You defend Minister Ruzic, I'm not attacking him, but not like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u57042	Right on line, MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u57043	I thank the chairman. You know, what kind of person has about me is the subjective attitude of the one who has that experience. So, I can't slow him down any experience, whatever it is, but I'm curious that someone who went to law school and studied criminal law didn't understand things. If the perpetrator committed a crime by using firearms, then the firearms are seized. And who took away? ) It is a measure to be implemented as a measure provided for in the law. If it is found on the scene and identified on the spot as a perpetrator of an illegal act, in particular a criminal offence, of course it is an authorised official, in a specific case of the Ministry of the Interior, then the case is taken away on the spot. Why? Because otherwise, there would be a cover-up of clues, because there would be a obstruction of the investigation, because it could lead to the inability to conduct a procedure and then someone would be completely freed of something that he's clearly done. Well, these are quite logical, understandable and rational reasons for finding that someone has committed a violation of the communal order, firstly, to find that it is indeed the perpetrator, secondly, that the illegal operation has made a certain means, thirdly, that the instrument must be taken away from him in order to conduct an appropriate procedure against him. And that means nothing else, but evidence in the process. Who doesn't get it, I really don't know why this could be denied, and if I were to give further reasons, it would be extremely inappropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u57044	Right on the line, the People's Messenger of the Faith of the Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u57045	You've denied yourself, my colleague. But before I explain it to you, I have to tell you that I wasn't in law school, I was in law school, and this was in college, and now it's a novelty. He's gone, so he goes out with his degree. So, you yourself said in your first report that the members of the MUP can temporarily confiscate the items and no one is questioning it. The members of the M.O.P. And you're making some kind of parapolitan, some kind of community militia, and you're giving them powers that they can't and can't have. So there is no question that a certain object that has been committed is a violation that needs to be taken away, to be temporarily taken away. Some don't need to, it's enough to record, to make a record. Now you're gonna go get somebody to show up, someone's gonna attack somebody with a gun, and who's gonna take that weapon away from them? Well, who's gonna take his weapon? Is there going to be a municipal militia? He can't, he can't, he can't. So you've completely messed up the pots again. So we're not talking about not having to. All this stuff that's provided for in Article 18, it's all right, but it's not right to apply that communal one of your militias, but it has to be done by the normal police, the MUP. Is that right, Mr. Arsic, when someone is found committing a crime with a weapon, the police come and take away his weapon? Is that right? The conductor won't come and take your weapon, will he?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u57046	Well, customs is taking away the same thing. You know what I said, don't pull my tongue. ) Right to replica, MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u57047	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Now, whoever retarded in the attitude, or in the explanation, that's some kind of citizen's price, I won't. Whoever's contradictory, I won't appreciate it again... And citizens, please. I'm sorry, of course. First citizens, then citizens, anyway citizens in general. When I spoke of powers, I took as an example of the MUP and took as an example the authorized official faces of the MUP. When it comes to communal militiamen, it's an identical measure, only for a significantly smaller degree of social danger, only for significantly milder anti-legal actions. He can't determine if someone committed the murder even though he has the right to react against the perpetrator, God forbid, such a crime. He can't take away objects that he can confiscate in criminal proceedings by an authorised official face of the MUP, but he can in his competent part of the affairs and tasks entrusted to him to confiscate the cases from the one who has committed the violation of the municipal order, for which he is authorized. And that's the difference you don't understand. That's the difference between the authority of the MUP and the municipal militia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u57048	Right on the line, the People's Messenger of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u57049	Really, just to clear up something I've never said, so let's keep the citizens locked up. So, this is my colleague Jovanovic, even for the crime of murder, and he says -- he can't assess the murder of a municipal militiaman. Who was talking about murder? I was just saying that it could happen that a municipal militiaman gets beat up if he's rude and shows up out there without a uniform. It has nothing to do with this. So we weren't talking about the crime scene of the murder, or the murder weapon. You know, if it happens, don't give God a murder and that communal militiaman happens, he'll probably react to every man's reaction. You ministers in the principle debate mentioned the merits of the municipal police officers at the Social Work Center where they saved no greater tragedy from taking place, what happened to the murder, when God saved, was ordered at the Social Labour Center. But they weren't at their jobs at the time, accidentally passing and reacting, so I guess if you were around, you'd react. So we're talking about jurisdiction, not random passersby, not criminal acts that have nothing to do with this militia. Once again, remember to remember the citizens of Serbia. All this talk about the municipal militia and all the arguments that we're making in support of that this shouldn't exist will be something that the people will talk about. I repeat, it was the same for the municipal police, so now the municipal police are already among the most hated officials in the country. Of course, the perpetrators are in front, so they're notaries. It's just that you're introducing something, our people aren't the kind of people that need someone to knock them in the head at every step, remind them of this or that. You'll be aware of the communal militia to ban them from selling themselves there, that those people would survive on pension and earn something, etc. Well, they're selling something on cardboard boxes. Everything else will go to waste, no one else will let them get near them, and you have to be aware of that.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u57050	Right on line, MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u57051	I thank the chairman. This is the last replica I'm going to make when it comes to this member, this provision of the law. (The People's MP Milorad Mircic throws out of place. ) Thank you, colleague Mircic, I really appreciate your efforts to help me with all this. I want to say something for the citizens. It must finally be understood here that, depending on the law that covers certain matter, those who apply the law must apply it consistently, as well as the municipal militias. If the customs authorities, in accordance with the provisions of the customs legislation, can withdraw certain cases in order to conduct a customs procedure, if the tax administration and the tax authorities of the tax administration can confiscate cases in order to adequately conduct the tax procedure, if inspection services can confiscate cases, such as market inspection, by the regulations applicable to that inspection, to confiscate the cases in order to adequately conduct the procedure, inspection control and, of course, sanctioning, what would that right, in accordance with the provisions of this law, restrict or withdraw the municipal militia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u57052	Right on the line, the People's Messenger of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u57053	Arsic, you just got dropped so customs can take away the weapon, and here, colleague Jovanovic accepts it immediately. So comparing customs service with this innovation is completely pointless. Now, not to be in charge, in customs matters, the point is that we have the MUP, that we have the police, that the police may, within the framework of the department of the Interior, form even this kind of thing, but it can't be a municipal militia. It can't be. It's not that you don't have to take away an object, that you don't have to bring someone in, that you don't need to listen to someone. And how do you imagine a municipal militiaman is bringing someone in? How do you imagine a municipal militiaman reads constitutional rights, says this one - I'm not going anywhere without a lawyer? Do you even understand what the profile of the municipal militia is here? It doesn't say that. So it's not that we don't think order should be introduced. The order should be introduced to the state of Serbia wherever there is no order, but there is no introduction of any new paragrants, there is a MUP. Is it necessary to hire another 100, 200, 500, thousand police officers to deal with these matters? We don't mind. So, the order to introduce needs, but you can't, for God's sake, every rustling on the street to stop a man, to legitize, to take away, to bring him in, to record. He can't, people. What are you making? People should feel like they can't turn away from which side they're being chased and someone's lurking. It can't be like this. It can't be like this. This is unconstitutional. At the very least, both at the beginning and at the end, this is unconstitutional. We'll see what the Constitutional Court says about some of these provisions.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u57054	The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u57055	Your Honor, Vice President, of course I will support the government's position and reason. What's most important... . The People's Messenger, the Witch of Radeta, throws it away. I'm asking these unarticulated to calm down, because they did when they spoke I didn't.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u57056	I don't know what a colleague is. It's been like that all day.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u57057	No, there's no way they can distract me. Of course I will support the government's explanation and what's most important for this, Mr. Minister, the law, is that somewhat by changing the place and the role of a municipal militiaman in some way ensures a cleaner and safer environment for our citizens. That's the most important thing, and then we can talk about the details. What I'm shocked about, Mr. Vice President, is Mr. Professor's statement. Shevarlic, for the sake of the public intellectual and our citizens allow me to explain. It was not Mr. Martinovic who called the Faculty of Philosophy in Belgrade, but individual professors, and I often make arguments. I'm asking Professor... Chevarlica, does he support this position, Dubravka Stojanovic, who said, on February 17th 2014, I quote: "Serbia lost 700,000 people in World War I, thereby reducing the number of Serb victims by 400,000." This, Mr. Ševarlic, ranks the largest forgers of the number of Serbian victims in the First and Second World War with historians and scientists, academics Stjepan Razlo, Dr. Franjo Tudjman and the former chairman of the SFRY presidency, Stjepan Mesic and others. That is not all, the distinguished professor opposes, and I believe Mr. Sevarlic when he defends, raising the monuments to Serbian heroes Milan Tepic and Gavril Principe. That's not all, is it, Mr. Chevarlic, that you support a respected teacher when she says, quote, "Gavril principle is a terrorist," finished quote, not an assassin? That, Mr. Chevrelitch, writes only in Austrian and German textbooks. Professor Stojanovic insists that, I quote, "Serbia disowns Kosovo and Metohija and Republika Srpska", a quote concluded. You know, Mr. Chevrilich, according to the Constitution and the Criminal Code, where the teacher mentioned should be staying today? In the boulevard. You know what a flea is? In prison. Not to say, according to the Penal Code of the Book of Milosh, to finish. Furthermore, if you defend those professors, she also said this, I quote: "The biggest problem of the Republic of Serbia is that it won the wars," finished the quote. You know what that means? That it was supposed to be a fascist loser Serbia. The distinguished professor, and probably you, when you defend her and not only her, does not know that the victorious and liberating, free spirit of the Serbian people is an integral element of Serbian national identity and that is what has kept us alive for centuries. Do you defend Professor Chevarlich? Stojanovic, who said on July 19th 2018, quotes: "Today in Serbia the elites that made war are in their interest to forget responsibility," finished the quote. She doesn't know, and I believe you know that the war was caused by the United States, the EU and the Vatican, in the first place and Germany. There's not a single historian in the West who doesn't say what I say today. Not only that, do you defend Mr. Jovo Bakic, who is a professor at the Faculty of Philosophy, but I mean, I would like to make it clear when you talk about it, whether you are defending him when he, Jovo Bakic, is a respected professor at the Faculty of Philosophy, or that he gave master's work to a student, quote: "The role of Pink and Happy in the creation and reproduction of the cult of the leader and analysis of the content of the hosting of Aleksandr Vukić in the shows "Terrible Word" and "Cirilica". “, ” finished the quote. You're a professor of the university, is this a political mix-up this topic in teaching, which was given by the mentioned professor of sociological sources, which literature? It's just like if I gave it to my student, what would it be? It would've been very strange to quote what the doctor said, and I've had a salvo of strokes on social networks. What if I had given this topic – the role of the Faculty of Philosophy in Belgrade in the creation and reproduction of cults of ignorance, intellectual prosaclysm and diletanteism and analysis of the election for the third time by Professor Dr Jova Bakic as a docent? The esteemed doctor for the third time told President Vukic, quoted on January 17, 2014: "Vučić is an assemblage of Angela Merkel". Is that what you support? It's like I'm saying right now – Professor Dr. Jovo Bakic is Bill Clinton, Dragan Gilas and Vuk Jeremic. What if I said it and I didn't say it? Now, ladies and gentlemen, I'm sorry that part of you is supported by such professors. We did not say about teachers of honour and honor at the Faculty of Philosophy, you will not say that the character of Dubravka Stojanovic and Jova Bakic is a character of an academic named Milan Budimir who was a professor at that university or Radovan Samardzic, a prominent our historian, a great Serbian patriot at that university. So we share on that part. I'm just suggesting that the professors mentioned don't actually deserve to be professors just to fall under a criminal environment. Imagine Jovo Bakic when he says, "Vučić can take on TV duels and small and snotty," finished quote, January 15, 2015. Now, I recommend that all of these quotes that I'm saying tonight and those that I don't have time to say frames in one folder and that every day be reminded to list in my study my scientific achievement, democratic and civilization culture. Once again, it's an honor to the Faculty of Philosophy in Belgrade, but some professors have strayed. And they said to me that I was one of the creators, an unnamed group, a law on higher education. I am as much as you, Mr. Chevarlich and every MP. But if I did, all those professors, docents, actually, who have more than one mandate, wouldn't be at the Faculty of Philosophy in Belgrade, but some other professors, professors who are more valuable, more diligent, more honest, more patriotic, etc. They pressured the president of the High Education Commission to put the doctor in the rule several times, so the maltenes for life, as well as the honourable MP, our Zarko Korać, whom he never has in this high home, receives a salary, and I quote, that Aleksandar Vukic is a dictator and that Patriarch Irinej dictator and that he went to Assad, or the patriarch there, and he does not mind dictator Milo Djukanovic, he goes to his university every 15 days and raises fat money. Well, we're against that kind of professor. So, you wouldn't be a lifesaver, but you'd be just like the law says, and you'd get a rule that a doctor can be once, so whoever doesn't meet the conditions can't go further, they'd come more valuable, more honest and honest. So that's why the law is being advocated, and that's also in the spirit of Europeans, if you want world events. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u57058	The People's MP, Miladin Ševarlic, has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u57059	Thank you, Chairman. I have no intention of being questioned by anyone, especially those who use words that are inappropriate to this home. Furthermore, I am a regular professor at the University of Belgrade, I lectured at seven universities, four universities part-time, three states, and I am an honorary professor of Volgograd State Agricultural University. I am the chairman of the Management Board of the Association of Serbian Hosts and I have contributed that the Association of Serbian Hosts participates in the so-called "Serb Hosts". The internal dialogue launched by the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic and for which we do not know what the result is, except that it is unfavourable in relation to his proposals, and we have never heard of his proposals. I am saying that the Republic of Serbia must maintain territorial integrity and that it can only do so on the basis of the Charter of the United Nations, Resolution 1244 and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. All those who act contrary to these three acts have crossed the line towards betrayal, and who has exceeded it you know very well. After all, let's make a public hearing about who broke the Constitution in relation to these documents and then we'll discuss it. And if you were to call me an assistant intern here, that's inappropriate. I didn't plead, I just said that it can't generally be said that the Faculty of Philosophy of the University of Belgrade is unworthy intellectually, nothing more. (President: Bring the end. ) On individual statements, when they are delivered and if this Assembly is to be declared, I will declare myself in the day of the vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u57060	Thank you. The People's MP Aleksandar Martinovic has the right to reply. Here you go. Miladin Ševarlic: On what basis? )
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u57061	Based on what Mr. Ševarlic said, he doesn't understand what the invitation to dialogue means. The President of the Republic, Aleksandar Vucic, called on all representatives of the relevant political parties to dialogue in parliament, as this is otherwise a practice in all democratic states. So, political inexperiences don't talk, Mr. Chevarlic, on the street, not by using motor saws, long pipes, or anything like that, but by talking in parliament. Now, look, Mr. Chevarlich, some of them laughed at us today as we make it up. This is the cover of the list “Time” since 25 April 2019. Here, look how they vulgarize Alexander Vukic's call for dialogue. I apologize for using degutant words, but the site is degutant, I can't explain this differently. Aleksandar Vukic is sitting on a chair that should represent a bigger cup, and here are Željko Mitrovic and Dragan Vukicevic. They drop dung on the chair offered by Maja Gojkovic to opposition representatives. This is, therefore, the cover of the list ‘Time’. Here is the cartoon of the Koraks in which Maja Gojković, me, Vladimir Djukanovic, Sinisa Mali, Goran Vesić, Milenko Jovanovic, Vladimir Orlic was shown as feces, but literally as excrement of Aleksandra Vukic. Here is the cover of the list “Time” – Football, hooligans and politics: the President’s son among “the lambs”. So much for the freedom of the media, that there is no media freedom in Serbia. Jugoslav Ćosic, director of this N1 television otherwise unregistered in the Republic of Serbia, says: "The society is afraid of Vukic". Here's the front page of the NIN list. Secret contracts and public noise, "Arbajt Maht Fry", this is a photo of the front gate in Auschwitz, "rada liberate" and writes "Work Camp Serbia". So much for the lack of media freedom in Serbia. Here is the cover of the list again of the weekly NIN since 27 December 2018, Aleksandar Vukic presented as Pinochet and put the following words in his mouth – How do we need so many stadiums? “ So do you remember Pinochet? A very clear illusion of a Chilean dictator who killed people in a stadium in Chile. And all this comes from people who say there is no freedom of the media in Serbia, who say Aleksandar Vukic is a dictator and that he does not allow anyone in Serbia to talk about who has a different opinion. Here's the front page of the list "Today", the one they claimed didn't exist, that Vukic invented it at some press conference. He says, through the mouth of my little Martinovic, says President Vukic. And now look at this cartoon, Adolf Hitler, what's he doing? The swing of Vladimir Orlic and drink it with milk, and Goebbels does it with me. And so I can tell you as much here as you want. This is, by the way, the cover of tomorrow’s “Nin” since 4 July 2019. Here, look, Mr. Atlagic. This great one, as the human rights fighter and different Serbia would say, Dubravka Stojanovic says – the government is pushing society into conflict, Rajko Danilovic's secret services are further pulling the strings, and Ana Brnabic is, she says, a progressive in radical creation. That'll come out in "Nina" tomorrow. And now you say, you and those who say the elite in Serbia are like Dragan Dilas and Vuk Jeremic -- there is no media freedom in Serbia. There is no freedom of the media in a country where we are MPs, who are public officials in front of SNS feces, scumbags, fascists, we run a labor camp, we lock people up in stadiums to kill them like Pinochet did, etc. I'm saying this for the citizens of Serbia. This shows up every day of God's day. This occurs every day on TV "N1", Jugoslav Cosic, who says there is no freedom of the media and that the government is pushing society into conflict and that Serbia is in fear of Vucic. Twenty-four hours leading the propaganda for which Goebbels' propaganda is nothing compared to today's propaganda in Serbia. They broadcast a programme from a study in New Belgrade, and are registered, reportedly in Luxembourg, and are angry when President Vukic tells them at a press conference that they are American television. He says we're not American television, we're registered in Luxembourg. Now that the founder is their former director of the CIA, it has nothing to do with that now. Then they say -- there should be a dialogue on REM. In a country where one television N1 24 hour runs a campaign against the legitimate and legitimately elected president of the Republic, represented as Pinochea, as Hitler, as Goebbels, etc. Now we all have to pretend to be ignorant, like we don't see it, not hear it, or can't read it? I understand that some people represent us as credentials, as stupid, as illiterate, but we're not that many idiots. We can see what's behind the cartoon. We can read that Serbia's biggest problem is Vucic's son. We can read the messages that we Serbs are responsible for the disintegration of the former Yugoslavia. That's what you have every day on N1 television. Who's to blame? It's the Serbs. Who among the Serbs? Free Milosevic. Okay, now he's dead, it's pointless to talk about him, he's a wolf. He was in his government and he continues the policy of Slobodan Milosevic. That's what it says in that fictional study that I just quoted. So, this is a turning matrix that should satanize the current President of the Republic, Alexander Vukic, and all of us who do business on his behalf, i.e. as his representatives of the public business and, worst of all, to present in the worst possible light our voters, such as Roma, as people who live in the Mahalahs, as credentials, as illiterate, as people who are for the Vucic coalition, Ceda Jovanovic, Seselj etc. So a very dangerous matrix, a dangerous thesis behind which people who don't think well of Serbia are hiding. I don't think you belong in that category, but don't be naive that what happens is an accident. This is a kind of murderous, special war against Serbia at a very delicate moment when the President of the Republic is trying to save what can be saved at KIM. There's one more thing that makes me tell you, look what's happening on the European political scene. Now it is to be swept into the black country of Alexander Vukic, now to be swept into the black country of Serbia, now it is to be swept into the black country by all of us who are trying to do something for this country, when a man who has not recognised the independence of KIM, who is a Catalan, but who does not support the secession of Catalonia from Spain, is at the head of the European Commission. Why am I telling you this, dear Professor Chevarlich? Nothing in life, especially in politics, happens by accident. Don't take what we're saying here personally. I respect you as a professor, as a man who knows more about agriculture than I do. But this, this headline, this propaganda war against Vucic on TV "N1" is not a war against one man, where it is fortunate to be so, this is a war against the state of Serbia, this is a war against the Serbian people, because when someone says - the Serbian people are guilty of the collapse of the former Yugoslavia, you amnesty from the responsibility of Franjo Tuđman and Ali Izetbegovic and the Cypriot separatists of KIM and all those for whom you, as well as I, know very well what they were doing in 1990. So, the thing is not at all naive. She presents herself as funny through cartoons, so now a naive man can think -- well, that's a cartoon. It's freedom of artistic expression. But these cartoons carry a very dangerous political message. That's what the problem is. The political message is not limited to biting an individual, he was called Aleksandar Vukic, Ana Brnabic, Marko Atlagic, Vladimir Orlic, Vladimir Djukanovic or any of us, it bites Serbia, it bites the Serbian people, in times, which, as you know, are very difficult. For this reason, what Marko Atlagic tells you and what SNS MPs are telling you about, take seriously as one appeal that we all do something together for the state of Serbia. It is easy to work against the state of Serbia, there are many who do so, be on the side of those who work for the state of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-03-0.u57062	Thank you. We'd be done with today's work and we'd continue tomorrow at 10:00. [[session interrupted at 18.25 hours]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the 12th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 80 peoples. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 86 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that at least 84 MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Aleksandar Stevanović. Here you go.
