ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67838	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the 10th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sittings are attended by 83 MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., please insert your cards. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 130 MPs are present in the hall and that we have conditions to begin work. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word has Fatmir Hasani.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67839	Thank you. Dear Parliament Speakers, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I ask the question to the Government of the Republic of Serbia – what should an Albanian minority in Serbia do to be equal with other minorities in Serbia? We are not integrated into state bodies and institutions. Our representation at local and regional level is below minimum, and at the central level we're zero. The biggest unemployment in Serbia is in these three municipalities -- Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja. Nothing is invested in economic development. The diplomas acquired in Kosovo are not yet recognised. There's still books missing for elementary school, and there's only one book for high school. Only Albanians in the municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja are constantly and continuously deleted from the records. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67840	Thank you. The word is Milija Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67841	Thank you. Dear Presidents of the Assembly, as so far, I will ask certain questions concerning us living in southeastern Serbia, in areas such as Svrlig, in areas that are underdeveloped, but areas that have a future. One of the things I've heard now that I've come is that the Committee on Culture and Information has proposed two REM members, to slowly but surely respect what is agreed on, regarding the upcoming elections. All I care about is, as a man, because all the things we talked about, talked about at these meetings, everything is settled for the benefit of all of us, to go to elections, to respect the Constitution. I can just tell my colleagues and citizens of Serbia that the United Peasant Party, whose president, I held a session of the General Committee on 22 December where a decision was made to go to parliamentary, rural and local elections. It's the only way to hear and feel the voice of the people through the ballot. Normally, it is very important that we respect what the Constitution tells us and it is possible that all citizens of Serbia can vote in any part of our country to be. As we have won and the REM will be filled, I am sure that the largest number of parties will go to parliamentary elections, both parliamentary and regional and local elections, and those parties that are considering a boycott, that is the only thing for them because, I am sure, they do not have the support of all citizens, do not have the support of Serbian citizens. The United Peasant Party, whose president I am, will go to parliamentary elections, give support to a policy that leads Serbia to a better future, give support to our President Aleksandr Vukic to continue working for the benefit of all Serbian citizens, in any part of Serbia that they are. One of the things that is positive and good for all of us is our president's activity for "little Schengen" because it's a good thing to open the borders, to do, to create contacts, normally, to employ people. We will support it, and as the United Peasant Party and I as a People's MP, because I think the future for all of us is when friends are respected, when neighbours are respected, and that's what our country of Serbia does. I am interested in one more thing, and this is because Mr. Vukic said earlier that he would have the possibility in some future period that the Government, that the Assembly would vote on certain laws that would be lex specialise for the needs of undeveloped areas, undeveloped regions, where there would be the possibility of more investment in both infrastructure and the necessary things, such as health protection, social protection, agriculture, economy. I would like it to be in the course of next year, to provide conditions for a better life, to provide living conditions for every part of our Serbia, that in our villages, such as the village where I come from, the village of Pluzina, can provide basic conditions, that there is a possibility for a doctor, for a nurse, to provide conditions for the waterway, for the sewerage, and, of course, that people there can easily place their products through cooperativeship. One of these things is the proposal that Mr. Vukic himself said, the proposal to give regions and districts greater opportunities, greater investment and to provide better living conditions there. Once again, I invite all people, all citizens, to support all of us who want good to Serbia. The United Peasant Party, where I am president, will surely go to elections, parliamentary, local, provinceal, normally with someone in the coalition, and we will certainly support the president of Serbia because he works for the benefit of all Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67842	Thank you. The word is Alexander Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67843	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd like to remind you of Article 1. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia that says -- the Republic of Serbia is the state of the Serbian people. This is the first thing in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and in line with that, I would like to ask the President of the Republic of Serbia and refer the question to the Government of the Republic of Serbia – what have they done and what is Serbia's reaction to the scandalous attempt to hijack SPC property in Montenegro, which is currently under way? This is not the first time in Montenegro is hitting on Serbian national identity. I remind you, one of the greatest Serbian traitors in history Milo Djukanovic has made himself a nation, made himself a language and now tries to build a church for himself, all at the expense of the Serbian people. The President of the Republic is particularly concerned about some kind of self-cephale Montenegrin Orthodox church in these days when it takes place. I remind you that Montenegro has recognised Kosovo's independence, Montenegro has entered the North Atlantic Pact, Montenegro treats Serbs as second-class citizens, and Patriarch Iriney said that the position of the Serb people today is the same as it was during the independent state of Croatia. At present, this is the position of the Serb community in Montenegro and, besides all that, there are still more than 30% of people in Montenegro who plead as Serbs, in addition to all the pressures. Montenegro, unfortunately, is not a friendly state to Serbia. Montenegro is doing everything in its power to break down Serbia's national corps and destroy and suppress Serbian identity. 2/1 AL/LZ 10.25 – 10.35 About the Serbian Orthodox Church, which is older than the state of Montenegro, the Serb people gathered during Turkish slavery, and the Serbian Orthodox Church was a homogenizing factor that helped us survive all these centuries of Turkish slavery and is one of the elements of our national identity and therefore the government of the Republic of Serbia and the government in Serbia should do everything to protect the Serb community in Montenegro, and unfortunately we see moves that go in the other direction. At a time when the Serb people are gathering at the Parliament to protest under the Mytropolis of Montenegro-Prismary Aleksandar Vukic is with Milo Djukanovic in Tirana. It is not a message that Serbs in Montenegro need, they need support. Serbs in Montenegro are being persecuted today, Montenegrin parliament MPs are being persecuted, people are being banned from entering Montenegro today, even those born there, public figures and intellectuals from Serbia, and all this goes without reaction. Serbia should protect its people living in Montenegro and this should be the priority of every government in Serbia, not only in Montenegro, but all Serbs wherever they live. To this we are bound by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the highest act to be respected, and accordingly we expect to change Belgrade's relationship with the situation in Montenegro.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67844	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's MP Mariana Marash.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67845	Thank you, President. Today, I'm going to ask the Ministry of Energy and the Ministry of Agriculture whether they intend to and are planning on some joint projects to subsidise the purchase of harvest remains, and thus helping to build smaller environments of objects for the processing of these harvest remains? Namely, when it comes to renewable energy sources, Serbia has great potential, and almost 60% of it makes biomass. Since more than 50% of energy is being spent on heating and cooling in the world, renewable energy sources are increasingly being considered. Serbia in the region is ahead of green investment, but very few funds are being allocated and very little is being used for the participation of renewable energy in heating. In fact, most heat is used as gas, lube, and coal, and only a few plants use biomass. In the region of Austria, it precedes the use of biomass as energy in heat, and all our neighbours use this energy source when it comes to district heating. The promotion of the use of this type of energy began in 2013, and in half of this year, the Energy Ministry signed the first contracts with two municipalities, including Priboj and Mali Zvornik, which will use biomass as energy and for the reconstruction of the existing district heating system. Using biomass as fuel reduces costs, and it also shows its positive effects when it comes to ecosystems and reduces our import dependence when it comes to energy use. There is good will by the ministries and also by the Energy Bank for Reconstruction and Development, KFE, the Public Investment Office, but there is not enough capacity when it comes to less environments. Another question I'd like to ask would be the Public Investment Office. Namely, can local self-government in the Vrbas municipality count on support when it comes to the construction of a water network from Vrbasa towards populated areas? Namely, inhabited areas in the Vrbas municipality are supplied with water that contains in itself illicit quantities of arsenic. These quantities are 0.08 and the quantity allowed is 0.01. The citizens rightly demand that this problem be solved. It's not a problem that's been around since yesterday, it's years ago. More in 2007, ecosystems were made to bridge this problem, but now local self-government has made it together with the government of Serbia and the KFE Bank, a project that should start implementing early next year. The water pipeline is planned to be completed for all inhabited areas by the end of 2022, since Vrbas himself has a water of extremely good quality and that water should supply all the settlements, but to complete the project there is still a lack of funds for which we have promises from the Public Investment Office that it will be compensated. That's why I'm asking the question - can we count on it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67846	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Serbia's Filipovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67847	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm asking Mrs. Zagorki Dolovac, i.e. more questions, because many questions are owed a number of answers. Is it - does it have any debt to the Alliance for Serbia, that is, to Dragan Gilas, and to numerous affairs that appear both on Gilas and on his Sundays, and on Bastac, his friends, godfathers, associates, she is silent? Mrs. Dolovac, that is, the D.A.'s office hasn't heard from any of these affairs, we haven't received any answer, no one has responded to that. How long will it take to silence the attacks on the president of the Republic of Aleksandra Vukic, on numerous lies brought about about him, on his family, on numerous lies that every day and attack on Ministry of the Interior Nebojsa Stefanovic, his father, Branko Stefanovic. Will all these lies be answered once by someone in Serbia? Will Dragan Djilas, Marinika Coban, Bosko Obradovic and other hohstuplers answer for the lies told about Minister Stefanovic and President Vukic? What happens to the Mark Bastache case after all? I don't want it to end with a few of his associates being brought in, heard, held for 48 hours, eventually, in custody and smoked home and no one at all? Publicity in Serbia and citizens of Belgrade, Old Town, Serbia wants to see results. The result must be the indictments, the result must be the processing of those people who stole the Old Town Municipality, those people who were in charge and wrapped up in black Belgrade, those people who owed Serbia, who ruined Serbia, those people who almost took millions of euros from Serbia. Also, why do such attacks go to the MUP, police and Nebojsa Stefanovic? Why is there a new conference of the Alliance for Serbia, the Marines of Coban, Bosko Obradovic and the like, whenever it is reminded of an affair on our part? It is precisely because the great fear in their ranks of what can be revealed if these cases are being prosecuted, if they end up in court, so that public attention from thieves and from all those affairs that we have talked about many times, me and my colleagues in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, then it is necessary to satanicise the maximum of Nebojsa Stefanovic and Aleksandr Vukic in order to forget all the results that have been achieved, in order to forget the record of drug confiscation in the Republic of Serbia, in order to forget the countless extraordinary and successful actions of the MUP, where numerous criminals have been arrested, numerous thieves. I'll remind you, in Serbia you no longer have a strong organised criminal group in Serbia as at the time of DS and Dragan Gilas's authorities. This is the result of the MUP and the work of Nebojska Stefanovic, as well as Alexander Vukic as president of the SNS and president of the Republic of Serbia. What are the police so afraid of? If your hands are clean, you have no reason to refuse a polygraph, nor to fear what the police will do, nor whether the prosecution will answer, and you have attacks on the police every day. All ties between Bosko Obradovic and foreign intelligence services should also be examined for the end, especially with intelligence services from Croatia, Bulgaria and possibly from other countries. I'll remind you of his contacts with the Bulgarian Ataka party, which is extremely pro-fascist, which also has certain territorial aspirations towards our republic. I will remind you of his connections with Ustasha Pernar, I will also remind you of what this false alarmer Aleksandar Obradovic was doing and the information they provide about the production of weapons from the factory Krusik, and that, behold, he accidentally worked with Bulgarian journalists, or Bulgarian intelligence associates. These are all very interesting things, and only Zagorki Dolovac, these things were not interesting in the previous period. I believe that the pressure that we all together as the public of Serbia will have to do these days and weeks and months, the next will lead to the result that the prosecution announces to start doing its job, not to repay debts to Dragan Gilas and other criminals in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67848	Thank you. The word has Tatjana Macura.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67849	Thank you, Chairman. My question today goes to the Justice Department. In the assembly procedure since March of last year, there has been a bill on the establishment of facts about missing babies from maternity homes in Serbia. This law is for the second time in the Assembly procedure from 2016 to today. On both occasions, we have a problem with the lack of adequate and public debates when this bill was in the form of a draft law. Today we have some knowledge that there is an interest of the Justice Department's representatives to write a new draft of this law, and in this regard we would like to know whether this information is correct and, if it is, we would like the Ministry of Justice to make a public call so that the interested associations of missing children could be involved in this process of writing a new bill. Likewise, various associations and representatives of civil society and a large group of MPs who, during the last public hearing, held in the Serbian Assembly, have shown great interest in this topic. So my question is specifically going to Minister Kuburovic. Whether the draft law on missing babies is in progress and, if so, we ask that a quality public debate be organised for the third time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67850	Thank you. We're moving on with our work. The word is Gjorge Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67851	Thank you. I would like to remind and reiterate the question I have referred to and related to the import of engines from the EU with inadequate ecological standards that have been, which have caused public attention and concern and I have appealed to the competent ministries to come out or start of the New Year's Eve with an announcement about what this is about. Whether to prohibit imports or otherwise punish car owners with inadequate engines, with inadequate environmental standards. The Ministry of Traffic has answered my question, so they are not in charge and that the Department of Trade is responsible and therefore this is my question now by address to the Ministry of Trade, and I am sure they will have to do so in agreement and coordination with the Ministry of Ecology. I urge that the regulation be adopted as soon as possible and due to the confusion and harassment of the public and people who have cars, which is the vast majority of Serbian citizens with these and such engines. On the other hand, that it does not happen as it usually does, that it moves for after the election, as other unpleasant things usually move after the elections, when it cannot affect the mood of the citizens. And excises when introduced and other unpopular measures, I say, are usually moved for after the election. I would therefore expect that by the beginning of the new year or the beginning of the new year, the Government will come out clearly with that view in relation to imports or possibly banning imports of engines with those standards. On the side that I think there's a lot of exaggeration and it's more than clear, and scientific research confirms it, that far from being the biggest air pollutants in Belgrade and our cities, and a lot more of these are some other contaminants, primarily industrial pollutants, thermal power plants and something else. My second question goes to the address of the president's cabinet and concerns yesterday's statement by President Aleksandar Vukic, who mentioned in an interview and said that there is an autokephane Montenegrin church, that it has been de facto and de jure since before Montenegro's independence was declared. I believe and I want to believe it's a mistake and a slip, but then it's clear and loud to deny it. So, there's no autokefal church in Montenegro. There is an NGO that, as an autokefal, is not considered even its founders, where Serbia could do so. No church recognises, a local church, a Christian and an Orthodox church does not recognise, let alone the authorities of the Serbian state. So I hope it's a slip, I hope it's a mistake, but I expect a clear denial and to say simply, there's been an unfortunate formulation, so there's no autokephal Montenegrin church, and there's not, and I don't think there's going to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67852	Thank you. We're moving on to the agenda. Following an emergency procedure, the government proposed to put on the agenda a draft bill to confirm the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on the establishment of a common border crossing of Miratovac-Lojana. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote: for – 120, against – no one, detained – one, voted 26 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. We're going over to the agenda. National MP Nemanja Sarovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board, to determine the facts regarding the murder and the political background of the murder of Zoran Djindjic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. National MP Nemanja Sarovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee, in order to establish facts concerning pressures on state authorities and violations of the law during elections for MPs in the National Assembly, held in 2016. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. National MP Bozidar Delic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on the rights of fighters and families of dead and missing fighters. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67853	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since this is the last regular session of the 11th convocation, I'm probably 21 times trying to point out one big problem for you, and we all do one big thing together for the fighters, for the people who have been across the Assembly for 81 days, in Pioneer Park, to put this bill in the process, to hold it in the assembly debate, if we have to improve it, but that finally after 28 years, the fighters have the law they deserve. I am in earlier stages, and I have urged you to also visit the park fighters and a number of MPs have done so. I can only tell you that fighters will persist in their protest and in their demands. If today is 81 days, they are ready to be there for 181 days and 280 days and wait for the 12th congregation meeting. You could probably see these people, half of whom are disabled, some with no legs, no arms, most of them wounded. They're not looking for anything special, they're looking for a national recognition, and it's not a national pension, it's a single paper that says they're supposed to write, they're fighting for their country and one, let's say, a bronze monument to the defenders of the country in 1990 and 1999 that doesn't cost much. They demand that they can be treated, especially to treat their comrades, and there are many, who can't even come to this protest in the park. They also want to review the current, say, practice of determining post-traumatic syndrome, because legal solutions so far recognise that right only up to five years, but also on the other hand, another group of psychologists say post-traumatic syndrome can occur even in that last day of life.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67854	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 26, against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Vjerica Radeta proposed that the session agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a Law amending the Family Law. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. National MP Vjerica Radeta suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. National MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – the draft law on putting out of force of the Labour Act. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. National MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic, he proposed that the agenda of the session be complemented by the points – Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on Citizenship of the Republic of Serbia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67855	We have been trying to know Serbs in Republika Srpska, Montenegro for several years now, that this initiative to amend the Law on Citizenship has improved their position and status, because the 2006 Constitution, and then the 2007 Citizenship Act, gave the possibility to anyone who declares by written declaration that he accepts the state of Serbia as his mother, creates a condition for him to also get Serbian citizenship. There are other grounds on which Serbian citizenship can be obtained, but this is a key issue primarily for Serbs in Montenegro, who are today the most endangered under anti-Serbian rule, the criminal authority of Milo Djukanovic, who wants to root out everything that is Serbian. Here, it is now part of the kidnapping of the Serbian Orthodox Church. We believe that the government has completely indolently approached this and that all the promises you made in the 2016 campaign, above all to the Serbs in Montenegro, have been let down by the fact that none of the statesmen, the official has asked how to solve this problem, but you are trying in every way possible to reach Mila Djukanovic, calling him into some kind of "small Schengen", and on the other hand absolutely every Serb in Montenegro is threatened today in one way or another. The rights of schooling Serbian children in Montenegro have been compromised, our language, our letter, our church when we celebrate 800 years of self-cephaties of the Serbian Orthodox Church. You can't keep your mouth shut, and you don't start any initiative. How is it possible for you to receive all these failed emissaries from the EU to dictate electoral conditions here, and you must not say a word against such tyranny by Milo Djukanovic. Do you know that over 90% of Serbs in Montenegro said they were members of the Serbian people over a hundred years ago. Today that number is only a third. If you change this law, if you let them get Serbian citizenship in a month, two would all go that way to take the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia. That would also be so as to bring down the project of some artificial Montenegrin nation, you would encourage Serbs in Serbia's Montenegro to raise their voice and to know that they and their children will tomorrow be safe as citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who as a queen will take care of them and their future.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67856	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote: for -11, against - no one, with abstentions, has. No proposal accepted. National MP Ruzica Nikolic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point - a bill on amendments to the Law on the transplantation of human organs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67857	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled a bill amending the Law on the Transplant of Human Authorities and the proposed amendment concerns Article 23 of this Law. The proposed changes are with the aim of abolishing the assumed consent of every adult citizen of the Republic of Serbia, as the assumed consent leaves a huge space for abuse and can lead to trafficking in human organs, although the law explicitly prohibits and treats it to a criminal act. The law stipulates that organs are taken from a deceased person unless that person has been orally or written against it and thus there is absolutely no guarantee that at that time such a person will pass on information to anyone whether or not he wants to be a donor. Also, the question of brain death when a person is practically still alive is very questionable, because we know that organs are taken from only living faces. Also, Article 23. The human organ transplant law, whose alterations we are looking for, is violated by Article 25. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which says that physical and psychological integrity is inviolable and that no one can be exposed to torture, inhuman or humiliating treatment or punishment, nor subject to medical or scientific examinations without free consent. Also, in Article 23 of this Law, Article 23 of this Law has been broken. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which says that human dignity is unhindered and that everyone is obliged to respect and protect it, and that everyone has the right to freely develop a person unless it violates the rights of others. The proposed changes are in the direction of abolishing the assumed consent to donate human organs in the event of brain death and we insist precisely on abolishing and assuming consent, i.e. we are asking for the amendment of an anti-constitutional member of the 23rd law, because the law cannot impose something contrary to the Constitution and the donation of organs to be transplanted is possible only if it is exclusively the will of the donor. A donor can't be called someone whose organs are taken apart from his will.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67858	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find the proposal not accepted. National MP Filip Stojanovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – draft law supplementing the Law on Border Control. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67859	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted a bill on amendments to the Law on Border Control and I demand that it be included in today's session agenda. It is known to all that the most important characteristics of each country are its internationally recognised borders that separate it from other countries, or its neighbours. The state of Serbia has defined and internationally recognised borders towards its neighbours. The borders of the Serbian state towards its southern neighbour, i.e. Albania, have been defined by Resolution 1244, brought by the United Nations Security Council. Unfortunately, Serbia is one of the few countries that has violently kidnapped part of the territory by 19 NATO pact states, as well as some other states that want to legalise the state of occupation and to declare Kosovo's and Metohija's borders according to the rest of Serbia as international borders. We do not blame the current regime for this situation in which Kosovo and Metohija have found themselves, but we blame ourselves for something else. Namely, the leading authorities of the Republic of Serbia must constantly insist on Resolution 1244 guaranteeing the integrity of the state territory of the Republic of Serbia. But so far, we have not seen this regime insist on Resolution 1244 and we find that inadmissible. I remind you that according to Resolution 1244, Serbia has the right to deploy thousands of members of its security forces at the border towards Albania. I will always ask all regimes to insist on respecting Resolution 1244. This resolution guarantees the integrity of the territory of the Republic of Serbia and does not speak of any division or demarcation. It is the attitude of all Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija. This team before the international circumstances slowly change in our favour and I am convinced that we will not wait long for the day when Kosovo and Metohija will be re-integrated with the rest of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, there should be no compromise on state territory, while other topics can be discussed with Albanians. On this point, the regime must be uncompromising, not agreeing to any negotiations or arrangements on this subject. That's why we have the Constitution of Serbia, we have Resolution 1244 and we have Russia and China with us. I believe that the adoption of this law that I have proposed will create clear assumptions and necessity as soon as possible to put the occupied part of our territory under our full control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67860	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find the proposal not accepted. National MP Tomislav Ljubenovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on financial support for the family with children. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67861	Thank you, Chairman. I submitted a bill amending and supplementing the Financial Support Act for the family with children to be completed on the agenda. Financial support to families with children in terms of the exercise of rights under this law would help improve the conditions for meeting the basic needs of children in families with children who are unable to achieve this on their own, and the number of such families is increasing. The adoption of the proposed amendments and additions would put an outside force of the discriminatory provision of the applicable law, which has been defined as having the right to a child's and parent's allowance only for the first, second, third and fourth children. Every child, regardless of the order of birth, must be treated equally with all the legal regulations of the Republic of Serbia, which would ensure the family's partial financial security with more children. The Republic of Serbia has been facing major demographic problems for the last decades, and one of the biggest demographic problems is the insufficient number of newborn children. The number of newborns is much lower than the number of deceased, leading to a negative natural growth. A large number of young people leaving the country have been reported, so the share of the old population in the total population has been greatly increased. The law on financial support for families with children would have a significant impact on solving one of the biggest demographic problems, which is an insufficient number of newborn children. The adoption of these changes and additions would create a basis for encouraging the birth of children and for financial empowerment of families with children who would motivate parents to stay in Serbia, to stop the trend of mass departure from Serbia. Demographic problems are great, and one of the largest is an insufficient number of newborn children. The number of newborns is much lower than the number of deceased, leading to a negative natural growth. When we add to that the mass departure of young and middle-aged people, it is clear that the government would have to react urgently if the situation wanted to be improved. If it continues to deafen itself from this proposal, it means that the authorities did not care what Serbia's future will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67862	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find the proposal not accepted. National MP Dubravko Bojic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on psychoactive controlled substances. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67863	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my proposal to supplement today's session's agenda concerns the Law on psychoactive controlled substances or, to be precise, the destruction of those psychoactive substances that are not for further use. Gentlemen from the congregation majority on my left, I appeal to you and appeal to your conscience to ease your firm attitude about not accepting everything that comes from the only constructive opposition party in the Serbian Parliament and to put this proposal on the agenda, which, by the way, is devoid of any ideology and politics, as regards human health. Ladies and gentlemen, drug business is a very lucrative business. Our people recognize it well, and it's no wonder that people from this area are involved in the biggest drug business. I'll just count some. The biggest drug confiscation in history was the one in Philadelphia, when a boat of 15 tonnes of cocaine was seized worth over a billion dollars, and there was a sailor on that ship from these areas, a certain Djurasevic. Our people were also involved in drugs dumped by the Danube at the Romanian port of Constanta, worth over 300m euros, as well as similar quantities in Germany, when 300m euros in drug values were packed in banana cardboard. Not to mention the one taken away in Spain, France, South America. The other day, you probably heard, the U.S. DEA marked a certain Serb named Tito, I don't know just this nickname, as the greatest and uncrupulous cocaine king who overshadowed a Hoakim Guzman, a Mexican cocaine king, far more famous than El Chapo. If it weren't just men involved in these affairs, I'd mention two times when there are ladies. A certain Banja Luka woman with a huge amount of drugs in Australia and a Macedonian actress who was discovered with 700 tons of cocaine the other day. However, our experts assume that this is the time of synthetic drugs that are wholly native, because they are made from plants produced here in laboratories that are thousands. The consequences of these drugs are loose associations, hallucinations, euphoria, unrelated talk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67864	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 20, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Zoran Despotovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67865	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today is the 440th day since the SRS submitted the Bill on Amendments to the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development. The reason for the adoption of the law is that by increasing cash amounts for milk premiums, the state stimulates producers in order to improve the situation of farmers through concrete moves. It is also necessary to reduce the lower limit of the quantity of milk per quarter to which the premium is made to reduce areas with difficulty in production, especially where undeveloped areas are and where exclusively important incentives are. In order to improve the status of farmers, this law should increase the monetary amount of incentives for plant production, the monetary amount allocated per hectare of farmland, because the plant production sector is very important for farmers. The amendments to the laws submitted by the SRS on incentives in agriculture and rural development will significantly improve and foster sustainability and improvement of the livestock fund. Article 1 The draft law is amended in Article 15. Incentives in agriculture and rural development, paragraph 3. – as the lower limit for cow’s milk premium is reduced by reducing from 1,500 to 1,000 liters, so that farmers with reduced agricultural conditions with less yields can also exercise the right to a premium. In the same article, item 4. The law on incentives in agriculture and rural development is amended by predicting an increase in milk premiums from seven dinars per litre of milk to 10 dinars per litre. Article 2 Proposal for a law, in Article 18(1). The law on incentives in agriculture and rural development changes the amount of basic incentives for plant production, so that the existing solution which provides that the amount of incentives per hectare can amount to up to 6,000 dinars, changes the solution according to which the amount of incentives per hectare can be at least 9,000 dinars. I would like to stress that agriculture in Serbia is far from optimal through various reports and statistics, so that our domestic agrarian does not go a growth rate, as well as foreign trade and productivity, and does not participate in the gross social product. Historically, agriculture plays an important role in economic and social development, but only with 17% of full-time farmers who produce food for all citizens. Today, most consumers have little to do with the natural processes in which food is produced. According to some agrarian analysts, the optimal model of sustainable agricultural growth for which Serbia has potential accounts for an average rate of 4% to 5%, so that for the next 10 years the modest rate of agricultural production growth achieved by Serbia in the previous period has globally only the poorest countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67866	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Sreto Peric suggested that the session agenda be completed with a point – a bill to put an end to the law on enforcement and security. Here you go. Do you want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67867	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS will not give up submitting this proposal for amending and supplementing the law, that is to say, putting aside the law on enforcement, as long as there are such public ones, I would say privately, perpetrators who leave behind the desolation in Serbia. The perpetrators, in effect, lost their sense of not modesty, but of reality. We are being conducted by some unknown and completely unclear actions against the citizens of Serbia, and recently cases of animal abuse have been recorded when the owner of animals is banned from access due to unfairly deprived domestic animals. And then what happens? There's been a humanitarian disaster. It's not enough for you either, it's not enough for you to have a number, I'd say, the suicides of those of whom their property was wrongly taken, and you're still standing in front of those blind and silent. We're trying, and we're trying to get the executive procedure back into the justice system. Namely, and now one part of it is to pass a judicial verdict related to enforcement, it is in the jurisdiction of the judicial authorities, and after that it is mainly, excluding family disputes and disputes from working relationship being resolved with judicial perpetrators, everything else goes into jurisdiction, we can say, automatically, by private perpetrators, although the law treats them as public enforcers, and therefore also hairdressers, bakers, butchers, all of them could be public. It's not for no reason to prefix "public," just to cover things up completely there. In order to make sense, private contractors also organize their regular annual counseling. Most of the time, the judge is independent and independent in making court decisions, but he makes an account for his work. Private accountants shall be appointed by the Minister of Justice and the Chamber of Conductors. The executioner's chamber is also their esnafian body and then there is no efficiency and successful fight against unconscious perpetrators. What happens next when the Code of Conduct of Private Executors was adopted in 2016? He doesn't apply. Anyway, what's in the jurisdiction of private contractors, it has emergency treatment, and when it happens that those who are damaged, obviously if, say, the landlord was the owner of the apartment and he had an unconscious tenant's apartment, he had to stay in debt, he must have the owner of the apartment to prove that what was in the apartment was owned by him.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67868	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 14 against. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Nikola Savic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on textbooks. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67869	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is who knows which time at regular meetings on behalf of the SRS I submit a proposal for this law. The more I endure and explain the proposal for this law, the more practice shows that I am right, because we have such a situation that in this area, in the textbook market, the government is making a mess. The essence of what I asked for by my bill is to tighten the criteria for issuing a write-and-print license. In fact, today's textbooks are written by everyone, betraying everyone and everyone, I can say, making their choice. In Serbia's textbook market, the monopoly is held by Croatian and Slovenian firms, and therefore no wonder the situation is like this. We're not for a single company, even if it's domestic, to hold a monopoly, and in this area there should be some competition, but it's simply unacceptable that the Department of Publishing textbooks and curricula covers only about 2% of our market. This is particularly important when it comes to textbooks that process national history and national culture. We've seen lately, all the media have been writing about how in one historical textbook, it's been working on who were the lambs and what were the lambs. I wouldn't say that again right now. That's a lot to be said about. One fact that the public has not followed enough refers to the fact that the Council of Europe has made a recommendation to write a common textbook for European peoples, especially for the peoples of these areas, the peoples of the Balkans. In that sense, the minister of our education, Mr. Sarcevic, was at a conference in Paris where he literally agreed to it, where in his statement to the domestic media, he said it was a good thing because it would shed one more real light, especially on our new history, on these events of the 1990s here, and what we all know about it. What kind of historical textbooks would it be if we knew that it was about the 100th anniversary of World War I, we saw what treatment the president of Serbia had in that same Paris in that same France. So these are things we can't possibly agree to, otherwise it certainly doesn't say well to this country either, or... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67870	I'm putting this motion to the vote. Finalising vote: for – 13 MPs. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Nikola Savic suggested that the agenda be completed by a point – a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on road safety. Does MP Nikola Savic want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Nikola Savic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67871	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this bill on road safety, which I submit as an addition to the agenda of every regular session, is one, let's say, thing that doesn't require any effort, no money, just a fraction of the attention of those who take care of this. It is, in effect, traffic regulation at intersections where a member of the law is unsettled. So, when these possible car accidents occur, it's simply not possible by literally interpreting this member of the law to determine the real culprit of the accident and the accident itself, so that it leads to endless disputes. Traffic experts interpret this in one way, the legal experts of this interpretation in another way, and this can be regulated very, very easily and easily. Now we know for ourselves that in the procedure of changing and supplementing this Law on traffic safety on the roads and when I looked at those changes and additions, I hoped they would cover what I was talking about. Unfortunately, that's not there. Speaking of this traffic, I want to say this. It's a good thing this government is making highways, which makes corridors, and in this respect, there's really nothing to take away, not even to add. However, as I come from Nis, a large number of objections from the citizens of Nis is precisely in this regard, the construction of these highways, i.e. toll ramps, and as much as we have in Belgrade, we have a situation in which the "Tubanj stream" payment ramp is drawn from the city about 10km south of Vrčina, in Nis we have a completely reverse situation. So, the Nais payment ramp, which was built 40 years ago, is also moving about ten kilometers, though south, as well as the drum stream payment ramp, but is moving towards the city itself. Literally, this payment ramp is moving at the very entrance to the town of Nis, into the city's core alone, about 300, 400 meters from the entrance to the Konstantin Veli airport. It's not just this payment ramp, it's other payment ramps, so Nis is literally closed with three or four sides, tolls currently being built, and it won't be possible to use... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67872	I'm putting this motion to the vote. Finalising vote: for – 11 MPs. National MP Miroslav Stankovic Đuričić suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Biomedical Aided Insemination Act. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for - one MP. National MP Aleksandar Seselj suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point - the draft law on executive procedure and security.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67873	Ladies and gentlemen, on 17 September, the SRS proposed a new draft law on executive procedure and security. So, after three months after the SRS handed over more than 100,000 signatures of Serbian citizens to abolish public enforcement, the ruling majority in the Serbian Parliament did not respond, neither did the Ministry of Justice, and you had an obligation to respect those people who signed the petition. In less than two months, we've managed to collect more than 100,000 signatures. And what you refuse to put on the agenda, this topic, and that this new law is being discussed shows that you don't respect these citizens and that you insult them with your behavior. Since 2011, when public executioners have been introduced to this day we have witnessed all the machinations, crime and abductions, honor of exceptions, but in most cases so. You who once, I think of the SNS, voted against the introduction of the perpetrators, acted against the introduction of the perpetrators, today you support them, they have a completely ruling majority and the SNS behind them, they have the MUP behind them, in their operation. There are many examples of their actions in Serbia, from those most drastic ones where they were charged both from wheelchairs and other tools for disabled people to the exorcision of severely ill elderly people and single parents, to fraud, where people did not know in the municipality that they were in debt, or how much they owed. So there are various things in Serbia that show disrespect for human rights and disrespect for human dignity. It all goes without any reaction from the authorities and you fully support it. One of the biggest problems facing daily Serbian citizens is public executioners. Instead of you reforming the courts, hiring more bailiffs, raising their salaries, tying their salaries to effect and executing them under the control of the court, you gave jurisdiction to a private person who thus usurped the jurisdiction of the court, self-determining his tariffs, uninterruptedly wealthy. With all that, he's got the M.O.P. and the police to himself. Keep in mind that you are responsible for their actions and that your behaviour shows insult to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67874	I'm putting this motion to the vote. Finalising vote: for - ten MPs. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Petar Jojic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – the draft law on repealing the Law on Public Registration. Does MP Petar Jojic want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67875	Madam President, ame and the people's MPs, Serbia cleared up with public notebooks in 1945. The organisation of public notebooks nowadays, in Serbia, is harmful to Serbian citizens because the tariffs of public notebooks differ significantly five to ten times compared to the tariffs they had and applied to courts. Ladies and gentlemen, the SRS is pleased that the first passenger plane flew to Kraljev airport with passengers where they wanted to, but we Serbian radicals wonder when others would fly where they didn't want to go and where they belong. Our people know where. Well, of course, they belong in prison. Ladies and gentlemen, every democratic and legally regulated state is based on the rule of law, which must also be pursued by Serbia, and that it adopts good laws that will apply in practice. In order to achieve these objectives, the Serbian Radical Party proposes and points to the current government: firstly, to resolve corrupt ministers in the Serbian government and all in these resolutions that are corrupt and are working on the damage of the state, secondly, to increase the number of members of the police of the operational system by 10,000 members who will work more effectively to detect and shed light on the serious crimes in the areas of economic and financial crime, to immediately resolve unprofessional and corrupt public prosecutors and corrupt and unprofessional judges, to carry out centralisation of the public prosecutions for more effective criminal proceedings, to return the previous organisation of courts, in principle, one court - one municipality, to increase wages to honorable, honest and unsullied judges, in order to avoid corruption in any case. Ladies and gentlemen, further, to level court practice, which is different, even in one court, to increase the responsibility of the President of the Courts for the legitimate work of judges and court employees, to increase the number of judges in appeals, administrative, economic courts, in order to... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67876	Time. Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Finalising vote: for - nine MPs. Ambassador Petar Jojic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – the draft law amending and supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67877	Ladies and gentlemen, in any case, Serbia must make good laws. I said earlier that it was necessary to increase the number of judges in the second-degree procedure, and above all in the appeals, administrative and economic courts, in order to increase greater awareness and efficiency in the appeal procedure, because citizens are waiting once for a second-degree verdict for five years. That the presidents of the courts are delivering six months of reports on the work of the courts, but to the National Assembly, to abolish the provisions of the Health Law, which allows for unprecedented corruption, because it is legalized to receive bribes, so that you will have chicken, 100g coffee, 100 euros, 1,000 euros and a pair of oxen, so that someone can operate and pay and bribe the relevant judges. Ladies and gentlemen, the Serbian Radical Party supports all efforts taken by the government in that direction when it comes to curbing corruption and crime. In practice, however, this is not being implemented. He looks forward to what the President of the Republic said yesterday that we have corruption at the bar and that public prosecutors must take action. Whether it ends or not, we'll see in practice. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Panchevo has about 100 sports clubs and societies with more than 1,000 members. I ask the question and ask the answer - is it true that an individual athlete from Pancheva receives 1 million euros per year from the budget of the city of Pancheva, i.e. 40% of the projected budget for sports in Panchev? That's four years. If that's true, ladies and gentlemen, that money could buy 266 tractors at the cost of 15,000 euros and give to the citizens, to build eight kindergartens, as it is known that there is a waiting list in Panchev. It could be paid for 31,500 pensions or a disability of 15,000 dinars. Since I'm not being answered by that long-standing parliamentary question... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67878	Thank you. You've wasted your time. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Finalising vote: for – 11 MPs. Ambassador Petar Jojic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Code. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67879	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as a rule of law, Serbia needs good laws to be passed. I would have continued what I wanted to point out earlier and to meet Pančevci and the MPs, as I was not answered a long-standing parliamentary question from six months ago, which referred to the robbery at Pancheva pharmacy for one billion and 30 million dinars, asking the question and asking for an answer – is it true or not? If that is true, ladies and gentlemen, for that amount of money it was possible to buy for farmers 560 tractors at a cost of 15,000, according to the President of the Republic, Mr Alexander Vukic, that at that price farmers are offered to buy tractors, out of which 7,000 euros is given by the state. So it could have been at a cost of 15,000 euros or it could have paid 66,500 pensions and a disability of 15,000 dinars. Is it true that 17 million dinars were paid from the Pancheva budget, i.e. 145,000 euros to paint a public toilet in Pancheva? Is it true that the painting of the public defender's office in Panchev's 85 square-square area paid nine million dinars? And will the current government take appropriate measures? We expect the competent authorities, and it has been heard today by SNS deputies that they have objections to public prosecutors who are not taking appropriate measures when it comes to the prosecution of perpetrators of criminal acts and thus finally dealing with corruption and crime in this country. I order, gentlemen of the SNS, you have major crime at the bar.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67880	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Finalising vote: for – 10 MPs. The MP, Dr Miladin Ševarlic, suggested that the session agenda be supplemented by a point – a proposal for a declaration on genetically modified organisms and products from GMOs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67881	Thank you. Before I explain the proposal to supplement the agenda, I would like to express by who knows which way to support General Delic for his law on the protection of the position and rights of war veterans. In addition to that support, which every national-oriented MP should express, I have done something else. I asked the President of the Republic of Alexander Vukic to receive war veterans who are practically in his backyard, or in the middle between the National Assembly and the President of the Republic. It's probably been three weeks. That's not what happened today. I again ask the President of the Republic to receive war veterans until Christmas, so that Christmas will not be welcomed under tents in the park, because they did not deserve it as defenders of our country. Also today is the 954th day since I proposed a declaration against imports, cultivation, processing and transport of genetically modified organisms. At each of the previous sessions, I proposed to supplement the agenda, since the text of that declaration and the text of a similar declaration, adopted by Green Serbia, was adopted by more than 7,000 council members in the 136 municipalities and cities of the Republic of Serbia or 80.5% of the 169 local self-government in the territory of central Serbia and Vojvodina. Unfortunately, there have been 11 votes up until now. Neither those MPs who voted at the time of the adoption of these 136 declarations in municipalities or cities were presidents or councils in those municipalities, nor the representatives of the parties declaring themselves declared to protect agriculture, do not all who, as consumers, have to make sure that children and heirs do not happen to them what Professor Seralini and his team of researchers found in 2012. We should therefore be concerned that, instead of adopting this declaration, an amendment to the Food Safety Act has been made and that animals, despite the Animal Welfare Act, are more protected than humans, because genetically modified food, according to these supplements, has been defined as genetically modified food and genetically modified animal food... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67882	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. (Miladin Ševarlic: Let me finish the sentence.) You talked for 20 seconds or minutes about other topics. You've wasted your time. That's not my fault. I conclude the vote: three MPs voted for it. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Ambassador Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – the draft law supplementing the law on the selection of MPs. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. Ambassador Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on planning and arrangement of space and settlements. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. Ambassador Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a motion for a resolution of the National Assembly on the recognition and condemnation of genocide against Armenians committed in the Ottoman Empire between 1915 and 1922. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Finalising vote: for – one. Ambassador Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the points – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Higher Education. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. Ambassador Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances that led to the illegal withdrawal of the permit for the work of the Action Society for Insurance "Such Insurance" Kragujevac. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting the vote on the proposal by Zorana Zivkovic to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a law supplementing the Government Act. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting the vote on the proposal by Zorana Zivkovic to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the financing of political activities. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting to the vote Zoran Zivkovic's proposal to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a law supplementing the Act on the election of the President of the Republic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting the vote on the proposal by Zoran Zivkovic to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the selection of MPs. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting the vote on the proposal by Zoran Zivkovic to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Labour Act. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to put to the vote the motion of Parliamentarian Aleksandar Stevanović to supplement the agenda of the session to the point – the draft law amending the Law on the Budgetary System. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to put to the vote the motion of Parliamentarian Aleksandar Stevanović to supplement the agenda of the session to the point – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Order and Peace. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to put to the vote the motion of Parliamentarian Aleksandar Stevanović to supplement the agenda of the session to the points – Proposal for a Law amending the Criminal Code. I conclude the vote: for - one MP. I am putting to the vote the motion by Ambassador Aleksandr Stevanović to supplement the agenda of the session to the point – Proposal for a law supplementing the Criminal Code. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting on the vote of the proposal to supplement the agenda of the session – Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Selection of Members of the People's Parliaments. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to put on the vote by MP Vladimir Đurić to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a law amending the Law on the financing of political activities. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to put to the vote a proposal from Tatjana Macura to complete the agenda of the session with the point – Proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on financial support for the family with children. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting on the vote on Tatjana Macura's proposal to complete the agenda of the session with a point – Proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on referendums and the People's Initiative. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting on the vote on Tatjana Macura's proposal to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Family Violence. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting the vote on Tatjana Macura's proposal to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the legality of the SNS donation for the 2017 presidential election campaign. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. National MP Marijan Risticevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to identify the facts and circumstances related to the business of cable operators, the broadcasting of cross-border channels, the broadcasting of domestic advertising in content of cross-border channels and other irregularities related to electronic media and cable operators controlled by Dragan Gilas, Dragan Šolak and David Petreus. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67883	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for almost a year I've been looking for this kind of... May I have your attention, please? So, for a year now, I have been asking for the establishment of a polling committee and an examination of the business of Dragan Solak, Dragan Djilas, as well as Yugoslavia's Cosic. It is known to all of us that Yugoslavia Ćosic has received 249 thousand euros from the US Embassy, that he has received money, British pounds, 335 000 and is actively working, not against ruling parties, but is actively working against the state. We do not have a misunderstanding with the opposition, we continue to argue that the misunderstanding with the opposition's part is not about their rights in parliament, but that they are doing so for reasons to protect the business of Šolak and Gilas, which is measured in Serbia by hundreds of millions of euros. The subscription money, our subscribers, which in Serbia has 900 000 for SBB, they use fake cross-border channels also owned by Dragan Solak, SBB, United Group, United Media, and they pump the money from the subscription to fake cross-border televisions that are not registered in Serbia, but in Luxembourg, where they do not broadcast the programme. When there's no broadcast, there can be no re-emissioning. So it's just a cover to pump up money, not to pay money on ads in the Republic of Serbia, and to take away, by taking the advertising market to domestic registered media, they bring it into an independent position and so Cholak and Gilas re-rule all the electronic media. After unregistered television channels, which are over 20, which are fictitiously registered in Luxembourg and which are used to pump money, we have recently received fake newspapers, unregistered newspapers, which have neither publishers nor editor-in-chief. Like these TVs, fake, cross-border, who want foreign television to influence the pre-election program and broadcast pre-election ads, so this paper can't be sued, because they don't have a publisher or editor. That's why I'm asking for a survey committee to be set up on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67884	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Finalizing vote: for - nine MPs. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Marijan Risticevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's National Assembly to determine the facts and circumstances related to visits to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia of certain extremist organisations and individuals. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67885	I didn't quite hear what the agenda was. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I hope it's an international court. (Vladimir Orlic: extremist organizations. ) Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the marbles do not hear exactly the announced proposals. In time, Bosko Ljotic, the holder of the list of genetically modified organisms, hosted Bulgaria's "Ataku" Boška Pernar, therefore, the leader of some organisations that have no good intentions towards the Republic of Serbia. Bulgaria's Ataka even bids on some territories that are undoubtedly the territory of the Serbian state. After hanging out with them, he himself became an extremist organization and moves and his extremist organization and the entire Alliance for Serbia, you can see every day wildling in the streets of our capital, and for God's sake some other cities in the Republic of Serbia. Bosko Ljotic, Bosko Žutić, has taken over the habits of these extremists, so I think he should be the object of the attention of our organs that should prevent further savagery, the rip-off of traffic signs, the break-in of the RTS motor saw, the rampage of the National Assembly, the attempt to break the door with a flag, or spear, of the Republic of Serbia. For the flag, our peasants, our ancestors, bled and did not deserve to humiliate not only the flag, but the flag is a symbol of the state of Serbia, the flag is a symbol of the people and other national minorities living in the territory and living in the Republic of Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen, this is his MP, to whom he was the bearer of the list, asking for days for a declaration of genetically modified organisms. The declaration is not a legally binding document. To remind our viewers, first of all because of them, that there is a Law on genetically modified organisms that is legally binding document, unlike declaration, which means that it produces a legal obligation. It says, in Article 2, that the cultivation and transport of genetically modified organisms in the territory of the Republic of Serbia is prohibited. Mr. Ševarlic, whose list holder was Bosko Ljotic, has been misusing the pay phone for days and says he only advocates banning genetically modified organisms. They are forbidden by law, and our viewers need to know that it is absolutely unnecessary what he is looking for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67886	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for - 11 MPs, against - no one, abstentioned - no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MPs Saša Radulović, Branka Stamenković and Vojin Biljic suggested that the agenda of the session be complemented by a point - Proposal for a law on the termination of the law on the establishment of public interest and special procedures for the expropriation and issue of a building permit, for the realisation of the project "Belgrade on Water". Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67887	Thank you, Chairman. "Enough" has been boycotting the Assembly sessions for a long time, due to the conditions of work of the Assembly and the insult of the MPs, disrespect for the basic rules. Here, we're back today, in this prep section, to see if anything's changed. I have one thing to commend. Finally, suggestions for supplementing the agenda are read in order, or called MPs in a row, and that is the progress I must commend. On the other hand, it seems to continue to insult opposition MPs, which is really not a good thing. We also listen to the media as the EU boasts it will bring us better conditions for elections and a better democratic atmosphere. Here, my beard grew waiting for that to happen, so we came here today to check it out in the Assembly, because I really don't understand what the EU promises, when we can solve all the problems in the Assembly itself. As far as this "Belgrade on Water" Lex is concerned, "Enough" suggests that this Lex specialis be abolished. This lex specialis is completely bypassed by the Expropriation Act. Citizens should know that the Expropriation Act speaks of land being taken from private owners if there is any public interest. For example, the public interest would be to build a road, the public interest would be all that concerns all citizens of Serbia. This law, lex specialises on "Belgrade on Water" completely bypassed the Expropriation Act and introduced a small door that private investor who builds "Belgrade on Water" can rely on this expropriation and reach land and drive out private owners. This is something that should not be allowed in the state of Serbia. The "Belgrade on Water" is about 100 hectares of land probably located in the most attractive location in the Balkans. The value of the land is over a billion euros. What we have is an amazing agreement between our government and a private investor who's supposed to be from the UAE, where he gets that land for free. It can start building and selling apartments in advance, instead of paying those billions of euros and actually financing the entire project from the previous sale of apartments. If an urban plan were to be done, it would evaporate and bid each single piece of land, it would bring over a billion euros to the budget. While I was the minister of no Arab I met who allegedly invests in Serbia. There were two law offices in Belgrade and Mladjan Dinkic who negotiated those deals. I think this law should be abolished, that it's not a public interest, the private interest of a private investor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67888	Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for - four MPs. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Representatives Sasa Radulović, Branka Stamenkovic and Vojin Biljic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on Local Elections. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67889	Thank you. Fair and fair elections are the foundation and basis of democracy. Democracy does not work if there is no fair and fair choice, if the elections are stolen, if the elections vote dead and vote "people who are not even in the country". We have four proposals here today, four electoral laws that need to be moved, or put forward proposals for solutions in the area of voting for the dead. We have 6.8 million voters, approximately, in the polling list, there are about five million ID cards in Serbia. So we have a big difference between those two numbers. This is not just about these governments, this has been about previous governments, and for governments during the 1990s and no government has ever found appropriate to correct this problem we have. What we have established in several choices that we have come up with so far is that people who have passed away really vote and that people who are not in the country are voting at the moment of the elections. We have found this in the polls themselves, or in control after the elections in certain polling stations, where I personally found people with their home numbers, deceased citizens of the Republic of Serbia whose name stands the signature and turns out to have voted in those elections. The way to change this is: one - to fix the voter lists, two - to have an Internet presentation of the ministry through which today each voter can by typing his home number to check the polling place where he votes, that after the election and check whether his vote is recorded. So, any citizen of the Republic of Serbia can check if someone else voted for them in one of the polling stations. This would remove one big doubt about the regularity of the election. Our problem was when, let's say, we found out that the dead voted or that they voted non-EU citizens the moment someone signed up for them at the polling station. We couldn't determine these facts during the controls, we couldn't even photograph it, because it was banned within the RIK itself, but we were only able to report it to the D.A.'s office, where we wrote what we discovered. After that, the D.A. didn't react, didn't question the allegations, and it all went away as if nothing had happened. With this amendment of the law, we suggest that this problem be resolved, that it be resolved by citizens being able to have insight and what they will be able to verify whether someone voted for them. This would be a big step forward in getting citizens to accept that election conditions are not faked and there are no thefts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67890	Thank you, Mr. Radulovich. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, the abstentioned, is among the 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MPs Sasa Radulovic, Branka Stamenkovic and Vojin Biljic, on the basis of Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Selection of National MPs, which was submitted to the National Assembly by Parliament of the People, Sasa Radulović, on 15 November 2017. Here you go, Mr. Radulovich.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67891	Thank you, Chairman. This is the second of the four laws I've announced since these changes I'm talking about have to be implemented in all the laws. So, the problem is fair electoral conditions and preventing theft in polling stations. The reason why the opposition threatens to boycott the next election is not because we do not want elections, our fight is not for boycott, the fight is for fair and fair electoral conditions. One of these conditions is certainly to prevent the theft of votes. It consists of more than one thing. One of the things is that the elections vote dead and vote people who aren't in the country. We have a sea of examples that show it. Unfortunately, the D.A.'s office isn't responding, and we're also prevented at polling stations that the evidence we found is actually documenting to make it harder for the D.A.'s office to control the election. Probably the citizens don't know, if we find one dead who voted, that means the elections are irregular in that polling post, and that gives the impression, or the citizens know that something irregular is happening. This is in the interest of all of us, because we all want that when the elections are over, the results to be undeniable and to be accepted by everyone. It is interesting that the EU, now trying to prevent a boycott in every way and helping the ruling majority to manage, ignore all these requirements and talk about some completely peripheral things. The reason for the boycott, or threat to the boycott, is to achieve fair and fair electoral conditions. For example, taking part in a boxing match where your hands and legs are tied is something that after these choices they can rightly tell you – that you have accepted these conditions, then you must accept the result. The change of things is simple, it is in the interest of all Serbian citizens, it is in the interest of all citizens, whether they vote for power or vote for opposition, is that we have fair electoral conditions, that their vote be numbered and that there is no theft, that there is no intimidation of voters in polling stations, there is no purchase of votes, there are no Bulgarian trains, there is no voting of the dead and there is no vote of people who are not in the country when the elections are held. This proposal we made is easy to implement. Our voter list has 6.8 million people, and our IDs and documents are about five million. This tells you about the big difference between the people who exist in the voter's list and the ones who can really vote. No one checks after the election whether dead people voted, whether people who were out of the country voted, and this proposal by the DJB is in fact to resolve the issue once and for all through a simple Internet presentation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67892	Thank you, Mr. Radulovich. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is none, for four, against the abstentions, of the 145 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MPs Sasa Radulovic, Branka Stamenkovic and Vojin Biljic, on the basis of Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a draft law on the termination of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the UAE, which was submitted to the National Assembly by MP Sasa Radulovic on 15 November 2017. Here you go, Mr. Radulovich.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67893	This law favours foreign investors. This time investors from the UAE. The conditions of domestic businesses are placed in one position where they do not have even the approximate opportunities that foreign investors have. Serbia is turning into a colony of cheap labour in which we favour all possible foreign investors and put domestic economy in an unequal position. This is not only the government's policy, but the policy of both previous authorities and the DJB, with its programme, foresees that the practice should be interrupted. So the conditions have to be equal. What we have in Serbia is one subsidisation of foreign investors in every way possible. It's not just about 10,000-euro subsidies per job that most German companies receive today in Serbia, where workers pay 200, 300 euros per employee, but it's about the allocation of building land, the construction of infrastructure, things that a domestic investor can only dream of. So we need to get out of that vasal position. Citizens are unlikely to know that these direct foreign investments we have been talking about in the last 15 years have led to a profit of 2.5 billion euros per year from Serbia. So rich countries and their corporations draw 2.5 billion euros annually from poor Serbia, under quotes, and thus practically build their profits. This is the result of a devastating foreign investor privilege policy. The largest number of foreign investors come from Germany today and they open up cheap labour factories, mainly for cable rollovers, and this specific law applies to UAE, refers to investments such as "Belgrade on Water", "Bačka" from Sivac, then, in Karadjordjevo they got land, etc. None of these investments gave an estimated result that was promised when these investments were praised to citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Whoever lives in Sivac or in that part of Backa can check the situation with all these Arab investments, where it's practically asphyxiated by a domestic farmer, domestic agricultural landowners and favour the corporation where our people mostly work, which leads us to the fact that it's not the UAE, but it's about washing our money that's coming, or being laundered through the UAE. There is an international financial organisation called Global Financial Integratedity, which determines how much money is drawn from some countries, four billion euros are drawn from Serbia annually, over a period of 10 years, that's 40 billion euros in withdrawal of money, that's Serbia's GDP, meaning the entire economy within 10 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67894	Thank you, Mr. Radulovich. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – four, against – no one, with abstentions – has, of 145. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MPs Sasa Radulovic, Branka Stamenkovic and Vojin Biljic, on the basis of Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Judges, which was submitted to the National Assembly by MP Sasa Radulovic on 15 November 2017. Here you go, Mr. Radulovich.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67895	Thank you. We had in the Law on Judges a provision that said that the Presidents of the Court, just like the President of the Supreme Court of Cassation, were elected for five years, that they could not be re-elected, and for all judges was the same archaic when they retired. So, once the terms are met, they have to retire. We had this in the laws, and then the ruling majority of 2017 brought a change to the special treatment of the President of the Court. So, even what doesn't have the President of the Supreme Cassation Court has been introduced for the presidents of the courts, which is that their term is four years, and that after four years they can be elected to another term, so if they are somewhere at the end of the working century, that the judge's office does not stop getting retirement terms but ends when they run out of deadlines set for the President of the Court. The big problem in Serbia is the judiciary. This problem is seen as affecting all branches of government, and in this case above all, it affects judicial authority. In this way you get the situation that the party in power manages the courts, and one of the main levers in the management of the courts are the presidents of the courts, who, through these legal changes, are allowed, in fact, by the parties, to manipulate the presidents of the courts, and to place them in a privileged position, compared to all the other judges. We suggest that this change be changed, i.e. that this change from 2017 should be abolished and we should return to the original solution, which says that for the presidents of the courts, just as for the President of the Supreme Casual Court and all the other judges, the same archisch is true, and that the term of office of the President of the Court is five years, a little longer than the mandate of the Assembly, in order to achieve some independence, i.e. there is no direct link between the ruling majority and the president of the courts. The second is that, as for all judges and presidents of the courts, when conditions for retirement are obtained, that the office of the President of the Court ceases. We think this change would actually help bring about greater independence of the judiciary. This is just one of the series of changes needed to really establish an independent judiciary in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67896	Thank you, Mr. Radulovich. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – no one with abstention – has, of 145. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MPs Sasa Radulovic, Branka Stamenkovic and Vojin Biljic, on the basis of Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item - Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the President of the Republic, which was submitted to the National Assembly by MP Sasa Radulovic on 15 November 2017. Here you go, Mr. Radulovich.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67897	Thank you. Again on election terms, this is the fourth of the laws we have proposed, this time on the election of the President of the Republic. So we're trying to come up with fair and fair choices, to prevent election thefts and create a system that will provide fair conditions for holding elections. Obviously, instead of discussing these matters in the Assembly, that the ruling majority finally accept at least one proposal for discussion, opposition discussion in the tide, to allow one debate on such an important issue, instead we have various Sorosh NGOs calling on both power and opposition, holding some meetings, the EU is holding meetings within this home, instead of ourselves working to achieve conditions for fair and fair elections. The opposition threatens with the Parliament's boycott, not because the boycott is our goal, and not because it's a joke that we're afraid of choices, just the opposite, but because we participate in unfair elections, in the set elections, in the choices that are being stolen, in the elections that you don't have normal representation on televisions with national frequencies, on RTS, etc., are pointless choices, because when someone steals you, practically the whole fight doesn't make sense. It's like participating in a boxing match where your hands and legs are tied, and someone invites you to participate in them. This relationship of the ruling majority shows that indeed this whole process where they are trying to convince the citizens of Serbia that, of course, progress is being made, as concessions are being made, as efforts are being made to achieve fair conditions for elections are being made, because here we are in this highest home of the Republic of Serbia, the legislative body, trying to start a conversation on this important issue, and obviously there is no will to participate in this. The ruling majority seems to still vote only on the bells. What this law gives, i.e. a bill of law, is to prevent the situation from being voted by the dead citizens of the Republic of Serbia and to vote by non-EU citizens at the time of the elections. The system is very simple, citizens know that they can go to the Ministry of Local Self-Government's site today, enter their home number and check where they vote. This change would require only one small part to be added to that software, which would show after the election whether it was recorded whether they voted or not. So family members could check through home numbers to see if any of their dead family members voted. So people who left the country could simply go online and check if someone voted for them. So if they vote dead, if they vote instead of people, we don't have fair and fair elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67898	Thank you, Mr. Radulovich. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – no one with abstention – has, of 146. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MPs Sasa Radulovic, Branka Stamenkovic and Vojin Biljic, on the basis of Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on secondary education and education, which was submitted to the National Assembly by MP Sasa Radulović on 8 December 2017. Here you go, Mr. Radulovich.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67899	Thank you. Education is the future of one nation, one nation, one state. Investment in education is one of the key items if the people, or the state, intend to have a future. Unfortunately, in Serbia, the cost of education is high, i.e. education is not free when you look at the prices of textbooks that parents have to obtain, not to mention accessories and all other things that basics and high school students need, not to mention all the other costs that they cost, education is extremely expensive. We propose that all textbooks for all schools, primary and secondary schools in Serbia be free of charge, i.e. to be obtained from the budget. Now, this is opposed by that textbook publisher who is the largest in Serbia, which is believed or not, by the German company Clet, who, through Slovenia and Croatia, practically printed over 60% of textbooks in our schools for our children. I don't know if all citizens know it, but this is something they should know, what I don't understand is why the government is suffering this condition. So someone with a direct interest in cheap labour in Serbia, which is Germany, for Germany is this space, the space of cheap labour, the whole Balkans, not only Serbia, but our government does not understand that this is an abnormal situation. All world powers are colonial forces. Everyone colonizes somewhere in the world and has some interests. There's no friend amongst the great forces. For a country like Serbia and other countries in the Balkans, the question is – and who colonises you and for what resources? The main resource Germany is looking for in Serbia is cheap labour. First, our children, who are being dragged to Germany, qualified workforce and then unqualified workforce that should work in their cheap labour factories in Serbia. So then, in their intentions, of course, they went one step further and entered education itself, so they print textbooks that teach our children the way they like it. So in secondary schools at the senior year, almost all secondary vocational schools, especially in medical schools, you already have agencies that lead our children directly to work in Germany. We have our National Employment Service that has programs for hiring our children and people in Germany. This is an amazing thing. No sovereign country in the world has allowed such interference by colonisers interested in cheap labour in the Balkans. Germany, under the EU's cloak, colonises the Balkans. We need to get out of it. The first step is to take back our textbooks and print them for all the children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67900	Thank you, Mr. Radulovich. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is none of the 145 Messengers who are abstentioned for three. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MPs Sasa Radulovic, Branka Stamenkovic and Vojin Biljic, on the basis of Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, which was submitted to the National Assembly by Parliament Sasa Radulović on 8 December 2017. Here you go, Mr. Radulovich.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67901	Thank you. These are four laws, I've already discussed first, and this is about the basics of the education system, it's about both basics and secondary and preschool, so we have four laws that practically carry the same story. Education is a strategic thing for every nation, every nation, every country. Unfortunately, we have completely abandoned our education and left it to influences outside the country. Over 60% of Serbian textbooks print German company Clet. This is an incredible condition. This German company "Clet" via its companies in Slovenia and Croatia actually controls the textbook market in Serbia and there puts things in those textbooks that are of interest to them, and obviously we have very weak checks, i.e. no one checks anything, so the textbooks find things of the type that "blood tax" was one of the ways for children in Serbia to progress at a time when a blood tax was taken. Today, fortunately, we don't have a blood tax, but we have a different policy. This policy is the policy of taking people from Serbia. We have a large eviction every year, a large number of our people leaving the country, mostly going to Germany. In Serbia, cheap labour remains, and we have a large labour shortage, so it seems the government's policy to replace this labour shortage for German cable-tampling companies with migrants. You have a statement by the SNS president at the end of 2018 for "Tanjug", where he made it clear that Serbia has a huge decline in the population, a large number of citizens are moving annually, but we are being helped by migrants, so by 2028, as SNS President says, we will have a zero balance, or the number of migrants remaining in Serbia will be equal to the number of our people leaving the country, and then from 2030 on, we will have a positive balance, according to the SNS president, or there will be more migrants who remain than people leaving the country. This means that Serbia is disappearing. Little mathematics tells you that in the next 20 years Serbia will practically be no more. We will exist as individuals, but this will no longer be our country. We have to stop this and it starts with education. We need to make education the right child, to remove the German company's monopoly on printing textbooks, to stop our children's employment programmes in Germany, to provide free textbooks paid from the budget for all children in Serbia. Imagine, we can pay for that. To provide all the textbooks, it's about 0.27%, now and less, of the Republic of Serbia's budget. This is something that is in the interest of Serbia's future. If we don't do some things, the situation is dramatic, we disappear like the country and the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67902	Thank you, Mr. Radulovich. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is none, for three, against those who are abstentions, of the 145 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Dear People's MPs, before we continue to work, allow me to welcome students and teachers of the elementary schools "Djura Jaksic", "Branko Radicevic" and "Dr Zoran Djindjic" from Nis, who are currently following part of today's session from the Velika Hall gallery. Please welcome our guests. Welcome! National MPs Sasa Radulovic, Branka Stamenkovic and Vojin Biljic, on the basis of Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, which was submitted to the National Assembly by Parliament Sasa Radulović on 8 December 2017. Here you go, Mr. Radulovich.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67903	Thank you. This is the third of four laws regarding education. Education is a strategic matter for every nation and every country. The quality of education depends on the future of the nation. Unfortunately, in Serbia education is extremely expensive, textbook sets are very expensive. A textbook market has been created that is incomprehensible for any orderly democracy. Citizens may not know, but in all Western countries of the world, but not just Western countries, for example, in Russia, in Botswana, in many countries in the world, all textbooks for all children are free. Not only the textbooks, but they are free, or paid from the budget, as well as preschool material, a warm meal, notebooks, pens, so all education costs are paid for all children. Unfortunately, in Serbia, instead of making it easier for parents and for quality education, we have a system in which the biggest publisher of textbooks, especially for children in primary schools, is very good that children are here to hear this part of the debate, the printing of the German company "Klet". It is completely abnormal for a sovereign country to print 60% of our country's textbooks and control so much of the market. When one of the ministers from the previous government rebelled against this, one of the state's secretaries was beaten and he was removed. It is unclear why our government would support this colonial policy of Germany in the Balkans. All world powers are colonial forces. All world powers colonize somewhere for some interest, for the sake of resources. They're colonized for oil, for mining wealth. Germany has colonised the Balkans for 200 years for cheap labour. The first entry is to enter through the market, i.e. through education, in this case through textbooks and other things that they do. It is amazing that the government of the Republic of Serbia has allowed our National Employment Service, which is given 1.5% of each salary, to contribute to unemployment, to make our people's employment programmes in Germany out of that money. Serbia is empty, Serbia is disappearing and we have to stop it. The first step is education. The second step is to create conditions that our people have a good job in Serbia, not to favour foreign companies and their interests in Serbia. Unfortunately, the government's policy seems to be to replace these people who are leaving the country with migrants, and that's what the SNS president said explicitly, so that somewhere since 2030, there's been more migrants who remain than those who leave the country. Serbia is disappearing and we have to stop it. This is an appeal to change the key thing, and she is in education. Free textbooks for everyone! Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67904	Thank you, Mr. Radulovich. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is none, for four, against the abstentions, of the 145 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MPs Sasa Radulovic, Branka Stamenkovic and Vojin Biljic, on the basis of Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on Fundamental Education and Education, which was submitted to the National Assembly by MP Sasa Radulović on 8 December 2017. Here you go, Mr. Radulovich.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67905	Thank you. This Law is about preschool education and education and we propose that all kindergartens for all children in Serbia be paid from the budget. That would level Belgrade with the rest of Serbia. I don't know if the citizens know, in Belgrade 80% of kindergarten costs pay the budget, 20% pay the parents, the big problem is that there aren't enough kindergartens, so parents can't enroll children in kindergartens that are needed. We advocate that all kindergartens, in all parts of Serbia, be not a question that will be addressed by local self-government, but rather a matter of taking over the budget of the Republic of Serbia, because it is a strategic matter for Serbia's future. The latest research tells us that children who are three, four, five years of age are important for the development of a child, and at that time should start to change. We are in favour of a Finnish model, which would practically improve a significant education in Serbia, so as not to bug facts, but to teach children how to think, how to connect facts and how to deal critically with all the information they receive. So we suggest that the budget carries this item. For the budget, it is a minor item, and it would mean a big deal for all children and all parents in Serbia. The DJ advocates that education be in the right sense of the child's right, so that every child that is a citizen of the Republic of Serbia has some rights that we have given them to laws. The first right is the right to education and it comes from preschool age, through primary school, to high school, all the way to university, that every child, regardless of the economic strength of his parents, can get the same conditions. It also relies on paid kindergartens, paid textbooks for primary and secondary school, for a paid hot meal, for a paid transport, means that children who have to go to school to make sure that the state has a ride to school on the cost of the state, that education really is the right of every child, not that they are privileged to be those children whose parents have more money. This is a condition, someone will say – but it is socialism. This is not socialism, this exists in all the countries of the West, because they all realize that education is a strategic thing for every society and that they should invest in education. This is not happening in Serbia, but we are practically becoming a colony of cheap labour and exporting our children, here, now, already after high school the state has the means and can prevent this, it can create a program that is in the interests of both the states and the peoples and the parents themselves, it is incomprehensible that four years we have been in the Assembly in this alliance, that the state is doing nothing, or the ruling majority is not interested in this topic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67906	Thank you, Mr. Radulovich. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is none, for four, against the abstentions, of the 147 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MPs Sasa Radulovic, Branka Stamenkovic and Vojin Biljic, on the basis of Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on Preschool Education and Education, which was submitted to the National Assembly by Parliament Sasa Radulović on 8 December 2017. Here you go, Mr. Radulovich.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67907	You've read the same thing twice, but well, that's just fine. In preschool education, we have said that it is very important that children, especially at the age of five, six, four even, show already research in many orderly countries in the world, that this is a very important period for child education, that children who get a chance to develop in this period have much better results later in life and have a much better education, therefore also opportunities in their life. This preschool education is expensive for parents, in Belgrade they still get some help, and outside Belgrade depending on local self-government. The DJ proposes this rule that kindergartens be paid for all children, throughout Serbia, to take over the budget of the Republic of Serbia and to actually finance all kindergartens from that budget, to build a sufficient number of kindergartens for all children, so that children in that age of four, five, six years get a good education and a good basis for the rest of their lives. Budget can pay for this, this isn't a huge item, this is something that all MPs should accept. It's interesting that we never talk about such things, in all possible situations we discuss how to get foreign investors to open up factories for cheap labour with us, and we don't talk about our children and what they need to do to achieve later successes in life. Education is a strategic thing for every nation, every nation, every country. Unfortunately, the state of Serbia and other countries in the Balkans are large labour exporters, a large number of our people leave the country, go mainly to Germany, the German language is the most common foreign language in Serbia, where they get jobs because they are paid below the domestic labour price, and in Serbia, unfortunately, there remains a cheap labour force mainly employed in German cable roll-over factories, which we additionally subsidise with 10,000 euros per job. We need to stop this situation, we need to turn to our domestic economy, and we need to turn to our children, invest in education, and make a system that is good for our children. The system we need to look up to and the model we're supposed to look up to is a Finnish model. In Finland, education is focused on developing a critical opinion in children, not on the facts in mind, but on children thinking and learning how to present their thoughts and how to develop that part, rather than on drumming. So we need a radical change in the education system and this is the first step in that direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67908	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote: for - three, against - no one, with abstentions, has. No proposal accepted. National MPs Saša Radulović, Branka Stamenković and Vojin Biljić suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point - Proposal for a law on the termination of the Law on the provisional regulation of the basis for the calculation and payment of salaries, i.e. earnings and other permanent incomes by the users of public funds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67909	Thank you. The government boasts very much that it has managed to reduce the deficit. The deficit was large, of course it doesn't keep things up and it's important that the deficit is reduced and it's under control. Unfortunately, the way the deficit was reduced is completely wrong. It consists of several parts. The two parts concern cuts in public sector employees' salaries, that was a reduction in doctor's salary, a reduction in education workers' salaries, police, the military, employees' finances from the Republic of Serbia's budget, and a reduction in pensions. Here we are talking about cutting public sector wages and practically saving for the state was about 200m euros on an annual basis. On the other hand, the state was spending as a drunk sailor, throwing billions of euros annually on subsidies, the consolidated state budget says, we have huge costs on activated guarantees that the state has given to irresponsible party personnel in public enterprises, such as "Srbigas", such as "Smederevo" companies, RTB Bor, has been running through for years, hundreds of millions of euros. Then you see that instead of introducing order, she reached into citizens' pockets, in this case in the pockets of educational workers, in the pockets of pensioners, in the pockets of the police, in the military, in the health profession, we have a complete breakdown of the health system. A large number of doctors, medical staff, nurses leave the country and go to Germany. This is due to such laws and to the irresponsible relationship of the state to this sector. Citizens know how difficult it is to get a review in the state health sector, so a growing number of them, despite a very low standard, decides for the private sector and that is another big blow for citizens' pockets. On the other hand, all taxes are increased, VAT from 8% to 10%, then 18% to 20%, people have already forgotten that. All excise duties are increased, both for tobacco and oil, i.e. this is reflected in the price of gasoline and diesel, and then increased taxes on profits, corporations, legal persons, flat-rate taxes were introduced. This was all a way to reduce the deficit, instead of the state introducing order. The global financial integrity organisation is talking about getting out of Serbia annually, illegally four billion euros. In ten years it's 40 billion euros, it's one whole Serbian economy. This is where order is introduced, not on the salaries of doctors and educators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67910	I'm putting this motion to the vote. Finalising vote: for - three MPs. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Representatives Sasa Radulović, Branka Stamenković and Vojin Biljic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a law on the termination of the law on dual education. The word has a folk MP, Sasa Radulovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67911	Serbia has a large number of laws passed for Germany's direct interest in Serbia. Such is the Dual Education Act, which is completely inappropriate for the destroyed domestic economy in Serbia and is actually designed to give German companies opening up cheap labour factories in Serbia a system similar to the same system in Germany. All laws in Serbia are passed under the auspices of the European Union. Citizens probably don't know, in fact within the European Union, the only country that deals with Serbia and the whole Balkans is Germany, which is practically undermining its industry's interests in the European Union's lamb skin as something good for it. All world powers are colonial forces, each colonizing somewhere for some interest. It's colonized for oil, for mineral wealth. Germany needs labour and a qualified and cheap workforce, and you can clearly see it from President Merkel's speech, which clearly speaks about where their deficit is and where their focus is. Serbia is for them, as well as for the entire Balkans, in fact, a colony, i.e. a space for cheap labour, for their corporations. This law is practically a law to be passed, that is, adopted in the interest of German colonial interests in Serbia. Germany has been trying to colonise the Balkans for its industry in the past 200 years, along with Austria. Of course, this is not about the Germans as a people because the Germans as a people are one thing, the government is something else entirely. That power in co-operation with our authority is, in fact, bringing these laws and subduing the entire country under their interest, to turn us into colonies of labour. One of the key things that matters to Germany besides this dual education is our relationship to migrants. Those migrants should also be employed in their cable-wrapping factories and that is part of the entire interest of Germany that is operating in the Balkans. Our problem and our question is why is the government of the Republic of Serbia following German politics in the Balkans? Why does he bring laws that are in their interest? Can't they see that under the EU's disintegrating mantle and probably not surviving for the next five years, or the next EU parliament, which allows Germany to implement its colonial policies in the Balkans? This dual education law needs to be abolished. All subsidies to German companies should be suspended. They need to be expelled from education, kicked out their company "Clet" as a textbook publisher. The state of Serbia should get all the textbooks for our children and the National Employment Service should stop taking our children to Germany according to its programmes. I think the first step is the Law on Dual Education, which is the interest of German colonial policy in the Balkans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67912	Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote, four MPs voted for it. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MPs Saša Radulović, Branka Stamenković and Vojin Biljic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on the certification of signatures, manuscripts and transcripts. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67913	Thank you. This law concerns notaries. Notari, the perpetrators were introduced to protect the banking interest in Serbia. These notaries are practically taking big money from an overte document. They were introduced under the cover that we have an inefficient overa within the judicial system and local self-government, and that is why notaries have to exist. In fact, they are one place of control for citizens of the Republic of Serbia where without notaries you can hardly finish anything in Serbia. The number of notes is limited and controlled by the government. They are intruding even into the electoral right, i.e. the possibility for citizens of the Republic of Serbia to organise and register the electoral list. With this law, we propose that notaries should not only be those who verify the signatures for the elections but also that local self-government and courts can continue to do so. There are cases where exceptions exist, and we think these cases of elections are very important to allow easier access to all political entities, elections in Serbia. What's the problem during the election is that the parties of the ruling coalition, of which the notaries depend directly, when the elections are discussed, are taken notices so that you can't even reach a notary that will verify your signatures and it lasts, about five to ten days, and only after that begin to release the notaries that are seriously strained when you call them to confirm your signatures. This law would solve the problem, i.e. allow local self-governments and courts again to verify signatures when going to the elections. Otherwise, notaries should be completely abolished. Technology's been developing lately. There's been a block of Jenge technology, people from the IT industry know very well what I'm talking about. In fact, the Djanj technology bloc could replace the notaries in Serbia completely if they no longer existed. To actually enable that software to verify the documents. Such software can be applied to all public registers, which would significantly cost business and make life easier for citizens of the Republic of Serbia. So these professions that serve to create narrow throats and create control over the citizens of the Republic of Serbia mainly and the interest of banks, just as performers who do not exercise public interest, but the interest of banks in Serbia to practically exercise control over citizens. Notaries should be completely abolished. The law is only the first step in re-confirming signatures for elections and the establishment of political organisations to return to local self-government and courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67914	"Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote, four MPs voted for it. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MPs Saša Radulović, Branka Stamenković and Vojin Biljic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67915	Thank you. The law on the anti-resistance withdrawal of pensions, namely its fact, has been stopped, but what did not happen to the pensioners has not been returned to what they were systematically kidnapped. It is 40% of pensioners in Serbia who have pensions of over 25,000 dinars, they are four years from now under the law that is against the constitution, and eventually it will appear that the European Court of Human Rights will have to determine the opposition of the law since our Constitutional Court obviously does not have the courage to do so. Pensioners were kidnapped about 750m euros in those four years. There's been a lot of opposition to that law from the very beginning. With this change, we predict that in the next four years, the pensioners will return with interest everything they've been taken from them. So the month after the month the pensions they receive are now complemented by the money that was taken from them at the time of the entry into force of this anti-constitutional law. In four years, that money would be worth it. The withdrawal of pensions, according to us, was an extremely immoral act, where pensioners were turned against the pensioners, 60% of the pensioners with the lowest incomes didn't get a cut, and these pensioners, 40% of them got a cut, so they showed God's pensioners who have huge pensions. So the cases of 100,000 dinars were mentioned. The pension of 100,000 dinars has a very, very small number of pensioners, measured in hundreds, and in fact, the main part of this blow was filed by pensioners who have pensions between 25,000 and 45,000 dinars. So we're suggesting that the pensioners be returned to everything that's been taken. Retiring pensions was a completely unnecessary thing. Annual pensioners were taken about 180m euros on average, the country's subsidies are being thrown at about a billion euros annually, the country's activated guarantees are being thrown at about 300m euros annually, the unpaid electricity "EPS" is throwing about 200m to 300m euros annually, depending on the year, "Serbia" annually produces losses of 300m euros, and pensioners have been kidnapped 180m, and this is seen as a key intention to reduce the deficit. The state has not put in order, and that's the job of the state, to put in order, to stop throwing away money. International financial institutions argue that four billion euros is withdrawn from the Serbian state annually, part of the money is returned through money laundering back to Serbia, which is 40 billion euros in 10 years, or Serbia's gross social product. Serbia is a rich country, we just need to establish order and end the robbery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67916	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MPs Sasa Radulović, Branka Stamenkovic and Vojin Biljic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on Environmental Impact Assessment. Does MP Sasa Radulovic want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Sasa Radulovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67917	Thank you. The next three laws concern the construction of a mini-hydropower plant. Citizens, they probably know, mostly from social networks and the Internet, that a large number of beautiful rivers in Serbia, words, mountain rivers are being put into pipelines and practically destroying nature, destroying what God has given us in Serbia. Various groups of citizens opposed it, they had to defend the rivers with their bodies, they did something, they didn't make it anywhere. In fact, these three laws need to lay a legal basis to ban the construction of mini-hydropower plants and the destruction of our rivers. The mechanism used is next. For small hydropower plants are defined hydropower plants that have less than two megawatts, they are medium between two and 10 megawatts, so the law that prescribes what cases are designed to study environmental impacts before allowing natural zones in our national parks, such as the Old Mountains and others, to build mini-hydroelectric power plants, and practically, to push mountainous rivers into pipes. The law left a hole and did not prescribe that mini-hydroelectric power plants needed to do environmental impact studies. This is what the previous government did. This government didn't just change it, it left it. And during this government, in fact, the citizens of that mini-hydroelectric power plant, so one regulation on the identification of which projects require study, which not, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, at the time Oliver Dulic concluded that the mini-hydroelectric power plants do not need a study at all, and for those over two megawatts, they may need a study and then no study was adopted. This is how you create holes so that privileged party personnel, who, for the sake of a party racket, are practically given the opportunity to destroy our rivers. Enough has been suggested by this amendment to the law to oblige each mini or any hydropower plant to study environmental impacts. This would solve a major problem, legally solve it, which has citizens who defend our rivers and the Old Mountains, on the Kopalnik, on Zlatar, on the other, even on KIM and to prevent private investors from destroying our mountain rivers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67918	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MPs Saša Radulović, Branka Stamenković and Vojan Biljic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a law on amendments to the Nature Protection Act. Does MP Sasa Radulovic want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Sasa Radulovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67919	This is the second of the three laws concerning the construction of mini-hydropower plants and the suffering of our beautiful mountain rivers in pipelines. This concerns the Nature Protection Act, and in 2009, when it was passed during the previous government, the first and second and third protection zones were defined. In these protection zones, it was impossible to build any industrial facility. Unfortunately, in 2010, the previous government began to amend these laws and redefine the conditions, and then began to allow in areas two and three constructions of various industrial buildings, including mini-hydroelectrics. This left a small door with the possibility that in the areas of protection, the second and third allowed construction of mini-hydroelectric power plants, even talking about the construction of concrete bases and similar things in the protection zones. On the basis of changes to these laws later, during this government, and this government did not touch those laws, they were actually given permission to build in protected areas of nature. Enough is suggested to go back to the original 2009 law and ban construction, not just mini-hydropower plants, but any industrial facilities in nature protection zones, which are zones one, two and three, that there are no conditions that one can satisfy to ensure such destruction of nature. Whoever saw the pictures of what our beautiful mountain rivers look like when they put themselves in a pipe, how it destroys the flora and fauna and the animal and plant world around that river and in the very river, which completely drys, you have an industrial pipeline that goes along that route and which, practically, the river ceases to exist. It's a crime of nature, it's a crime towards future generations, according to our children, so we should ban it. This amendment of the law redefines that in zones one, two and three protections of nature, neither mini-hydroelectrics nor any other industrial facility can be built. Once again, this law has radically changed the previous rule in 2010, and then the current government, in fact, left that law to exist. National MPs who do not support these changes are actually telling citizens of the Republic of Serbia that they are not interested in protecting our beautiful mountain rivers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67920	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MPs Saša Radulović, Branka Stamenković and Vojan Biljic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on Planning and Construction. Does MP Sasa Radulovic want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Sasa Radulovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67921	Unlike these first two laws, this amendment to the Law on Planning and Construction was passed by the current government and adopted in 2018, where it was practically prescribed in the Law on Planning and Construction that the derivative pipeline for a private investor is a infrastructure. What does this mean? If there is something infrastructure, it is the public interest of the citizens of Serbia, for example the way is infrastructure, electricity network, etc. Then citizens who have parcels in locations where infrastructure construction is planned have an obligation to sell those locations to the state, so that the state can build that infrastructure. With this change of law, the current government has allowed private investors to have their private interest, which is a derivative pipeline, too, to be declared infrastructure, so that they can also get the derivative pipeline through private parcels without asking the owners of these parcels. You have a situation, which will be witnessed by all the people of the Old Mountains, in different locations, and I have personally believed it in other rivers in Serbia, Kosovo and Metohija, even in Vojvodina, so that, in this way, the private interest of the burazer economy, means that people who are directly bound by power, declares public interest and allows the derivation pipeline, which is not in the interest of any Serbian citizen, except for the investors and parties themselves in power, to be declared public interest. Enough of this change of law would actually solve it, a package of these three laws that I mentioned today would actually solve the problem if the mini-idro power plants couldn't be built anymore, everything would have to be restored to the previous state, and our beautiful mountain rivers would be there again. There was enough boycotting the Assembly because of the congregation's relationship with the opposition's MPs, because of the insult, because we can't put any part of the agenda on the Assembly's agenda. You will admit, it is not normal and no parliament in the world has a situation that the opposition cannot put any proposal on the agenda and that it is adopted and discussed further. Today I was talking about proposals concerning "Beograda na Voda", the robbery of the state in that part, achieving fair electoral conditions, the reason why the opposition threatens to boycott the elections. Unfortunately, most of us show that she is not ready for dialogue, that she is waiting for their EU friends to help them and ensure that she does not reach the boycott. Unfortunately, we tried to believe that something had changed. Looks like nothing's changed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67922	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Djordje Vukadinovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Production and Transport of Arms and Military Equipment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67923	Thank you. I've already proposed this bill several times, and as I said, the moment I first mentioned it, it seemed like a relatively secondary topic of some perhaps ideological importance or interest and something that seems anachronous and which threatens these modern trends of privatisation of everything and of our journey to Europe, a very new world. Turns out, however, very soon in recent months, how current this topic is and how maybe time has changed, but people and characters have not changed. In that sense, it turns out that serious affairs are linked to our Dedicated Industry, especially when it comes to these product intermediaries of the Dedicated Industry, in other words, the arms industry. Even some of these intermediaries, these private intermediaries, have recently been sanctioned. So they were also imposed sanctions by some countries or the most powerful countries in the world. I say every day, every week the media writes and gives details of the suspect, the least said suspicious transactions that went from the factory of the dedicated industry through these intermediaries to various parts of the world. So, I just said and suggested for starters, and I think for the end, that's a good solution, let's get the middlemen out of this business. They have enough other areas, a topic where they can show their trade ability. There is no need here, when we have manufacturers, when we have Krusik, and not only Krusik, but also other factories that have their own commercial, which have their own trading service, or a sales network, when we have a state mediator, a state seller, such as SDPR, then we don't need these privates. Then there will be fewer dilemmas about who dad, brother, aunt, mom, and who, now there are strange traders with unusual ability to really traffic and sell weapons, never in their life have they dealt with. So this is a seemingly small step, but symbolically important to bring order into such an important and ultimately profitable and sensitive area, such as the production and transport of weapons. In that sense, I would say it would prevent or at least reduce the amount of these affairs and the problems we have with it and in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67924	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Finalising vote: for - three MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Djordje Vukadinovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a bill amending the Law on the Transplanting of Human Authorities. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67925	Thank you. This is something that seems not so important, not about the survival of the country's budget and financing, but it is something that symbolically, even psychologically concerns practically all citizens. It is a law that this Assembly and this assembly majority adopted before a certain time, which, once again, is about following and I would say a little blind and one-sided monitoring of trends, worldly, at least as we are represented by these trends, and it is not like that everywhere in the world, it is not like that everywhere in Europe, therefore, introduces an institution so-called. default, i.e. assumed consent for organ donation. So every citizen of this country is a hypothetically potential default donor. I said it then and I have to admit some colleagues here or one colleague has also explained it several times, and even when it was on the agenda, some others have criticised the proposal. He's, first of all, unconstitutional and he'll probably fall in the Constitutional Court. But much worse than that, he's undemocratic. It introduces an institution that introduces uncertainty, not only legal, but psychological uncertainty among many citizens, because then it opens up space for various speculations. I don't think anyone's going to catch, like in some black movies and scenarios we could watch, Hollywood, that someone's going to produce about incidents with a tragic outcome, death doctors, to get organs. No, but I just think, and the facts show me that, in the meantime, since the adoption of this law, the number of donors has been reduced, because people have become insecure. Instead of leaving voluntary consent as a normal, democratic, natural measure, to run a campaign, a positive one, which will accelerate, promote the idea of donorship, but free donorship, free commitment, and not so that people put themselves before the final act in the midst of speculation what happens to them if something happens to them, whether the family gives permission, will not give permission and so forth. So, an example of the measure that was unnecessarily introduced, caused a public disturbance, is still unconstitutional, yet unethical, not to mention potential religious aspects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67926	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Finalising vote: for - three MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marijan Risticevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the declaration of the fake state of Kosovo, the influence that the International Court of Justice had on this, and the responsibility of former Foreign Minister Vuk Jeremic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67927	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is well known to all of us, and the press also says that, behold, Wolf Jeremic has taken down the arms dealer in the UN from sanctions and is now objecting to us. My recommendation to the previous speaker who strongly advocated against our dedicated industry is to stop working for the Bulgarian dedicated industry and start working for the Serbian dedicated industry. He's the first Vlach to start working for the Bulgarians. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Radulovic, whom I look forward to, said here and talked about stealing the election. Now get out of here. Mr. Radulovich, if you let go of your beard...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67928	Ambassador, please explain your proposal and not throw it to the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67929	I'm discussing a proposal. There was no theft in Belgrade's polling stations -- said Sasa Radulovic, Vuk Jeremic, in the rest of Serbia too, facts were sometimes painful, the Serbian Progressive Party won the election on the ground -- September 19th 2017. I can understand that someone with a pent-up cheek lets their beards not know him, but his attitudes remain in writing. Also, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what he says to Vuk Jeremic is that we were stealing votes is not true. The wolf, Jeremic, stole votes. He first gave an opinion to the International Court of Justice, which is the cornerstone of the Kosovo state, and then stole votes by stealing seats from the National Assembly and not participating in the elections. We're not Radulovic or the thief, we stole the mandates. The voices were stolen by those, Gilas, who had four people's messengers and his godfather with six people's messengers. Ten terms are worth 140,000 votes. Now he's gone. He should have said, "The best man took from me and Gilas took 140,000 votes from me." He should have said that, waved his hands a little bit, so it was clear to everyone. We didn't steal votes. The numbered votes have been stolen by his godfathers and friend Gilas. He himself says there was no theft in the election. Now I need him to tell me which one is the real one, whether the one without a beard who said that stealing the election wasn't the one who now, when he let his beard go, claims that we stole the votes, that we changed the conditions, etc. that we were doing something on the election list, even though he here claims to have made an insight into the voter's list and seen that there are no irregularities. You've wasted your time. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I look forward to his return, but I'm looking for... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67930	I thank you, MP. I'm putting your motion to a vote. Finalising vote: for – 10 MPs. I find that no proposal has been accepted. (Marian Risticevic throws.) ) Ambassador Gjorge Komlenski suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a law amending the Law on Judges. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67931	I thank the chairman. Comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia says: "The judge has the right to pay in accordance with the dignity of the judicial function and its responsibility." In seven days, it will be natural for exactly 10 years after judges who judge criminal matter suffer without cause one injustice, which is that their wages are not equal with colleagues of judges who judge in other matter. Except for the earnings of these judges, all other categories of persons employed in criminal courts have the same way of accounting with their colleagues, and officials, deputies, dactylographs, security guards and everyone else, except judges who judge criminal matter. Judges of criminal courts, I will remind you, judge large-scale matter because they judge cases in the areas of corruption, customs, the budgetary system, foreign exchange, access to information of public importance, working matter, traffic security, public order and peace, etc., etc. Dear colleagues, the judges of the criminal courts are not a burden of budgets and to remove this injustice on an annual basis is enough 220 million dinars that these hardworking people in the criminal courts multiplely participate in the Republic of Serbia's budget by their work and engagement. In 2018, only the Belgrade Criminal Court imposed a billion and 222 million dinars in the Republic of Serbia's budget. So 465 million on an annual basis are the earnings of all the judges of the Belgrade Criminal Court, all the employees and the full cost of this court's work. In 2018, only the Belgrade Criminal Court introduced nearly 800m dinars into the Republic of Serbia's budget. Please, and the Socialist Movement will insist on the suggestions that this really unjust injustice is corrected, that we put this law on the agenda and thus show that we simply respect the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Moreover, these people are not a burden of budgets, they are not an NGO, they are not some of the NGOs that feed on the Republic of Serbia's budget and are working against the interests of the country. These people work exclusively in Serbia's interest.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67932	Thank you. You're out of time. I'm putting the motion to a vote. Finalising vote: for - 12 MPs. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Ambassador Bojan Torbica suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the point – a proposal for a decision on the Commission's education to investigate and determine the number of victims of NATO's 1999 aggression pact. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67933	I thank the president. History will forever maintain that on 24 March 1999, without the UN Security Council's consent and contrary to international law, the aggression of the largest and strongest military alliances in the history of human civilization has begun on a small proud and sovereign country. It will be written that, without mercy, those who defended their hearths, their families, their freedom, those who had just begun their lives, who wanted to live, those whom NATO generals called collateral damage. During the 78 days of aggression almost the entire infrastructure of one state was destroyed, but what is more difficult, what is irreparable to bridges, factories and residential buildings and military facilities are the lives of innocents and brave defenders. There are no cities and settlements that NATO bombs are not principles. There are families left under the ruins. In Aleksinac, the Milic family died at one point, Father Dragomir, Mother Dragica and their daughter Snezana. Under the bombs, life and the youngest victims of NATO aggression were extinguished by 11-month-old Bojana Tosovic and her father Bozina from Merdar near Kursumlia. In Novi Pazar, two-year-old Marko Simic and his father, Vladan, were killed together, and three-year-old Milica Rakic was killed in Batajnica. The exact number of dead and wounded, both those defending their homeland and civilians to this day, has not been established. The majority of the data we have available today was identified during the first year after NATO aggression after a five-octobaric coup in 2000 resulting in a violent change of government in Serbia and a new puppet power, adding to its foreign mentors the exact number of deaths and wounded during NATO aggression. The representatives of the merionite authorities forget to establish the true i.e. The exact number of victims of aggression, but they don't forget to release over 200 of the worst terrorists so-called terrorists from prison. The KLA responsible for the worst crimes against the civilian population, military and police. I call on all MPs to support the Socialist Movement's proposal to make a decision to form a commission that would once and for all determine the exact number of dead and wounded citizens of the Republic of Serbia during the criminal NATO aggression and to put an end to this issue once and for all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67934	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—11, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic suggested that a joint principle and uniform search be carried out on the proposed items of the agenda from 1 to 6. Does Ambassador Martinovic want a word? Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 132, against – no one, abstentioned – no one voted 18 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted most of the votes of this proposal. Since we have come to the conclusion of the supplemental proposals, I would like to put to the vote the draft agenda in general. I conclude the vote: for – 133, no one, abstentioned – no one voted 18 MPs. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the 10th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019 as a whole. I ask the service to prepare the consolidated text of the agenda. Dn e v n i r e d 1. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Serbia, 2. Proposal for a strategy for defence of the Republic of Serbia, 3. Proposal for a national security strategy of the Republic of Serbia, 4. Proposal for a decision on the use of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations outside the borders of the Republic of Serbia, 5. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Czech Republic on co-operation in the field of defence, 6. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Migration Management Act, 7. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Northern Macedonia on the establishment of a common border crossing between Miratovac-Lojana. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that the sittings have been attended by Defence Minister Alexander Vulin, Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and their associates. I ask the MPs' groups, unless they've already done so to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(2), Article 170(1), Article 190(2) and Article 192(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principled and uniform search of items 1 to 6 of the agenda. Do the representatives of the motionor want a word? Minister, do you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67935	Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, gentlemen of the Vice Presidents, honourable MPs, ladies and gentlemen, comrades and comrades. You are facing today a set of laws that are directly related to the issue of defence, and this is the proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on the Army of Serbia, a proposal for a strategy and defence of the Republic of Serbia, a proposal for a strategy for national security of the Republic of Serbia, a proposal for a decision on the use of the Army of Serbia and other defence forces in multinational operations outside the borders of the Republic of Serbia, a proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Czech Republic on co-operation in the field of defence. Before I begin the formal part of explaining all the legal proposals recommended by your attention, I would like to share with you a personal impression. I have had the honour before the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to explain a number of laws, some of which essentially changed the Republic of Serbia and our life in it, from the Labour Act to the Change of the Law on the Military, the Law on Pension and Disabilities Insurance. Thanks to you, your tenacity, your patience and your work, the citizens of Serbia received laws that changed their lives for the better. Everything you do, everything this high house adopts, says, don't adopt, enters history. Someone will once for some decades, years to come, and centuries to come, because we are an old democracy. Serbs have a long tradition of convention, assembly, decision making for our people, thinking about what you did here, what you adopted or didn't adopt. I am proud that today, together with the people of the Ministry of Defence and the General Staff of Serbia and together with all of you, I will become part of an important historic moment, the moment in which the Republic of Serbia has decided to define its national interests, to go before the citizens of Serbia, to come before friends, to go before enemies, and to tell everyone what it is that will make the state of Serbia and its people worth repeating, what it is that threatens us, what it is that we consider a threat, what it is that we consider to be the priority of our policy. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, you have before you a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the Army of Serbia. We bring amendments and additions to more precise and additionally settle certain issues, thus ensuring more efficient management and functioning of the Serbian Army. In this way, we believe that we will preserve and further improve the functional and operational capabilities of the Serbian Army and create conditions for the better position of professional members of the Serbian Army, especially professional soldiers, officers and senior officers in service for a certain period of time. In the days ahead, we're going to discuss each point separately, so I'm only going to say in the roughest lines what it is that we suggest you accept as a change. The rank of first class sergeants and first class captains, i.e. first class lieutenants, or lieutenants of a battleship in river units, are restored again. In order to conduct quality personnel through the service in the Serbian Army, we bring a supplement that is prescribed time in the rank of lieutenants, captains and first-class captains, which is necessary for the promotion to a directly higher rank. The age limit for admission to professional military service is also increasing, for officers it is 40 years, and for officers 45 years. A circle of persons who can be admitted to professional military service is expanded if they have adequate military training with weapons and have acquired adequate knowledge and skills to carry out professional military activities. Serbia's army as well as any other institution in our country must be made as receptive as possible and as many people as possible, in order to attract as many of our citizens who want to serve in the Serbian Army as possible, and that is why we want to facilitate the conditions for them to become part of Serbia's Army. Precise production into the initial rank of sub-offices, secondary military school students and students of the Mushovite Military School. We almost shut down during the DOS government's secondary military education. In 2005, secondary military schools were abolished. Look, you've left the Air Force, you've got some planes, you've got some radar, you've got some PSC, but you've suspended training for people who'll take care of those planes, radar and that PSC. It was done in 2005. Why? We all have to think and talk about why it's done. It was returned in 2015 and I want to thank Minister Gasic once again, because he recognized it and returned it and now, four years later, we first got 19 boys and girls who were already deployed at our airports and who took care of our technique. But we lost 10 years of schooling these boys and girls. Ten years. Now we're trying to make up for it and make up for it how we can. Why am I talking about it? Because here we predict a way for these children to get to the first sub-offices and, of course, to organize our education in the future, just for the sub-offices. We don't have a school for officers. So, we don't school them, we have military high school and high school military school, we don't have a school for seniors. In this way, these children will be able to choose their career in Serbia's Army to become senior officers immediately after schooling, and we plan to organise a sub-office school in the future. Conditions are prescribed for the promotion of officers in a directly higher rank and the obligation of professional members of the Serbian Army to participate in multinational operations, to remain in the professional military service, a time period has been prescribed after returning from a multinational operation. This prevents the possible possibility of someone going into a multinational operation, something that members of the Serbian Army love and not only because they receive significantly more money, but also gain important experience. We invest in their training, invest in their equipment, send the best amongst us there, and then, when he comes back, he can come to someone's senses and say, well, I've just earned one significant amount of money, for that I'll do something, I'll do it, I'll open it. We're having less of a problem with money. We have a bigger problem that we can possibly lose a man whose experience we've invested in. We want a man who will return this experience to us, to share with the future generations of the army. That's why we're doing something that we think is right and completely justified, to predict that after returning from the peace operation, you have three times as much time to spend in the Serbian Army. If you don't, of course, you'll be retired according to the contract you sign before you leave. The termination of professional military service during war or emergency is also specified. The suspension is also covered during the emergency and is foreseen that professional military personnel cannot stop professional military service during war or emergency, except in strictly specific cases. It cannot happen that a professional military person who has trained and prepared for the performance of a war or emergency mission, after declaring these conditions, simply submits a request for the termination of military service and leaves his army. That won't be possible anymore. The education of military disciplinary courts and prosecutors at the defence ministry is also foreseen. In this way, full independence of military-disciplinary authorities is established in a professional way when deciding on the responsibility of professional members of the military. Also, appropriate changes have been made to align the basis for the collection of salaries of professional members of the Serbian Army, with the methodology of the Republic Statistics Institute, as the law also requires. The Regulation, which provides for the number of vacation days for the completed internship, is also adopted, which is to bring the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on civil servants into line. It is a great, great honor for me to present to you two roof documents that define the strategy not only of defence, but of our country's policy strategy. The Republic of Serbia closely monitors the change in the environment and adapts its security and defence policy to these changes, in order to best protect and achieve its national and defence interests -- preservation of sovereignty, territorial integrity, military neutrality, care for the Serbian people outside Serbia's borders. European integration and an effective rule of law are the main starting points for the development of strategic documents. The draft documents were initiated in 2016, and in September 2017, concerted versions were drawn up, with which we came out after obtaining the consent of Serbia's Supreme Commander, President Vukic, in a public debate. We met all the interested public and everyone could say what they thought of them. The National Security Strategy of the Republic of Serbia is the highest strategic document that protects the national values and interests of the Republic of Serbia. The document, which is before you, looks at the situation in the strategic environment, lists challenges, risks and threats to security, formulates national interests and objectives, determines the policy of national security, structure and principles of functioning of the national security system, as well as how the strategy is implemented. For the first time, the document sets out the national interests and the basics of the national security system. I particularly point out that the Republic of Serbia is not subject to a unilaterally unilateral declaration of independence of the territory that is administratively covered by the AP of Kosovo and Metohija. We consider this a threat to our country's national values and interests. For the first time, I underline once again, the state of Serbia has gained the strength and courage to face the whole world and to say what it is that is our national interest. Seven national interests have been established -- the preservation of sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia, the preservation of internal stability and the security of the Republic of Serbia and its citizens, the preservation of the existence and protection of the Serbian people wherever they live. This sentence I've just said has never found its place under the sun in the history of the modern Serbian state. Never the Serbian state, never the state of Serbia has said that its national interest is to preserve the life of Serbs, no matter where they live. Never. And never, as in the document before you, has it been said that Republika Srpska and its preservation are the priorities of our foreign policy. Never. The state of Serbia thus makes it very clear what national interest is and what must be defended. Before we did, it was like nobody thought of it. The last strategy was made in 2009. So, further - the preservation of national minorities and their cultural, religious and historical identity, the preservation of peace and stability in the region and the world, European integration, membership of the Republic of Serbia into the EU, economic development and overall prosperity, as well as the preservation of the environment and the resources of the Republic of Serbia. Any national interest shall be achieved through the realisation of the objectives, and measures shall be set out for each purpose to achieve it. The national security system is defined as an integral continental element involving all relevant structures of state and society, whose activity provides protection and achievement of the national interests of the Republic of Serbia. The defence strategy of the Republic of Serbia is a strategic document stemming from the National Defence Strategy. From it, as a roof document, we define, we bring a document that directs the development of normative, doctrinal and organisational solutions to the defence system, planning and financing of defence and the involvement of the defence resources of the Republic of Serbia. It contains views on the security environment, identifies challenges, risks and threats of importance for defence, sets out defence interests and objectives, strategic concepts of defence, structure and principles of functioning of the defence system, as well as how the Strategy is implemented. The strategic concept of defence expresses the basic views on how to engage the defence system and is based on the model of total defence. The total defense model has been mentioned before in previous strategies, but nothing has been done on it. We said, we're introducing a professional army, it's gonna be small, well-trained, well-organized, well-armed, and when it comes to the first blow, it's gonna hold on to the first blow, and then it's gonna come who? Who? Because after that, after this first piece and the concept of total defense that no single dinar has been invested in, where nothing has been done, there's no one to come. Tragic data from those invited to the reserve. It was interrupted by the training of our population, and the concept of total defence is just saying -- every citizen of Serbia, in accordance with his abilities, health, education, has the right and obligation to participate in the concept of defence of his country as he can. Not everyone's carrying guns, but also how there's room for everyone. We introduced it, wrote it, and just stopped working on it. We didn't do anything about it, nothing. This is now our way of taking care of our own safety again. And it's not something anyone should be worried about. It is the right and the obligation, and in the whole world a much more peaceful country than ours is also taking care of such elements and doing everything to keep their country safe and safe. So, in the function of protecting and achieving national interests, six defence interests have been identified -- the protection of sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity, the protection of the security of the Republic of Serbia and its citizens, the preservation of peace and security in the region and the world, the improvement of national security and defence through European integration processes, the military neutrality of the Republic of Serbia and co-operation and partnership with countries, international organisations in the area of security and defence. The document also stressed the view that Kosovo's independence is absolutely unacceptable for the Republic of Serbia. Here we come to another of the key elements of the strategies ahead of you -- our firm commitment to insisting on military neutrality policy. Military neutrality is the position of the citizens of this country, the position of the National Assembly, the position of the Government, the position of the President of the Republic, and something that strengthens our determination to remain military neutral. That is why, you will notice, if you have carefully read, that for the first time in this document, except for mentioning our co-operation with NATO pact through the Partnership for Peace, which we consider to be an optimal level of our co-operation, so we rule out membership, is talking about our co-operation with the ODKB, so collective security treaty. Some call it "Eastern NATO". For the first time, never before has a single piece of paper in our country, although it has had views on military neutrality, it has not led and has not proposed such a balanced policy - Co-operate with the East, cooperate with the West. Have joint activities with the West, but also with the East. This is the first time an official proposal, that the official strategy comes before Serbian citizens and says it will co-operate with both the east and the west, and defines it very clearly and precisely. I will give an example that we, dear citizens, have had from 2000 until 2012, for example, with the Russian Federation of Joint Activities Zero. We didn't do anything, and I'll tell you we're 96 now. So you see that there is a difference, and we have not compromised the principle of military neutrality anywhere, because we are also working with Western countries, taking into account, first of all, the citizens of Serbia and what our interests are. Not what other people's interests are, but what our interests are. Serbia's army is now being organised, organised and run by those who listen only to the voice of Serbian citizens and nobody else. In front of you, ladies and gentlemen, there is also a proposal for a decision to use the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations outside the borders of the Republic of Serbia. Serbia is a country capable of exporting security. Serbia is a country that is able to help where it is difficult, to help people who suffer, to best present their policies to their armies, but also their organisation, their ability, in the best way to show what Serbia is capable of. We are before you because the National Assembly makes a decision on the use of the Army of Serbia and other defence forces in multinational operations outside the borders of the Republic of Serbia and we come with a change that says that when the National Assembly adopts one of the decisions on participation in multinational peace operations, it does not have to do it again unless the mandate is changed or the name or operation itself is changed. So no one can bring us into anything that the National Assembly will not study, look, and say whether it suits her or does not suit her. At this point, we are participating in nine peacekeeping operations, five of which are under UN command, and four are under EU command. So, peace operations, not combat operations. It is before you, ladies and gentlemen, and the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Czech Republic on co-operation in the field of defence. It was signed in Belgrade on 11 September 2019. It has been a long time since the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, when a similar agreement was signed last. It is a type agreement that regulates mutual relations, gives a legal framework for achieving co-operation between the two ministries, i.e. the two armies, of course, in the first place, I keep saying this, in line with the interests and needs of the defence ministry, the Serbian Army, the state of Serbia. It's something we want to sign with as many countries of the world as possible. Nothing costs you, and it obliges you to do in what you have signed, and you will sign what is in the interest of your country. So, anyway, that's why you're here to look and say what you think about what you think. I am truly looking forward and I feel infinitely proud to participate with you in this historic day, which is what the state of Serbia is saying so clearly, speaking so loudly, in this way talking about how it will develop, not just its army and its security system, but how its policy, its views on the most important national issues will develop. I look forward to an argumentable, serious debate and I want to adopt documents that will make Serbia even better and safer for the benefit of all Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67936	Thank you, Minister Vulin. Dear Members of the People, I would like to inform you that the Government, by written means, is on the 24th of December 2019, on the basis of Article 159. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, withdrawn from the procedure Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Migration Management, No 011-2898/19 of 25 November 2019, which was proposed to be considered as the 6th item of the established agenda of the 10th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019. Also, I would like to inform you, according to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, that we will be working after 18 hours today, because of the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. We're going back to work. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ) We are moving on to the presidents, i.e. authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups. The word is Mr. Balint Pastor. Here you go, Mr. Pastor.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67937	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Vulin, gentlemen of the officers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I, in front of the SVM parliamentary group, intended, above all, to talk about the draft law on amendments and additions to the Migration Management Act. That law, as we just heard from the chairman, was withdrawn by the government from the assembly procedure. I want to say that we are happy that the government has withdrawn this bill. We've had conversations the previous days about this bill. It is good that the National Assembly will not discuss this, it is good that this law will not be passed in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. At the same time, since the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is not only a legislative body, it is not only a body that chooses and controls the work of the Government, it is not only an electoral authority, but primarily a representative body of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because it is a representative body, it is our job, MPs, that we represent citizens here and that we talk about those issues and those problems that affect citizens of the Republic of Serbia. That is why I would like, apropo of this bill that has just been withdrawn, that very briefly, just in a few sentences, I am talking about the subject of migrants and migration in the Republic of Serbia. I would like to thank the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of the Interior, the Commissioner for Refugees, which in recent days provides support to local self-government, primarily the Kanjiz municipality, which is largely affected by the problem of illegal migration. The heads of the Kanjiz municipality sought assistance from the interior ministry and other authorities of the Republic of Serbia because they arrived at a daily level of between 250 and 400 migrants in Kanjiz. The towns of Kanjiza, Martonoš and Horgos are largely affected. They think it's a threat to their safety. People can't let kids on the streets again. I appeal to all the authorities of the Republic of Serbia to do our utmost to avoid the situation that existed in certain areas of the Republic of Serbia in 2015, before a fence was built on the border between Serbia and Hungary, that fence that guards and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because just because of that fence for several years was an extremely reduced inflow of migrants in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. What is said about migrants in the public domain? It is said that these people fled the war, that they are only passing through in our country and that Serbia should be a good host. I agree that Serbia should be a good host, but the host has a sovereign decision and makes a decision on who he will let into his house. We appeal to all the authorities of the Republic of Serbia who have jurisdiction over protecting the border, primarily the southern border of the Republic of Serbia, so that migrants do not go into the territory of the Republic of Serbia uncontrollably and thus create a security risk for citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Since 10 years ago, citizens of the Republic of Serbia have been travelling to EU countries without visas. Up to 10 years ago, all citizens of the Republic of Serbia and before that the citizens of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia were to stand in line for days and nights before the embassies of certain EU states. Citizens still remember that time. None of us thought of going to Austria, Germany, Switzerland or any other state of Europe without passports or visas. If that's how it was, then that's how it's supposed to be today. There's no reason it shouldn't be like that. First of all, we need to protect the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Also, opinions are heard about the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and are said above all, I will quote this -- Serbs are a people who are friendly. Yes, I agree, and it's very commendable, true and beautiful, but it's not about refugees in a number of cases, it's about economic migrants. Speaking of refugees, the Serbian people had their refugees in the 1990s, too, unfortunately, in large numbers. After certain military actions "Bleska", "Storms" in Croatia or in BiH. Who among these refugees tried to go to an EU country without a passport without a visa? Nobody. If that's how it was, and that's how it was, then we should also ask people who come from other areas of the world. For this reason, I would like to thank the police, the Commissioner for Refugees and other authorities of the Republic of Serbia for their support, and financial and support of other species, those local self-governments most affected by this problem. I hope that very soon the situation will stop with the buses "Laste" from 250 to 400 people a day arriving in Kanjiž and I hope that we will be able to solve this problem with common forces. It is good to repeat, that this proposal for a migration management law has been withdrawn from the agenda and I hope that the scenes we saw and that we have rescheduled in 2015 and in Kanjiza, both in Subotica, both in Šid, and in Presevo, both in Belgrade and in other areas of the Republic of Serbia will not be repeated. As for the other proposals for acts on the agenda of the National Assembly session today, I would like to say that SVM MPs will vote in favour of the proposed strategies, both for the Defence Strategy and for the Security Strategy. The most positive, according to us, is that the military obligation will not be reintroduced in the Republic of Serbia. It is a good thing that this is not foreseen by the Defence Strategy and the National Security Strategy. As we have said in the past few months when it was current and when the atmosphere was created about it in public, we understand the concept of total defence, and I think that in the past decades we were the duchy Hungarians and how we took part in the defence of the Republic of Serbia and its predecessors, for example, but we are opposed to military exercises, we do not think it contributes to increasing the capacity of the defence republics of Serbia and that this money should be spent for other purposes. We don't think citizens should be put in that position for 15 days for military training, because it brings nothing new to the state. If the country needs to defend itself from some natural disasters, then the citizens will certainly and in many ways respond to these calls or do not give God for some other reasons, but I do not expect any other reasons. So, to repeat in the end, I urge all the authorities of the Republic of Serbia to protect the southern border, to fight illegal migrants, to expect others to have the same behaviour as the citizens of the Republic of Serbia both in the country and abroad. As for the other draft laws and strategies, SVM MPs will support them in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67938	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. The word has the People's MP Vojislav Vujic. Here you go, Mr. Vujić.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67939	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister with Associates, gentlemen officers, I will agree with my predecessor, who says we should guard the southern border. According to Minister Vulin, this is probably not likely today, this must be a historic moment. Exactly what you have potential, I will focus, in our strategy, on the south and north and all borders are preserved equally and that is why the Single Serbia parliamentary group will support all four laws concerning our army. You've now heard that we've taken off the agenda, that it's withdrawn, in fact, the Migration Management Act. Of course, it doesn't have to worry citizens, it's the right situation, and certainly the national security strategy, among other things, treats that subject, I read it. Of course, I don't want to go into all this detail, but you, Minister, have made this very clear. But just for the sake of the citizens, I would like to say that the strategy is this roof document, and that everything else in all these points is operationally worked out, and of course it's not a topic for one of these open debates. I want to point to the complexity of this topic. First of all, it concerns climate change and migrant crises and the less and less energy in the world, less and less supply of drinking water, it has covered demographic problems, and the one that bothers us the most is mostly Natalie. So when we talk about amendments to the Military Act, which was adopted in 2018, it mainly refers to greater rights and better status of soldiers. What will certainly be remembered for the past few years is certainly a serious investment in Serbia's Army's equipment and weapons. Now we are certainly the most dominant in the Balkans and I cannot say the leading, but when we take some parameters and statistics, we really have something to brag about, not only did we buy serious planes, serious helicopters, we also made a serious step with our dedicated industry. So there are armored vehicles "Lazar" and "Milos", there are serious infantry weapons, etc. Of course, it's not a topic right now, so I don't want to spread the story on the subject, but when people say, "Why is he investing?" We always have some critics who say we shouldn't invest so much in the Army. We should invest in the military, not because we are a warring people, you know and everyone knows that Serbia always leads peace policy, but simply in the environment in which we live, it makes us have to invest in military equipment and we have to invest in the military. We would certainly be more advanced if we were to invest in tractors, in combined, in industry, those assets would probably come back a lot faster, but what do we do? According to Dragan Markovic, president of my party, we are a house on the road, and everyone knows that when the house is on the road, above all, it must take care of safety. NATO politics is often conducted in public - yes or no? As for me personally, my parliamentary groups, and that is what I recommend to everyone, and I remind you that we must never forget what NATO has done to Serbia. I'm sure they made a mistake back then. That's what this shorter history is going to show, and the history of the years to come will explain it in detail. We suffered great sacrifices. A large number of civilians suffered, a serious one-state infrastructure that brought us back at least 20 years. These are things we can't forget. What was devastating to me, perhaps more than anything, is that NATO has given support to a terrorist organisation. In Kosovo, then, the terrorist organisation received the support of the largest military force. I've had the chance to be their guest from 2012 to 2014, I've seen what NATO is, I've seen what a force it is, but what the Army of the Republic of Serbia has managed to do these days is certainly a heroic act and we must never forget it. That, when I say, what NATO is like and what it has done in some short history, doesn't mean that we need to end communication with them. The people who run this organization have changed, life goes on, but certainly we as a state have chosen military neutrality. Military neutrality, as you ministers said, points us to co-operation with the ODKB, where we have, as you have now said, better relations and more concrete co-operation than ever. Of course, the topic I'm going to talk about later is peace-based multinational operations, peace missions involving the Republic of Serbia's military, and that points us back to this neutrality, where we don't want to blame anyone, where we want to have good relations with everyone, but we just want to show that we're on our own. What happened in Kosovo, again, I have to go back to it, because it is a great tragedy, but not just for us, but for the Shiptars and all the other peoples who found themselves in Kosovo. The consequences of the poor uranium couldn't choose nationality, they didn't choose today, we all died. In their struggle that they thought made sense, the message it now sends all over the world is that they, as well as these migrants, have set out to leave territory, our territory of occupied Kosovo. I think NATO should at least be ashamed now, if anything, of everything he's done. What I want to do today, which is that today we should take advantage of this very moment, as the minister says, historically to praise the VBA, the Military and Security Agency, to commend the VOA, after all, we must also commend BIA, the great influence of foreign factors, which certainly has interests in our territory, is not nearly dominant after what Minister Vulin said today. I want to apostrophe once again, exactly what you said, because in our strategy of defence of the Republic of Serbia, in addition to all interests, I will read only the first and that is enough. It says: protection of sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity. For the unbelieving Tom and all those who predicted that anything bad would happen, that terrorists would eventually easily reach their goal, this is the response of the Serbian government, and therefore the National Assembly will unanimously support, I believe, all these proposed laws. But today I want to take another chance, Minister while you're here, and while my fellow officers are here, I want you all to pay a little attention to our fighters. We have one specific situation, I'm not saying for any moment that this government is guilty of anything, and we, from the time Archibald Rice, have this cruel policy towards ourselves and we can't possibly reward enough of our own. We're always better off with other people. The experience shows that Croatians who participated in the war had the utmost respect, as did our neighbours from BiH. That's what these terrorists down there are doing in Kosovo. We need to pay a little more attention to our fighters. Why am I saying this? When we talked to the Ministers about the problem, the Swiss francs, at some point I said, it wasn't this government and this government that someone once made. More than once we repeated it and simply this request and this appeal came to President Vukic, and you know that we have successfully solved this problem. I personally believe that this, this problem that I'm talking about right now, is a similar way to solve it. Why do I say that? While I have reviewed the archive since 2012, and everything related to the assembly work and to the speeches of the MPs, it is certainly what I have seen, and that is, that a large number of speeches from this hall is not only respected, but adopted and implemented. It's a big deal. So today I am taking the opportunity to thank the 2012 and Prime Minister Ivica Dacic, later Prime Minister Aleksandra Vukic, the current president of the Republic of Serbia for always hearing what is said in this room. It is these very differences that all of us who are involved in politics represent that we are precisely representing the people of Serbia in this way. The fact that we are different here, that sometimes we have different attitudes, is actually the best image of the people of the Republic of Serbia. I'm sorry when one part of the opposition doesn't even want to attend in the work of the Assembly and to debate and make proposals for such a serious topic. I have also said, and that is why I am a little sooner to note why I have been thanking the former prime ministers since 2012 and the current president, precisely because they have heard of the problems that the MPs have brought to this House. As for criticism in parliament, I always appeal to JS leader Dragan Markovic Palm, my president, who every time, although he referred to some criticism, never did so without having a proposal on how to resolve something. It's an appeal and a message to send to everyone in this room. As for these four laws, I repeat again, the JS parliamentary group will support them. Since this sixth was withdrawn from the agenda, we still have an agreement with the Czech Republic. Of course, you said, he refers to military co-operation, first of all, being made and forming a legal framework. The Czech Republic is our Slovenian people, brotherly, friendly people. I even came up with a few days ago, that after World War I, there was the idea that Czechoslovakia would then join Yugoslavia, the border, the territory of Austria and Hungary. That would be some 80km corridor, 200km long. The question is what kind of relationship in Europe today would be and what topics today would be on the agenda if it had been brought to life, but with the will of most intellectuals then in Yugoslavia, it was not implemented. In any case, we in the JS always represent that good relations with everyone are something that can primarily benefit Serbia, because of these political and economic relations we can all have a concrete improvement. I also want to take this opportunity, Minister, to introduce to you that the president of my party from yesterday on an official visit to Austria and that this is exactly the kind of diplomatic work that he did not, I repeat, and everyone knows it and the minister and ambassador managed to provide Serbia with another investor. The JS parliamentary group supports all the laws that are on the agenda today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67940	Thank you. Now I'm setting a break for an hour and we're going to continue at 15.05 hours. Thank you. After the break.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67941	Dear ladies and gentlemen, MPs, we continue to work further. I ask if any of the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word has been given by the People's Messenger Nemanja Radojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67942	Thank you, Your Honors Minister, gentlemen, I will speak today about the National Security Strategy. My opinion is that today, here with you, in fact, the entire Serbian government, headed by the prime minister and the Deputy Prime Minister, the Minister of the Interior, and as far as we can see from the strategy, would not be bad and that the president himself was here, because several important things that are first mentioned in the Strategy could be heard in his exposé. Also, what is noticeable is that the president of Serbia is increasing some powers by this document, so it would probably be useful for citizens and colleagues to hear and say some formal transition to a semi-presidential system. Also, I wish Foreign Minister Ivica Dacic were there, because I think we miss the Foreign Policy Strategy very much along with this strategy. Now it's hard to determine which of these two strategies are more important, but they should certainly rely on each other if we want a complete formalized system. So, to this National Security Strategy, unfortunately, we have waited for more than a decade and imagine what has changed since 2008, when the last debate on this topic was discussed in this House. Of course, given that Serbia's policy is not exactly based on the strategies and documents they bring forward, we are witnessing that the adoption of such acts, unfortunately, often represents the fulfillment of some forms and ultimately remains just a dead letter on paper and that it may in practice not have the same consequences as expected of them. But not about that, we're going to act and consider it with a dose of seriousness, as this document requires. My main impression is that the strategy unfortunately lacks a visionary element, and if you want a dose of courage, which is needed to fit some things into the Strategy, so this document is a little bit more like an analysis of the existing situation and I think it is a little bit of a daily political issue. This, first of all, is seen in relation to KIM, where, in my opinion, it is seen as if the secession is just about to happen, not as some process that took place 12 years ago and that continues to take place. There is also regret that we have not received answers to key foreign security policy issues, such as relations with neighbours or with large forces. What we have received from this strategy is further strengthening the position of the president of the Republic of Serbia and reducing the possibility of democratic control of the apparatus. The paper in this Strategy is that for the first time in a strategic document of the Republic of Serbia, the definition of military neutrality has been defined, and despite the fact that the topic is constantly present in the public sphere, military neutrality has not been defined, neither in the Constitution nor in the laws nor in the other existing strategies. So far, military neutrality has been on paper only, in the National Assembly Resolution on the protection of the sovereignty of territorial integrity and constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia, which this home brought in 2007. Therefore, this resolution declares military neutrality against existing military alliances because of NATO's role in the events leading to Kosovo's declaration of independence. So we haven't had a single document since then that has further operationalized what military neutrality means, except for not joining NATO. And on the other hand, the scale of co-operation with NATO, primarily through the "Partnership for Peace" programme, has been increasing all this time. The main things that change in this strategy compared to the ones in 2009, are the reduction of enthusiasm for engagement in the construction of co-operative security within the Partnership for Peace and the desire to balance between NATO and the Organisation of collective security contracts. What is also evident is the shift of defence policy focus from participation in cooperative security mechanisms to increasingly relying on some of its own forces. This, of course, requires greater investment in military equipment, but the scale of these investments cannot be seen in these documents. Here you get right and you ask the question of who we're neutral to? So military neutrality, in this case, has been defined negatively as not agreeing to military alliances among which NATO is explicitly listed. But immediately afterwards, there is a sentence that says neutrality will not affect Serbia's commitment to co-operative security, i.e. participation in the activities of multilateral organisations, whose Serbia is a member such as the UN and the OSCE. Military neutrality should not affect further improving co-operation with NATO, which is said to be of interest to Serbia, while co-operation with the Organisation of a collective security treaty made up of post-Soviet countries is marked as the definition of security policy. So, Serbia's military neutrality has so far been presented in public as not joining NATO and balancing between NATO and Russia. What we do not know, and I sincerely hope that one of the state authorities is seriously dealing with it is what is its price, or what are its practical consequences? Following other military neutral countries, but indeed military neutral countries, Serbia has defined itself as a concept of total defence, which is also a novelty in this strategy, which in this case means, above all, a greater burden on the civilian population to take part and contribute to the defence, for example, through the fulfillment of military obligations, so that we do not know whether we can expect the reintroduction of the military deadline. Building on its own strength also means further increasing the defence ministry's budget and maintaining it at a relatively high level, which could also affect other sectors such as education, health care, environmental protection, science, whose successful functioning is also in line with the understanding of total defence against the importance of defending the country and protecting the security of citizens. So, I have to say, to an ordinary citizen, this notion is in no way well explained, and I would not want our citizens to know what the total defense means, only when a call for military service or military exercise may arrive at some future time. The 2009 defence strategy notes that the character and connection of modern security threats imposes on strengthening co-operation and a co-operation approach to defence and security. It dominates the commitment to co-operation security, especially through engagement in the framework of the Partnership for Peace, while the proposal for a new Defence Strategy retains some definition in favour of co-operation security, but sets different motives for co-operation. So, the definition of co-operation with the ODKB is a newspaper compared to the 2009 strategy, in which the organisation has never been mentioned, as well as military co-operation with Russia. Unlike NATO, the ODKB has not been elaborated on what uses are expected of this co-operation, except in a proposal for a national security strategy, it notes that Serbia is expanding the existing level of co-operation with this organisation to contribute to global stability and security. So one of my questions for you would be to clarify this part. The good thing about this strategy is that security, i.e. the concept of security, is spread from military to economic, energy, social and environmental security. However, the subject of the threat of poverty has not been given a greater role in the strategy, and since it is the main cause of Serbia's migration described as one of the risks to our security. So, because of these things, I think it would be good if we had other ministers, because their ministries, too, I believe, will actively participate in this national strategy. Also, the bright points of this strategy can be observed by the fact that the Strategy is in principle in line with the European Union's common foreign security policy, but if we look again at the practice, we will see that things, first of all, do not maintain this attachment in our policy. What is a personal surprise to me is that there is no corruption between threats, and organized crime is somewhere near the end of the challenges listed. So, the Strategy lists twenty threats from armed aggression, through drug abuse, to abuse of scientific achievements. So, at the top of the security institutions' priorities, they're not corruption and organised crime, so I wonder where did that fight against corruption go, where the SNS came to power in 2012. So corruption is mentioned here as a threat only in a place where a threat comes from Kosovo and Metohija is considered. Also, it is incomprehensible that the risks of natural disasters and gambling in industry are in the last place, if we know that in recent years our citizens and property have just suffered the most in these cases. Furthermore, the criticism of this strategy is also going in a direction that ignores civil control of the defence system, therefore, something that has been a democratic flow and practice of so far reforming the security sector. The declared structure of the national security system completely leaves behind the role of control, so that there is no place for courts, prosecutors and independent supervisory authorities. It is visible and very worrying that the lack of work that should point out that all ministers, like all the leaders of the three security services, are delivering a report to the National Assembly and the Government on the state of security of their work, but that someone here in the Government Assembly is responsible for implementing the adopted strategy and action plans. So, given this strategy, it might not be bad if it were envisaged and that the president of Serbia undertakes to submit a state of defence report, as such a draft strategy takes over some of the functions that have been reserved for the government of the Republic of Serbia so far. So, this section of the Strategy relating to the regulation of the national security system is particularly controversial, as the system is not regulated into a single system neither in the Constitution nor in the laws, although it implements constitutional powers of Serbia, such as protecting Serbia's sovereignty and territorial integrity. So what had to be done was that a special law had to be adopted in the system, to regulate its purpose, principles, acts and their coordination, and in this way I think that it would be clear in the long run to regulate the division of responsibilities for the management, coordination and supervision of these institutions. This strategy amended the structure of the national security system compared to the 2009 strategy. In fact, the old strategy recognized the role of institutions that do not have security powers, but play an important role in controlling the system in a narrow sense, i.e. of state actors who are authorized to apply force. Now this role has been abandoned. The system is divided into the executive and the steering part, and who and how it is carrying out democratic civilian control of these services has not been established. Also, in this new proposed architecture of the national security system, the fact that there is no place for the authorities of the judiciary and the independent supervisory authority that we as the Assembly choose here. Therefore, the Strategy does not recognise the role of the Citizens' Protector, the Information Commissioner, the State Auditor, the Anti-Corruption Agency, etc. All of them, on behalf of the citizens, have so far had the authority to control the most confidential functioning of the security institutions in order to determine the legality of their work. This lack of control, on the other hand, is accompanied by the strengthening of the role of the president, which is enabled by a kind of vacuum of legal disorientation of the national security system. In addition to commanding the military and chairing the National Security Council, the President of the Republic has been given the role of directing the entire system. So, according to the current strategy, it was the government's task, while the president was just pointing to certain problems and starting to solve them. What should have been done, and for which I think there is no time now, because it is the end of the year and this session ends, the section of the strategic environment should have been renamed to a security environment and divided into three continents, as other national strategies of other serious countries do, therefore, at a global, regional and national level, so, let's say, in the global security section, a strategy proposal should be put in place for Serbia to react to the growing tightening between NATO and Russia's relations. It was also necessary to explain the methodology that presented the challenges, risks and threats, to clearly classify them and classify them according to used terminology, so what are challenges, what are threats, and what are risks. It was also failed to explain what the concept of total defence implies and thus justified its introduction, to specify the meaning of declared military neutrality and to explain this definition, to introduce a control function into the national security system and to explicitly submit it to democratic civilian control, in principle and in particular, to explain the increase of the role of the President of the Republic in the national security system, to the National Security Council to assign the role of co-ordinator of the national security system, and not to one of the system managers. This was also supposed to follow the draft strategy of foreign policy. Now I'd end up with three specific questions I hope you'll give me an answer. The first one I mentioned earlier in the Strategy, unlike the benefits Serbia has with NATO, the benefits of co-operation with the KDKB are not listed. And in the work dealing with challenges, risks and security threats, it says, firstly, that armed aggression against the Republic of Serbia in the coming period is unlikely, but cannot be completely excluded. So, from whom does this specifically threaten an armed attack? In a work that discusses the intelligence activities of foreign entities, they have continued to act on political, economic and security factors in the Republic of Serbia. So I'm interested in what services are they currently doing on these subversive activities? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67943	The word is made by Minister Alexander Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67944	I thank you, Ambassador Radojevic. Now, first of all, I don't know where you found an increase in the authority of the President of the Republic, our commander-in-chief because... I will consistently quote for our viewers who are following this, and the MPs have a text. Therefore, the law and the Constitution -- the President of the Republic, in accordance with the Constitution and the law, commands Serbia's military, adopts the doctrine of the Serbian Army, adopts and orders the implementation of the defence plan, gives consent to the draft basic development planning documents and provides guidelines for building the operational and functional capabilities of the Serbian Army, performs other tasks in accordance with the Constitution and the law. This is a defense strategy. The strategy - President of the Republic expresses state unity to the administrative system of national security, chaires the National Security Council, unites and directs the functioning of the national security system and commands Serbia's military in accordance with the Constitution and the law, declares the law and adopts acts from its jurisdiction in the area of security and defence. So nothing's changed. His powers are exactly the same and given exactly as the Constitution and the law, nothing else. He only does what he does. What, and I am partly answering some of your questions, which is going to come out, or what can come out of these very strategic documents, is the resolution and roles of the President of the Republic and other factors of the defence system in the war. This is all meant for peace and this is how it works in peace, but who commands the country in war? What's the role of General Staff? What is the role of other defense factors? What is the role of the President of the Republic as commander-in-chief? These are questions that we haven't had an answer to so far, and I want to have an answer, and when that answer comes, all of you MPs will plead for the answer, because that comes from this strategy. The strategy itself cannot unite all of this and cannot tell you this document, as it has never, as you know, and is nowhere, but from it these questions can get answers, because they need to get answers. You have rightly said that we brought in the last strategy in 2009, and things have changed since then, but as you know, even then in 2009, we didn't give any answers to exactly the questions that you asked. This is now the way to go towards giving that exact answer. When you say defence, you don't mean the military, you think of all the defense factors, and that's the M.O.P., so the police like it was, there's the army, of course, they're civil protection units, that's the B.I.A. So everything that can be used at a given moment as a defense. The concept of total defence was brought in for the first time in 2009 and that's where it cares. Not another word has been said - what will it be, what will it look like? We were just talking, the active army endures the first strike, and then comes, who comes? It's a concept of total defence, answer to the question – who comes? In order to achieve the concept of total defence, of course, it involves the participation of the entire nation, the participation of civilians, and it is not just with us. The concept of total defence was not invented by Serbs or in 2009 or in 2019. It's a concept with a wave of small and medium-sized countries that have neither the ability nor the financial nor human to withstand such a great pressure of standing armies. During NATO aggression, the standing army accounted for about 85,000 people. Look out, 85,000 people, and it was the same size of the country. We're here somewhere, 85,000 people, and add to that reserve, the MUP at that time, volunteers, what we already had, and that's about 200,000 people. Do we now, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, have 200,000 men ready and trained to fight? Hardly. After all these years, it's been really hard. So, you in the concept of total defense must go towards making the country resilient enough to prevent any attack. The concept of total defense is not aggression. You can't train a civilian with the idea that he'll cross the border now and attack someone. You train him to be in his country, to be in his city, in his village, and if he has to fulfill his role, if there is aggression. It's a preventive function again. The concept of total defense has yet to be worked out. There are various examples of the world, and we will develop it, and it will still have to be worked out in front of this National Assembly. We can't bring it on our own and carry it on our own. On the one hand, you are right, of course, the government has authorized me to explain these laws to you, but the concept of total defence requires, say, the engagement of the Minister of Education, as we are already working on it, and that means introducing certain items where children will learn certain skills, certain skills that can be useful in the case of war or war, but also in everyday life, and not just education. We're also talking about environmental science. Of course it's potentially a major threat. We mentioned cyber warfare here. We've mentioned all the things we recognize and try to find adequate answers to them. This isn't over and you don't have all the answers here and you won't get them, but you, as well as the National Assembly, and the Government, and the Ministry, will say. What makes this strategy different from some of the previous ones is that... You know, historical nations differ by having a consistent policy no matter who rules. We Serbs for the first time define the national interest as we see it, as the ruling majority here sees it. It's an obligation for us. You said we're not the people who run it based on documents, strategy. We want government based on documents and strategies, and that's why we said this. It would be easier for us, ladies and gentlemen, from the point of view of politicians, if we hadn't brought this. What would we commit ourselves to in front of you and the people? There are enough legal grounds for you to be able to implement the policy you want, you have the departments in charge, you have the military, you have the police and you can implement it all, but I think it's very important, very good to go before the nation to know how we see our nation's future and what it is that we consider challenges and threats, what it is that threatens us. As far as civilian control is concerned, let me immediately tell you that the Ministry of Defence is developing action plans, proposed by the government of the Republic of Serbia, adopted or not adopted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. So, civilians in the entire structure and how they decide what they do and what they do with defense, with the military, the Department of Defense. Don't worry about it. As you know, the competent congregation committees regularly receive all reports, declare themselves. With great pleasure, I can say, while DOS representatives participated in the work, and they voted for appropriate conclusions. That wasn't the problem. You also have an inspector within the Department of Defense who, for example, engages in security services and who gives his information to the relevant assembly committee, regularly controls himself. Civilian control is here absolutely represented and there should be no doubt about it. What's the use of co-operation with the ODKB? Serbia's army learns from anyone who can learn something from it. Learn from e.g. The special units of the Russian Federation or the engineering of the People's Republic of China, that's a huge benefit. It's a huge benefit to us. Of course, I think they should learn from us, as they do from us. We have serious war experiences, exceptional elders, and how to learn from us. It means a lot to us as an army. Just like we do through the Partnership for Peace, so we learn from them how they function, what their procedures are, how they use the appropriate weapons. You know, for soldiers, here, and in the National Assembly, we have soldiers, but there are no former soldiers, there are no former generals in particular, the greatest desire of every soldier is to learn about other people's military experience, not on our own, if it's possible in any way to avoid wars, that we don't repeat it anymore, but it's a great thing for us to learn how to use the PSC in Syria with new means of challenges, as it has been done, as it is of great interest to us to find out how Western countries use their weapons, which is a strategy of application. So it's hugely beneficial. We learn both east and west. I'll remind you that the biggest part of our weapons is Soviet production or Soviet tradition, and then it's perfectly logical that you use that weapon and learn how it's used by those who made it, those who no doubt know best how to use it. Although I say how innovative our people were during NATO aggression, they have a lot to learn from us. So we learn from everyone, we learn through the Partnership for Peace, and we consider it an optimum. So it's no deviation. It was said as it was then. More participation in the Partnership for Peace in the way NATO's membership is in the pact, which we won't be. While President Vukic is Serbia's president, while the commander-in-chief of the Serbian Army, while this ruling majority, will not be in NATO's pact. That means this is the highest form of our co-operation, and it's an optimal form of our co-operation. On the other hand, we're working with the ODKB and we need to work with the ODKB. Why don't we study on that side? They're not enemies. They're not asking us to give up any part of our territory. They're not asking us to change the political system. We're just working together on a military basis, as well as we'd like. The better question is, how did you bring the Declaration of Military Neutrality and never cooperate with the ODKB? How come now? How are you militaryly neutral and you don't want to cooperate with one side of the world? That's the first question. This way we provide a fully balanced policy. In this way we can say with pride – we cooperate with those of whom we need cooperation and do so. We, I hope, are coming next year, close to me, so maybe I'm wrong, so in 2020, we're going to have, like, the first military exercise with China. It has never, ever, been in history since our dear and beloved Serbia, the People's Republic of China. We'll have a military exercise. Why don't we have a military drill with China? Why don't we learn from the Chinese how to use their resources? How do they do that? Why don't we do it? It's military neutrality. China is not a member of the ODKB. China is not a member of any military alliance, but there's a way to cooperate with them. So, we're working with everyone and the real question is why we haven't done it so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67945	Thank you. The word is made by MP Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67946	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Ministers with Associates, Honorable Officers, Ladies and Gentlemen National MPs, this is a very important law and proposals of the National Security Strategy, and a proposal for a decision to use the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations outside the borders of Serbia, which is something of the key national interest of the Republic of Serbia and I am glad that today at the session of Parliament we can discuss in one quality and open way, how you, ministers, have always done, at times very openly, always very precise, always concrete, always concrete, and what is most important to us here in the National Assembly, at least for us who represent most, always in accordance with the national interests of the Republic of Serbia and with the national interests of our citizens and especially of the Serbian people. As I prepare for this session, I have read a lot of material, a lot of articles, a lot of reports about what the Serbian Army and the Ministry of Defence have done in the past few years, starting with the mandate of the defence minister, or the president of the state who was then the defence minister, so today is your mandate, when we consider one fact that Serbia is a neutral country, but Serbia is today a country that is suitable for co-operation with all countries, and as you said earlier, we want to co-operate with all of us. As we do this on the economic level, the economic level, we do so on both the military and the defence plan, and what is excellent in the past few years, it is that we want to learn, we want to restore our army, we want to strengthen our military and our defence forces, because it is Condition Son Qua not further modernization of our country, further improvement of the geopolitical position of our country and of the strength of our army, the strength of our defence forces, but also the respect of our army by the citizens of Serbia, of course, that is where we need to advance us here in Parliament, you in the government, to restore this, not to say cult, but respect for the flags, respect for the institutions that have the greatest trust of our citizens, which depends on the future of our country, that is in fact the greatest result of the Ministry of Defence and the Government of Serbia, which is that we have achieved a high level of trust of the citizens of Serbia in our military and our defence forces. This strategy of defence is very important that it clearly and precisely defines what will be the goal and what will be the strategic objectives and strategic plans of our army and our defence forces, or the Ministry of Defence in the coming period. I would single out what is most important here, which is protecting the sovereignty, independence of our country's territorial integrity, protecting the security of the Republic of Serbia and our citizens, preserving peace and security in the region, improving national security and defence through the process of European integration, military neutrality and co-operation and partnership with countries and international organisations in the area of defence security. Mr. Minister, I must tell you that the participation of our forces in multinational operations is something that I personally could see for myself as a member of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia delegations in contact with representatives of various states, with the most powerful forces of the world. For example, for example, I am giving the United States, something that is most valuable and highly appreciated in the circles of foreign and defence ministries, because our soldiers are highly appreciated and that our step and participation in peace operations is something that raises the level and reputation of our country on the international agenda and on the geopolitical agenda and I congratulate you and of course you have, I am sure, full support of the majority in parliament to promote this system of co-operation both in the UN and with bilateral, multilateral co-operation when it comes to multinational operations. I also want to say that the very important co-operation that the Serbian Army has with the NATO Pact or the ODKB and the great news is that next year the Serbian Army will have a military exercise and defence forces of the People's Republic of China, because if we have a situation that we have six billion euros in investment of Chinese companies in Serbia, if we learn from them in the area of construction of infrastructure, construction of railway infrastructure, management of factories, and they have shown that they have an economic growth in the past 10 to 15 years from seven to 10%, that they are brilliant in this area and that they are very fast in this aspect of economic, economic and military development have shown that we have something to do with China, to work closely together and of course all congratulations on what we have established so close and good military co-operation. Of course, it is very important to co-operate with our military and NATO Pact, with the National Guard of Ohio, especially in the area of emergency situations and crisis and risk management in the area of emergency situations. This shows only one width of Serbia and what is essential to explain to our citizens, which is that, if there is a wise leadership, if the head of state with President Aleksandar Vukic has a clear plan and strategy for Serbia to go not for the next two years, three years, not in the next election cycle. He, man, leads this country visionaryly, in line with the goals we want to meet in the next 30, 40, 50 years, starting with meeting our country's demographic goals, our capacity, restoring our country's national interests, protecting our territorial integrity and sovereignty, but also meeting the most important preconditions for that, which is economic development and economic growth. I must point out that in this year, we will exceed 3.5 billion euros in foreign direct investment, that exports of the dedicated industry will surely exceed some 800 to 900m euros, and this represents a serious export capacity of our country and this neutrality and foreign policy management in the way the government of the Republic of Serbia has led to what it has done on the international agenda, President Aleksandar Vukic, in view of its excellent personal relations with both President Si and President Vladimir Putin and with Vice President Pens, with McCron, with Chancellor Angela Merkel, is talking about how we can find a modus to be neutral and parallel economic development and military development of our country. This is definitely what Serbia has shown, as can be and what we have done thanks to Alexander Vukic to withdraw, 17 countries have withdrawn recognition so-called. The hairs of the past year and a half. So, by hardworking, dedicated work, we can convince all those at this global level in the world that Serbia adheres to international law, but also to convince our partners and our friends to also respect international law and respect the right of the Republic of Serbia to have its integrity and to defend its sovereignty in the 21st century. So we showed that patriotism is a result and that it can come to great results. I will especially refer to what you have apostrophe in your opening speech, which is that today we are taking care of the interests of Serbs not only in Serbia, but in the whole region, and today it is not a shame in our country that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has very often joint meetings with the Government of Republika Srpska. It is no shame that Milan Knezevic and Andreja Mandic come to every celebration, to any celebration or marking of some difficult events from the past or Ivan Stoilkovic from Macedonia, or our colleague, Gvosdenovic, from Romania, yes, Popovic. This suggests that Serbia today has a very clear strategic plan to take care of its national interests through its care for its people, not only here in the Republic of Serbia, but outside Serbia, through investments in those parts of others, especially neighbouring countries where it is necessary to preserve the Serbian people, where its substance should be preserved, where our faith should be preserved and thus, through one wise policy, preserved Serbian national identity, strengthened Serbia, strengthened military, strengthened economically, so that it can further progress as a modern, economic and political strong state. It is no accident that President Vukic sometimes refrains very often from giving a small and stronger statement when it comes to happening in countries in the region and is working precisely to protect our people in these neighbouring countries, because any strong, strong word can do perhaps something to make the environment for the life of Serbs outside the Republic of Serbia negative and that they may suffer some consequences within that. What I also have to add is the fact that I fully agree now politically as someone who is a politician, I was talking about the strategy of defence and the importance of adopting this National Security Strategy, the participation of our forces in peace operations, multinational operations, but also to say that there is an excellent article that has been written, which you have written and which is called "Why am I for demarcation? “, in which it is clear that in a very political, very written way, it is explained why Serbia must safeguard its national interests, but why Serbia must be pragmatic, why Serbia must be turned to the future and finally come to the place it belongs and in accordance with its material, human, natural resources that we never go back to the old ones, that we do not always talk about certain things that we cannot always do in the international community or in the region to meet, but why we need a clearly defined state in order to meet all our strategic goals and to be able to come to that level that Serbia belongs. I think that everything is said in one sentence, I will end up with this topic, which says: "Our ability to recognize it, to offer the first solution and attitude, which is of crucial importance, now it is time for Serbia to offer solutions first, we must no longer allow to wait for the ready-made solutions that will not contribute to us, or that, God forbid, we come back to the situation to tear down our churches, to persecute the people, to arrest people not only in the southern part of Kosovo and Metohija, but also in the northern part of Kosovo and Metohija, now we must be proactive, to be transparent, and to have in mind only one fact – to protect the Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija in the best possible way, to protect cultural, historical and religious heritage. And to continue with this, it means we find ourselves on the line of thinking big ones, but not to do it again, the unmistakable burial in Kosovo where the last resistance of song and memory is provided, but not victory, but Misic's chasing at Kajmakalan, where we did not free Serbia, but we started to release it, is evidence of historical maturity that has not been discovered, but it has not been for a long time, and I now believe that we have this maturity and that in one mature way we have to approach the problems. One of the key conditions to come and fulfill our national interests is the fulfillment and realization of this national security strategy, defence strategy and concern for our national interests and now, but also in the future, but in a pragmatic way, respecting the facts and respecting reality, fighting for their rights, fighting for the rights of our own people, which we do all these years and despite those who have not been present here for months at the session, who have said that Vucic will give Kosovo to Vidovdan, that he will give on certain dates, holidays that are important to our people and none of it was. Why? Why are they doing this? Because it is in favour of, of course, some countries, countries and services that are not in the interest of Serbia progressing, which is not in the interest of Serbia being fully modernised and also as the economic and political leader of this region. Because it doesn't respond to strong Serbia, because it suits them to come to power in any way and do what they did from 2000 to 2012, leaving 400,000 people out of work, leaving entire factories devastated, selling to the state and selling factories to tycoons and speculators and suspicious businessmen. It is not the way of the state, nor will this people allow it to trust such people anymore. Such public opinion research is currently, over 55% of the support President Vukic has from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia because we want full employment in this country, because we have reduced it from 27% to 9%, because we have three and a half billion euros in foreign, direct investments, because we have built 250km of highways, because we are building the Belgrade-Budapest railway, all the way up to Poland, via Slovakia, the Czech Republic and Poland. Because we want to connect better with countries and Western Europe, but of course with our neighbours. We built Corridor 10, we built Milosh the Great, we built the Moravia Corridor. We're building roads together with our partners from China, from Azerbaijan, from Greece, from the United States. Everyone here is welcome if they want to cooperate on an equal basis, to invest, why not, to fertilise their money and make Serbia a good destination for both business and life. We want a modern Serbia, a country that will be opened, a country that will be rich, in which citizens will live in an honorable and dignified way from their own work. Serbia can and that is Serbia we promote, that is Serbia, which is also promoted by President Vukic, who is promoted by you ministers, because the defence is beside economic development, parallelly, I can't say now even though I always put one serious focus on the economy, defence, strengthening the military is a pillar, a key to modernisation and the development of a country. We don't need to go too far to see such examples, and it's not neutrality that will lead us to some dark fairies and all those who say that we have to define ourselves are wrong. We've shown for these seven years that we can co-operate with everyone, that we can be, maybe not friends, but we can be partners with all countries on an equal footing. So it's not at all questionable that we can run such an international wise policy, that we have partners from all the countries in the world who want to invest here. So it's not at all questionable that we can run such an international wise policy where we have partners from all the countries in the world who want to invest here. We want and why not, an example for the development of the state, a defence force, an economy, could be Israel, Serbia should be the Israel of this region, because it is the country that, out of the 500,000 inhabitants in 1948 when their independence was declared to be 10 million today, which has one of the strongest, strongest, most powerful armies in the world, the strongest, strongest, most powerful sector of information technologies. Why? Because maybe they're naturally rich. Well, they're not. They don't have any wealth. Serbia also has a natural wealth, has people, has good resources and with such a policy, with such a clear strategy of economic development, state, defence, a clear strategy in Serbia's behaviour in international relations, I am sure that in the next few years we can also achieve good growth and become a leader, not only of the region, but of the whole of Southeast Europe. Finally, I apologize, Vice President Arsic, to commend this agreement that we will ratify, I hope here in Parliament, with the Czech Republic. Always in his speeches and performances encourages all of our civil servants and government members to cooperate more with the Visegrad Group countries, with the Czech Republic, with Slovakia, with Hungary, with Poland, with our neighbours Romania, Bulgaria. These are countries with which we have no open questions, and we have very little economic, military and any other co-operation. I'll just remind my fellow MPs on a wonderful day from the time of Milan Stojadinovic when he was prime minister. Here we had a delegation of 75 MPs and the Czechoslovakia Parliament in the National Assembly, and then we had great relations. We were a member of Male Antante. A policy in which Serbia was built as the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, an economically strong country, was then conducted, but geopolitically well-positioned. I hope that we will be more successful than we were in those days, and I am sure that we will use all our capacities in that domain and that our military and our defence forces will play a role that they deserve and, of course, in building and modernising the country itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67947	The word has a minister, Mr. Alexander Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67948	To thank you for carefully reading everything we have written and for making great effort to see what is proposed, to appreciate and to understand how important this is for our country and for the concept of our defense. You are absolutely right, I have heard since 2012 that Kosovo has been sold and that it is now independent, now independent, has not been before, but has finally become independent. You know, it's very interesting that Hashim Thaci, who, if at least he showed nothing else, had no word, had no anger, could not be trusted, told them I did sign the Brussels Agreement, but I'm not going to implement it, I'm not going to implement anything. Well, wait till you do what led to your independence. Isn't that the agreement that gave you independence? How come now that you will no longer negotiate with Serbia when all this leads you to independence? That's not true. It doesn't lead them to independence. They're getting further away from independence. It's a huge credit to President Wolfie. In 2012, they drew conditions for us, they didn't talk, they said – they signed this before you, it's up to you to implement it. And, in the meantime, we fought for it, and in the first place, President Vukic fought for them to listen now and ask what our interests are, which cannot be overcome. What can't be crossed? I've remained a long-standing response to who the dangers threaten. All countries, and even very large countries, countries armed with nuclear weapons, have a similar formulation, and the formulation is – aggression on our country is unlikely, but cannot be excluded. That's absolutely right. How can you in the Balkans completely rule out aggression on your country? How? How can you do that? I'm not that brave. I'm not so brave as to say that it's impossible, that it's unimaginable. Unfortunately, in 1999, we saw that it was very imaginary and in 1998 we saw that it was very imaginary. As you can say, I'm sure that can't happen. Wait, so you have people in Pristina who say they'll take Nis. Here you are listening to that crazy old lady, Edith Tahiri, who comes out and says -- if you don't recognise Kosovo, there will be war. Then how can you shut down completely? You see, if you're going from the concept, it's a long time ago, in early 2000, we had the concept of then the ruling DOS that he said -- we're surrounded by friends, we don't have secrets to our friends, so they've abolished the encryption at the Foreign Ministry, we've abolished among other things and external intelligence with an explanation -- well, we don't have secrets. Now you have no secrets. What country in the world has no secrets? What country says for itself – I am surrounded only by wonderful friends? Okay, who's going to attack Switzerland? Switzerland has a regular military service and I have a reserve we can only dream of. When I tell the reserve, I mean both human potential and technical potential. So they can't turn it off, and we can turn it off. We can't turn it off. No one can ever shut down in the Balkans. At this point, she's a little bit likely, not for others, but for us, because we're stronger, and then she'll think twice about whether it's worth it. If we are weaker, the weaker we are, then when did we have an armed rebellion in Preshevo and Bujanovac? When we were weakest, when we were on our knees, when they were pulling the army, when they felt the state's leadership didn't know what they were going to do. Just thanks to Serbia's military, some of them here, some in the assembly, only thanks to the Serbian Army's stubbornness did not leave that part, only that. Now that you have all this, how can you say with certainty – it will never be? If this Assembly firmly believes that aggression on our country is impossible, then the next budget should vote to abolish expenditure on the military, because it is a waste of money. The army serves to protect the country. She's got three missions and a peace mission, and she's got help from civilian authorities, but the military isn't pretending for it, the military's pretending to protect the country. If we're convinced that the possibility of aggression is nothing, that it will never be, that the military will be abolished, it's over 90 billion dinars. You know what you can do for 90 billion dinars? But who has the courage before the offspring and the future generations to say such a thing? That's impossible. So I just don't have and repeat again, aggression is a little bit likely, but it can't be ruled out and that's how we have to act. You mentioned military neutrality. Yes, we will endure, while President Vukic is the president of this country, we will be militaryly neutral and there is no force and pressure that can change that thing. I still want to add, yes, military neutrality is expensive, it's the most expensive form, it's very expensive. Expensive political, expensive economic, expensive because you have to have everything, you have to have it all on your own. You know, if we weren't military neutral, if we were part of the NATO Pact, so we wouldn't have an air force, there's no need. If you need someone to provide your airspace, so the neighbouring country is asked, as is the case for Northern Macedonia, as Montenegro does, as Slovenia does, so others keep the sky for you. Are you a free country if someone else protects your sky? Are you a free country if someone else takes responsibility in your space? No, of course not. That's why, as much as it costs, it costs, and it's supposed to cost. If the price of our freedom, if the price of our freedom can be calculated, measured by money, then it's the cheapest in our history. We unfortunately measured the price of our freedom with lost heads and blood. If we can get the money, it's never been cheaper and I'll always fight to keep every penny, but to keep our freedom without blood and not lose our heads. It's a better question, and how much does block classification cost? Here, I'll give you an example from our immediate environment. For example, our neighbours of Bulgarians with whom we have good relations, NATO pact members, are buying for over a billion euros new planes, you'll guess, Phantoms, buying for another 800m euros or dollars, don't hold me by my word, armored vehicles, you'll recognize, Western production, and for about a billion more they need to buy two frigates for their navy on the Black Sea. Whether they need it or not, that's the question now. What aggression threatens them, from whom can they now be threatened by aggression? What are they getting ready for? No one's asking. You come, you shut up, you pay. They don't even have that money, they've raised a loan for this. We for every plane, every bullet, we do it from our incomes, as far as we can figure out, how much we save, how much we buy, we don't take credit, we don't borrow. Our neighbors are in charge of buying weapons. The question is, wait, so you're on the block, who's going to attack you? What, is Serbia going to attack Bulgaria? We will attack Bulgaria, and we will wage war with the entire NATO pact. Don't get away from us, there's no need to spend money. Our neighbours of the Croats, what they bought, what they got, 400 armored vehicles. Now they've taken a division of punks, 14 Kai helicopters armed with Hellfire missiles, which significantly alters the strength ratio in the region. Now they've got over 60 Bradleys, about 20 more for spare parts. You know, it's heavy armored vehicles, it's not taken for a peace mission in Afghanistan. That's what he's fighting for. That's not what peace missions do. Some easier means go to peace missions. That's what they're using for. The question is, what are you using them for? And they should also now, according to their plans, failed to buy last year, they were supposed to buy from Israel F-16, in the Barak version, they did not buy. Now, by chance, they want to buy new ones. You know, it's gonna cost, it can't be under a billion, a billion and 200. Well, wait, you're in a NATO pact, the greatest force in the world, aren't you here to be safe, safe, why are you spending money on who you're spending money on? You can see that even block classification costs a lot. The President of the United States comes to you, as NATO's leading states of the pact and says - 2% of GDP will go to the military and point. And as you can see, it works. Of course, and the great powers agree that it's 2%. We only answer to our citizens. We spend as much as we have. We give as much as we can and as much as we have, and we don't find it hard to give for the army, because we all love and respect it so much together. But we give as much as we have. Neutrality is expensive, but, of course, block classification isn't any cheaper. Thank you for noticing this great news, this big change. Serbia led by President Vukic has the courage to protect Serbs, no matter where they live. You know, when we say "protection," I'm the Secretary of Defense, so when I say right away, it sounds like the tanks are going to go over the Drina, the Serbs over the Drina are protecting themselves in the first place in diplomacy and economy. So far, you've been patting your shoulders, kissing, where you brothers are, I'm glad to see you, and no dinar in the register of Republika Srpska, nothing. When it comes to it, who's asking you where you got it? If we can get something, we can take it, but give it to them, we can't. The government has now given 37m euros to the Republika Srpska government, plus in every municipality in Republika Srpska on average for a million euros in a project. Here, with any luck, and I'll be the luckiest man in the world if by the end of the year we just find the time, because we've fulfilled President Vukic's word, we've kept our word, the Jumka factory opens in Drava, 100 women employed in the Drava, a return place where Serbs are absolutely in the majority. I can't wait to see them working there. Now, that's the Serb strategy. You keep them for strengthening them, so they don't walk away from you, to keep them, to hire them there, to be there, to live, to work and to be where Serbs live, to know that Serbia is there. That's the strategy and that's what's first. First is the economy, followed by diplomacy. And our president made it clear, and the commander-in-chief of the Army - Jasenovac, Storm and the Martian pogrom will never happen again and that is clear to everyone. Never again. And it won't be without a strong Serbian state, it won't be without a strong army. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67949	Right on line, MP Vladimir Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67950	Thank you, I'll do it very briefly. I thank the minister for such exhaustive and detailed answers. I think these topics are of strategic importance to our country's development. What I can say is that we all have to work together to raise that budget, which is for the military and the defense still small. We should work on it. It's exactly what you said, Minister, that we're economically strengthening our country, so we have more to separate for arms and for the military, precisely in terms of strengthening, not only economically, but also strengthening our geopolitical position. And if, frankly, you said -- it's expensive, of course, it's expensive to have planes, it's expensive to buy helicopters, it's expensive to buy new equipment, I wish, honestly, if we had like Israel "the Iron Bowl". It protects the nation of Israel at all times from any attack, any threat. And we can't rely on it, you said it well, that there would be peace, that we all wanted well. Of course, it's normal, it's human, but it's our practice, but the terrain's denying us. You once said well, I noticed that when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija. It is said constantly, especially from some Western countries, about reconciliation, that it should first come to, as they would say, reconcilation, and then to some final solutions. You have not had a political party that is multinational in Kosovo and Metohija since 2000. What kind of co-existence are we talking about and what kind of reconciliation are we talking about after 20 years? So the process is actually the opposite. The economy, economic co-operation, trade development, free flow of goods, people and capital, is what Vukic is doing now and gets support throughout the region. So, both Albania and Macedonia, strengthening and strengthening our economy... (President: Bringing the end. )......................................................................................................... The possibility of more exporting. Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Thanks again for the answers, and this is really one of the most important topics for our country. I hope we can implement all of this in one quality way and, of course, adopt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67951	Thank you. The word is made by MP Borisav Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67952	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister Vulin, today here at the head of a respectable team, apparently, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, I think that we are at a session today where the debate is being held, taking the whole agenda, about matter, if not absolutely the most important for the state, and that certainly among several areas of importance. I mentioned it several times in previous sessions and asked the government questions, when the defence strategy and the national security strategy would come into order, because it was very carefully, carefully and carefully and elaborated in these two studies. Internal factors, particularly external factors, have also proven to have changed the picture of the country's overall security situation and situation and the country's position in relation to international intelligence and other entities. So I welcome that this has finally come and I'd like to say a few things. In order to discuss this material today, on these topics, it must really be strictly kept in mind as far as the debate can go and open things, given that these are delicate state matters and as areas fall into state secrets. That is why it is quite strong and very necessary at the beginning in the introduction that these are public documents, which means that this is a form of documents that can go public without any damage to the security and other areas of this country. I think it's well done and that's how it should be done. These strategies are documents, and this is highlighted, which serve as the basis for drawing up other strategic documents and doctrines and documents of public policies and normative-legal acts, but also all in the form of public acts. Why am I stressing this? Because I think, I may be wrong, but I want to say it, I'm thinking that as a Assembly, we'd be much better, more quality, more constructively discussing these documents if we were to discuss in the conditions of closed session for the public, because, no matter what these public documents are, we'd be in the debate to get something and beyond that, and in such a way, we'd look more closely at the things that have entered these documents, because otherwise there are a lot of questions that could be asked in these documents, but it's too much when you can't get answers that go beyond what's public. When it comes to threats to the country's security, I want to put the intelligence work of foreign entities towards Serbia, i.e. the intelligence work of foreign intelligence services towards Serbia. I think if we take as one element the possible security threat of this country on the outside, the other element is the threat of internal, or internal unrest and all other forms that can occur. But I am firmly convinced that major things and major dangers and threats of security in this country cannot arise from an internal plan, and I am sure, on my own, without incentive, not to use the weightier word, intelligence on the outside to create such an environment and such phenomena in a country that will lead to internal unrest and other forms of security threat. I am convinced, as I believe you are, that everything that is happening today in the country on that plan, which comes from the opposition, that it is not on its own, but instructed and assisted by outside factors. So I think it's very important, I'm going to end up taking this topic to say, how organized, structured, guided, human beings, etc. the overall system of national security. I'm sorry to step away from some of the principles, but when I say - a complete system of national security, I mean, of course, all military forces. It's a whole security system for me. I think that, in addition to what the minister here pointed out in his opening statement, it is now mentioned in the discussions of my colleagues, especially Mr Marinkovic, so the concern for the entire national corps, whether he was in the country or outside, I think it is very important that these documents point out, and I would put it in second place, as a struggle to preserve the internal stability and security of citizens. As far as this is concerned, I think it's very important how she's worked for us so far, that's how she's going to work and act counterintelligence and counterintelligence. It's the first pillar of the defense of internal security. When it comes to internal enemy forces, I will feel free to say so, because in every country there is, and especially when it comes to a hostile factor, i.e. specific intelligence services that most directly and primarily have to be opposed by counterintelligence services, i.e. our service. I think it's very important in the entire country's defence system and its security security system, and this is well highlighted in documents, efficiency of state administration and institutions. I'm going to make an example out of this. In 2007, when we first came to power, I am now talking about the coalition, of course, headed by the SNS, one of the basic electoral topics and definitions in the future ruling policy is presented very strongly – the fight against corruption and organised crime. I say, I'm many years old, but I don't remember that until then there was ever a greater political will for that fight. However, I would not say that we have done everything on this plan, or that we have not done enough, to be able to do much more, and I particularly think that we have not strengthened the country's institutions enough to fight corruption and organised crime. In such a situation you cannot be treated for corruption and organised crime, because it would mean the same thing as bringing a world-renowned surgeon to perform a complex operation and giving him instruments that are not sterilized. Results, surgery successful, patient dead. So I think that the need to strengthen all institutions, even the security institutions, should have been strengthened even more strongly here, although the truth must be emphasized for the will that big, big, big progress has been made in some institutions. In that sense, I'll point out the MUP. The interior ministry has made the most progress in the plan. I think internal control as a form of keeping a healthy appearance and good organisation in the MUP is an exceptional example of how it should be done in all other institutions. I want to say something at the end about the national security system that I mentioned, which is otherwise shared in the Strategy in management and executive, so I'd like to talk a little bit more about this national security executive system. I think that because of everything I've mentioned, and that I haven't arrived, because time is running out on us, I think that this document is missing, and probably because of what I said ahead, that you can't express something like that, because it remains a available document to the public, but there's still more to be said about the counterintelligence of our future, and about the internal security system and the security intelligence system and the Bureau for the coordination of the work of security services, etc. I mean, I'm not going to go into cases there are a lot of them, you know, over the last few years there have been a lot of drastic examples that have shown that counterintelligence has not been doing our jobs to a degree that would meet the need to counter the threat to the country's security. I think the counterintelligence service should review the work, i.e. the work of counterintelligence services, especially all services, when it comes to their self-operation on the one hand, and on the other hand when it comes to coordinating all services together towards the same goal or objectives. In that sense, I think we would make a move and deserve special attention to consider a further place, role, organisation, structure, management of the Bureau of Security Services coordination. I think that this sector in the national security system should be more concrete in uniting the work of the services and setting common objectives for all services, and thirdly, to seek to achieve the best objectives in each service's way and in part in order to achieve faster and better common objectives. The security intelligence system per me, and I conclude, deserves to sit down as soon as possible, that doesn't mean that something is alarming now, to sit on a certain and competent level and to consider, in accordance with today's working conditions, a complete organisation of each service, structure and joint operation, and on the other hand, what I said, how to strengthen the function and competence of the Bureau for the coordination of the work of services.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67953	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Stefan Miladanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67954	Thank you, Your Honor. I am sorry today that there are no officers among you, but I believe that in some future period we will have the opportunity to see the women officers here in the National Assembly. First of all, as an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group, I would say that, of course, all documents that are on the agenda today, and I will focus my exposure on the two most important strategic documents for the Republic of Serbia, especially when it comes to security and all citizens and citizens, with one observation, that I am truly sorry, that as someone who belongs to this country and someone who represents citizens in this high home, I do not have the opportunity to face my opinion or all of us here to discuss these most important strategic documents with one part of the opposition that does not, unfortunately, consider this as important. I would first and foremost refer to the National Security Strategy as the highest and most important strategic document that protects national interests, national values from challenges, risks and threats to security in all areas of social life. The national security strategy itself implies a system of complementary norms from the domain of national strategies in the area of the security system translated into a comprehensive and relatively lasting programme. Serbia has this strategy in line with its social opportunities in the present but also in the future and taking into account, of course, global changes and trends, protects its own identity, survival and national interests. National interests defined by this strategy are the most general programme definitions of state authorities and of course important political institutions in the governance of both foreign and domestic policies of the state. In our case, the basic systems of interest of national security are, above all, territorial integrity, or territorial integrity, sovereignty, protection by the Constitution of established order and certainly the protection of universal human rights. Based on a strategic environment containing a geopolitical definition, what theorists call geopolitical code, and the estimated challenges of risk and threats, the national interests of the Republic of Serbia have been defined, on the basis of which national security policy, structure and principles of functioning of the national security system, as well as how it is implemented. As I said, this is the most important document and as such contains also the declared national interest. In this case, there are seven, and the first among them is the preservation of sovereignty, independence, territorial integrity of the state, which implies the protection of territorial integrity and sovereignty, or the security of our entire territory, including airspace and territorial waters. The preservation of AP KIM, as part of the Republic of Serbia, is a couple of excellencies is a national issue. Defending its territorial integrity and sovereignty, Serbia defends both international law and the UN Charter and the Security Council's authority on the plan to preserve international peace and security, but also its national and historical identity. If some major forces challenge, and unfortunately by some political factors here, activity regarding withdrawing recognition so-called. Kosovo, the foreign-political action contributes to strengthening the position of the Republic of Serbia by protecting exactly the first national interest. I will remind you, 17 recognitions over the past three years and so on – 17 sovereign UN member states have withdrawn recognition so-called. Kosovo, these are: Ghana, Togo, Central African Republic, Republic of Palau, Madagascar, Solomon Islands, Lesotto, Suriname, Grenada, Union of the Chamber, Burundi, Commonwealth Dominicana, Sao Tome and Principe, Liberia, Guinea-Bissau, Papua New Guinea and several weeks ago the Republic of Nauru. And today, as we discuss this document, they exist, even though members of this House speak the language of Bedget Pacolli. The highest degree of hypocrisis is today's attempt by Marinika Tepic to devalue the results of the external-political action of our state summit recognised by a large part of the international community. Today's statement by Marinika Tepic has broken through, we'll all agree, all the borders of political struggle and thus stepped down, even the oath she signed here in the National Assembly. Today, it means for all citizens in the House of National Assembly, Marinika Tepic, in the hall, in the central hall, quoting Bedžet Pacolija, committed treason to the state, has endangered the very most important national interest, sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia, as well as all the Serb population at KIM. But to return, this united foreign-political action has contributed, as Ivica Dacic says, that no decision can be made today without the consent of the Republic of Serbia, because I will remind of 193 Member States, 95 UN Member States do not recognise, 93 admits and five member states have a neutral stance. The dialogue between Belgrade and Pristina, which was suspended by the introduction of taxis, incidents and new flammable statements by Pristina officials, does not contribute to the agreement, but creates new risks for the region and challenges for us. It is certainly necessary to mention the prevention of the removal of separatist activity and the activities of state institutions that can warn these activities and build society on the principles of universal values by promoting certainly diversity. The second goal is to preserve internal stability and security, and it includes protecting fundamental human rights and the freedom of other citizens, as well as other values of society from external and internal threats, certainly political independence, but also the stability of all state attributes, the fight against terrorism and in all its emerging forms and the prevention of all kinds of extremism and radicalism, mentioned several times today and the migrant crisis, that is, the challenge that the Republic of Serbia has been facing backwards for years as well as Europe and is responding adequately to, of course, obligations to international agreements and contributions to finding a coordinated and comprehensive response to the regional and European agenda. By all accounts, this challenge will continue and the Republic of Serbia will be able to respond in accordance with capacities and international standards. Serbia is working and will work to improve the capacity and capacity of headquarters for emergency situations in order to improve, faster, or more efficient response. I would especially single out cyber security, as a security city that futuristically brings new, unknown challenges, risks and threats, requires expertise, continuous monitoring of the development of modern information technologies and rapid response. Absolute protection against cyber attacks does not exist and therefore it is necessary to continuously monitor all technology, develop and informative protection, of course, especially vital infrastructures. The third national interest is to preserve the existence and protection of the Serb people, wherever they live, as well as national minorities and their identity. As a key objective here, the development of demographic potential is singled out, meaning demographic development, population policy, i.e. the ultimate policy, the improvement of social and health protection. Equally important is the smooth and regional development which is certainly prevented to some extent from internal and external migration, also improving the position of national minorities, improving the position of protection of the rights and interests of the diaspora, as well as the protection of cultural and historical heritage, enhanced activities in this respect in UNESCO, as well as other organisations in order to protect the visibility of cultural heritage. This is particularly important because of the attempts at various attempts at the revision of history. When it comes to preserving peace and stability in the region and the world, we will all agree that the contribution to international peace and security is seen through co-operation in both international institutions and organisations, the Republic of Serbia is working together with all relevant international bodies and organisations when it comes to preventing terrorism, organised crime, but also through the co-operation of competent security services and judicial authorities, certainly with participation in multinational operations and various initiatives. The document mentions some of the initiatives, and I would really mention, first of all, an extremely important one, which is the Berlin Process or VB6, where Serbia has actively taken part, has just shown this participation by some proactive attitude and understanding of the region of context in which we live, but also perspectives and through many agreements we have now ratified. I will remind you that one of the results of ratification is for the first time the headquarters of an international organisation in Belgrade. It is certainly necessary to strive, in fact, to insist on respecting the CEFTA Agreement. The policy of military neutrality, I agree with that, Mr. Minister, when you said it was a military neutrality of co-operation with NATO through the Partnership for Peace programme, but also with the ODKB, of course, co-operation with the Organisation for European Security and Co-operation through all three dimensions, is undeniable and should continue to co-operate and cultivate traditional relations with non-classified Member States. I would also take the opportunity to mention two initiatives that are not mentioned here, and I think it is important to mention them in the context of the implementation of exactly national interests. The first of them is the Belt and Path Initiative. I will remind you that since the launch of the Si Gjiping initiative, Serbia has also been actively involved in its foreign-political objectives, it has brought co-operation into this global project. This is an initiative, shown by the development of bilateral relations between all states in the format today 17 plus one, to directly affect the development of the economy and thus strengthen the economy which is one of our national interests. In addition to infrastructure projects, the development of economic co-operation, co-operation at an educational, cultural level, of course scientific, but also through the exchange of technologies and knowledge from different areas, all the capacities of the state are strengthened with regard to the protection and preservation of all those national interests. The second initiative I would like to mention is "Mini Shengen", as we call it, is an initiative launched by the president of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic, and precisely aimed at regional stability and development of the region's economies. This initiative confirmed that Serbia has a vision of the region and what a vision. This vision rests, above all, on economic co-operation, on four freedoms, which is the flow of people, capital, services and goods, and what is the essence of the progress of each country. Any opposition to this initiative, in particular the actions of the opposition, which had the opportunity to present its visions during the period when it was in power, shows not only that political amateurs, but that they are completely absent from the elemental political consciousness. A declaration on the establishment of free flow of people, goods, services and capital, in the Western Balkans, should improve regional co-operation in order to increase economic growth, attract investment and raise the quality of life of citizens. I would point out, of course, that in this respect and cooperation against cross-border organised crime, providing mutual assistance in response to emergencies such as natural disasters. The national interest of European integration, as one of the main foreign-political objectives of the Republic of Serbia, is going through, perhaps not the dynamics we would like, especially when it comes to Chapters 23 and 24 and for us, perhaps the most painful Chapter 35. Economic development and overall prosperity, as well as the conservation of the environment, are interlinked, in fact, all these objectives are mutual and linked and conditional. And as part of this seventh goal, the preservation of the environment and resources, I would say that as a state, we should deal with a more circular economy, because one part we will develop further economy, and the other part we should protect our economic resources. Security risks, challenges and threats have been formulated in the function of achieving national interests, but the tasks and tasks together make up the basic content of each, including our Strategy. Consistent implementation of this Strategy implies a clear involvement of all security institutions, an executive part that involves a defence system, internal security, a security-intelligence system, institutions responsible for foreign affairs, but also vital systems, such as health, justice, education, economy, in particular energy, telecommunications systems, infrastructure, science, and citizens. So, the National Security Strategy is being implemented by all of us. This is the most important strategic document, because all views, definitions and envisaged measures are aimed at achieving and preserving the fundamental national interests. National interests represent the unity of elements on which the basic needs of the state are based and cannot be subject to negotiation. They mean the state's readiness to protect its interests, in accordance with universal principles and certainly international law. So, this document, in addition to the exposés of the president, the state and government, is considered the most important national document, which should contribute to the preservation of the internal and external security of the state and is an honor to have the opportunity to discuss this document in the National Assembly. Following the National Security Strategy, I would briefly refer to the Strategy for the Defence of the Republic of Serbia, which also defines defence interests, which represent an expression of the highest values of the general needs of citizens, which protects, of course, all other national interests. The definition presented in this strategy unequivocally demonstrates the determination of the Republic of Serbia to develop and strengthen its own capacities and defence capacities in line with the decision on military neutrality. Military neutrality as a defence interest stems from its national values and interests and, of course, the international position. Certainly, military neutrality does not exclude co-operation, as we have said, with other states or military-political alliances. And that co-operation is being looked through, as I mentioned, and a partnership for peace, deepening co-operation with the Organisation of collective security agreements, the OSCE and so on. It is particularly important to participate in multinational operations under the mandate of the UN, continue co-operation in EU crisis management operations, contribute to the country's defence function, strengthen its position in international relations and, of course, the protection of universal values. Specially significant co-operation, and I might end up pointing out, is, in addition to those mentioned, of course in the National Security Strategy, co-operation with KFOR in the AP Kosovo and Metohija, in line with Resolution 1244 and in order to protect sovereignty and independence. We are defined, as we can read in the Defence Strategy, to continue communication, co-operation, as well as the implementation of joint activities, such as participation in teams responsible for the implementation of the military-technical agreement, further measures will be taken to prevent the transformation of armed formations, called Kosovo's security forces into the armed forces of Kosovo. The Kosovo authorities' decision last year to turn Kosovo's forces into a permanent army of Kosovo has received support from some major forces, but has caused anxiety among many European countries. Support, in this sense, must be asked of all international factors. Several NATO member countries have also assessed the decision inappropriately and have chosen a bad time to form an army of Kosovo, and a large number of states have condemned, of course, and introduced, the fees imposed on goods from the Republic of Serbia and BiH for a year now. The KFOR mission must remain unchanged in this regard and I believe that, as so far, it will continue to contribute to the stability of the entire region and protect everyone in Kosovo. Here, in the end, I would like to point out that it is extremely important to maintain good co-operation with all countries in the region, as well as with all international and regional initiatives and organisations, and particularly important to maintain the continuity of the review of periodic reports on the situation in Kosovo and Metohija, ahead of the UN Security Council. Both documents, according to their content and principles, objectives and implementation measures, are commendable. It will contribute, of course, to security, but also to the development of the Republic of Serbia. Like I said, we'll back all the laws, and my colleagues will talk about them later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67955	The word is made by Minister Alexander Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67956	To the honourable MP, let me tell her right now that we have a percentage of women in Serbia's military and the Ministry of Defence very high. I'll tell you now. There are 6.99% of Serbia's officers in our system and in Serbia's Ministry of Defence, there are women, deputy 1.96%, there are 15.41% of professional soldiers, and there is an army on a professional soldier, it's the military. Civilian faces are 51.97, and in the first place, don't think about red tape. It's not bureaucracy, but in the first place it's health care. In the first place are doctors, nurses, those who really care about the health of all of us, a total of 21.93% in our army are women, and in peace missions, right now there are 12.67% of women, and you take care of that, the army of Serbia does not go into peace missions that are the easiest. In the Central African Republic is the highest percentage of women in peace missions, because there's a level two Polish hospital, where there's a large number of health workers and that's exactly what you're talking about. I would also like to refer to the latest attack on our country, the latest attack on our country, the latest attack on our policy, which this Vice President of Gilas's party, a party of common sense, which has come up with insecure Shiptar accusations as if it were some kind of discovery, as if it were some evidence. She accused the Serbian state of buying recognitions of Kosovo's independence. Wait, if that's the case, I'll tell you, then it's cheap and God forbid we buy everything, if that's the case. It's very interesting that no one minded the shearing, say, buying a confession. It can, but Serbs can do everything they can to prevent recognition, or to withdraw recognition, it's a crime. Anything that favours Serbs is immediately presented as crime and corruption. We didn't buy anything. The countries have realised that international law is worth protecting and that international law makes sense to them as well. There'll be trouble for them tomorrow, so they'll have to defend themselves. But you know what, here we go, that the vice president of the common sense party is right. I'm sorry, Dragan Gilas has over 620m euros. How many withdrawals can Kosovo's recognition be bought for 620m euros? Come on, let him separate some of his money, so he can buy some land so he doesn't recognise Kosovo. There's a great opportunity for him to show what he's spending money on, to show how much he cares. I don't know, do they complain that some countries have decided not to recognise Kosovo anymore? Is that their fault? If they don't feel bad, if they think it's good, here's some help, they say, quote Bedget Pacolli, apparently his good friend, if they say that the Shiptar Bedget Pacolli is telling the truth, here, I call on Dragan Gilas to take out a few million euros and buy us two, three states. What's wrong? Here, before the elections, for God to see him, the Serbs will right away vote, say, "Oh, that's a patriot man, you see how he managed to solve it, to help us." Something tells me he won't, or he won't, or that's not how it works. I'm gonna have to define what's out of those two, or not to give your money or withdraw recognitions don't buy. It's on him now. Let him decide. He's got money, thank God, he can show, he can show how it works, he can do it. All in favour of Serbs is always crime and corruption. Aleksandar Vukic is a man who changed Serbia's position. What happened, the withdrawal of confession, was unimaginable. No matter how much money we paid for Wolf Jeremic's stay in New York? How much money did that cost us, five, six million dollars? Well, here, according to this Marinika Tepic account, we could buy, we could withdraw six confessions. Well, we better have done it. If that's the case, we'd be better off buying it than giving it to Vuk Jeremic. Of course not, and of course it doesn't work that way. Of course you can't buy that. But why are you muddying your people? What's all that's good for the Serbs? So wait, is there anyone in this assembly who's going to say it's not good for Serbia to pull a confession? Well, since it's like that, then what are you muddling about? Well, then, that's dirty. Well, it's not in the Assembly, they're boycotting the Assembly, they're not boycotting the diaries, but they're boycotting the Assembly. How can you? Why your country? Why do you always find a way to spit it out? Why do you always have to humiliate her? Well, they can't do that. Now that's how cyber warfare works. A statement by Marinika Tepic, not Bedžet Pacolija, will now be taken to whom no one trusts, but will say – the MP of the National Assembly accused Serbia of buying recognitions, and this will now be news that is being broadcast around the world, because it has greater credibility, when Serbs say so, so it must be so. They don't know what they think of Serbia, how they look at Serbia, they don't care, but they have a chance to do it. That's why it's up to me and you and everyone who deals with politics to expose that terrible lie and, here, let's ask her boss - 620 million euros, how many withdrawals will you buy from your own money if Marinika is right, and if she's wrong, so shame on you?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67957	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Bozidar Delic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67958	Thank you. Dear Ministers, gentlemen officers, gentlemen of the ministry, today we are discussing two extremely important strategic documents. If there were other conditions, we shouldn't be discussing two of these documents in one day. First, we should talk about the National Security Strategy and then about the Strategy for Defence that arises from it. However, we all know, we have entered the teat, this is our last regular session of the 11th convocation, and we simply have to resolve these questions at that session. Both documents have been made very high quality and are acceptable, although as Serbian radicals we have certain objections, because we have our political views, as we have all these years, and when it comes to these two documents. When it comes to our strategic environment, we agree, we read it, we know that everything can't be written and everything doesn't have to be written, something has to be read between the lines. Yet we are a small country, and we cannot afford, as some who are great and powerful do, to say exactly what they think. Here, when it comes to this, we disagree on the conclusion that the progress and accession of the Republic of Serbia is the EU, that it has a positive impact on our political, economic, social stability. Our point is we'll never get in there. These 20 years after the aggression against our country, the key EU countries, and the strongest countries, have not moved their attitudes by a millimeter to our advantage. What they've achieved with bombs they want to eventually realize and they support Kosovo and Metohija's independence, and we're here in the National Security Strategy, which is good and that every citizen should know what our position on Kosovo and Metohija is, and this is clearly highlighted here. When it comes to challenges, risks and threats, Mr. Minister, I have a bit of a misunderstanding here. There is a terrible problem in Serbia. It's not a challenge, it's not a risk, it's not a threat, but it's a terrible problem. I couldn't put him in any of these categories, and that's something I've now called extended genocide and ecocid over our country after NATO bombing. I don't know, gentlemen, whether you're present with the fact that in the last year, there's a new cancer patient named 58 thousand. Of those 58, it is certain that about half of the patients are affected by the effects of the poor uranium and the consequences of the fact that they are chemically available here in the vicinity of Belgrade and elsewhere. Gentlemen, you should know that Serbia's capacities and capabilities for treating 30 people are ill. I think this fact had to find a place and it can't be classified into this, as you gave it, but it's so important, because it's only because of the poored uranium that dies five times more people than it did in 1998 and 1999. There are other problems. I don't know why Serbia hasn't yet obtained adequate equipment that would be available at the Faculty of Chemistry, whether at the National Laboratory. The equipment costs only 700 000 euros, spent material 300,000 euros, and it is not only for that purpose, but for the control of every type of food and drink imported into the country. Without such equipment, Serbia cannot individualise the victims and link their victims to the impoverished uranium, and with that equipment it can do so. If that laboratory is certified, then Serbia can appear before those responsible. For the impoverished uranium almost exclusively America. Are we powerful enough to sue America? We can ask that in a certain way she participates in solving the consequences of what she did with her bombing, whether through medication, whether through hospitals, whether through treatment, because for Serbia this becomes a major problem. I think it was meant to be here in challenges, risks and threats precisely because the consequences are enormous and that our scientists admit that the trend of disease has failed to predict and guess. They calculated that this year it would go into one plane and after a certain number of years, the curve would start going down, and it would not stop going further and the number of newly ill would increase year by year. It is for Serbia, you believe, when you see all the risks and threats, you see what the consequences of them can be, much more difficult and much stronger problems. National interests. They are written and we have no objections, except for this one – European integration and EU membership. We're against it, and we'll always be against it. We believe that we will never enter there, but we have never said that we are not negotiating with EU countries, that we are not trading with EU countries and that in everything Serbia is doing, it is working to satisfy its interests. When it comes to risks and threats, another one like this is my remark, because somehow corruption is pushed along with other possible challenges, threats as irrelevant. I believe that it is extremely important, especially corruption at the top of the state, corruption at the top of the ministries, corruption in public enterprises, and especially in enterprises that are directly related to the ministry. Here's an example, gentlemen. Remember what a man can do to the state. Boris Tadic fired six hundred experts from the Military Technical Institute in one day. Gentlemen, this is the hardest possible blow to national interests, that is, to the security of the state. He decapitated a key institution that dealt with the development of everything that this country needed for its defence could not, he did not recover from the Military Technical Institute and God forbid he should recover soon. Hardly. But it wasn't just Boris Tadic. Right after that, we even had a personal duel, because I followed him on the road to the Czech Republic only to the airport, so we talked about the dedicated industry, where he says the dedicated industry needs to be reduced. It says -- we have more employees in the industry dedicated than half of Europe, which was an absolutely incorrect fact. After that, there was a crackdown of the dedicated industry, and this is also a blow to national security, to the National Security Strategy and to the Defence Strategy, and then to what is called corruption. The same Boris Tadic, along with Sutanovac of France's Tales, ordered funds for ties produced for another organisation. Technically completely exceeded and the organisation did not want to receive them, and Serbia paid, I even think, more than a tenfold price of that value, and if we add that almost at the same time in the MUP, the German system "Tetra", it is more than ever that great Yugoslavia invested in the systems of connections and telecommunications. What does such an investment mean and such a waste of funds? That's why we don't have "Pupin" anymore, we don't have an electronic industry and we don't have a lot of small companies that have dealt with these things. In 1999, when we destroyed all our station centres, we reduced our connections only to the use of a 200 watt radio device or one kilowatt, and the use of such devices in a situation where the enemy controls your airspace completely was a great risk. We only used them to send combat reports. At that time, 40 of some devices arrived from Belgrade that I had seen for the first time and were placed in all units, i.e. throughout the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, and we ended up having a radio relay connection of 12 channels not only to the assumed command but to the whole of Serbia. Five years ago, the device that was in my unit, because it was partially damaged, I saw it in that company, and it's called Digital Radio, it's the only company in Serbia today that can produce radio and radio relay devices. In communication with them, I spoke to the minister once, I said - people, so do you know down there what we needed most in Kosovo and Metohija? We had higher-level relationships, we were praised by tactical ties at tactical level, department, platoon, company. This company, not on my request, and I had no right to demand, inspire them, and they made a complete range of radio relay devices, from a special unit, department, platoon, company, battalion, brigade. Most devices are fully ready for serial production. The gendarmes and their ligatures come to watch the devices and say, "This is what we need as bread." We've got equipment coming up, and we need this. Whether even tactical-technical requirements for some of their special needs are suddenly coming and saying – we do not decide, decides the kind of devices we will have. Then the second time they say -- there'll be some devices for our gendarmes Turkish. If this country does it, it's the hardest attack on national security because if you buy guns, I know you need to buy sniper rifles, but they don't need 1,000, it takes 50 for special units, I know we have to buy thermals because we don't produce them, but when you buy a rifle, it's no problem, but when you buy radio devices, that's the problem. The earlier funds, the older ones know what the lights were, and the lights, and the transistors, they couldn't make them so the enemy would listen to you that you didn't know. Today, when it comes to chips, anything can, if it wants, be tapped. The police have a problem with Tetro, they know the Germans are listening. When they were tested in TOC, they were sending signals after a certain time, and the French responded – they reported they were alive and they were correct, but watch out, shut down the devices. I'm linking this to what I said -- back-up, back-up on my own strength. I would certainly rebel if someone said – you should buy a cannon. What kind of cannon, hoodie? We have Nora. Let her have some, let's say, children's diseases, we still have to work on it. They say: she shoots six to eight missiles, and our three fires. Three, so we who were at war know it's okay. We don't even ask them to increase it, and they say it's out of line and it's going to get better. So what's ours can be worse, but that's ours. We're investing in our own production. I heard that the Tales funds will be repurchased. Gentlemen, if we have our own production, and these devices have been compared to "Tales", but also with the best American devices, they are at the level of the best devices in the world. This firm, the ministry, and no one has invested a single dollar in it. Complete development led alone, but these aren't people that have dozens. It's just one team. I spoke to the minister, because people begged me that if there was a Military Academy, in electronics, if among these engineers who are being given had the talent to get into such a company, then to "ED pro" and other companies that now have to replace VTI in some areas to send people to return to VTI in three to five years and that they can continue the job. I am absolutely against any radio tool that can be produced in Serbia being bought because we are threatened with command, and when the command is threatened then the defence is compromised. So, you can't top it, buy a plane or something else to jeopardize the country as much as it can jeopardize the purchase of radio-telephone equipment. On that, Mr. Minister, I particularly insist that if this equipment is to be compared, and it is already compared, even in the Southport SDPR with the best equipment, to do so. What's one problem and it's all about corruption again? He says, "Who's going to buy your equipment, if he buys it, then there's no commission. Turkey gives a commission. You don't know what money Tadic's group got from Tales. He left several colonels and two generals in about 60 days in an investigative prison, but they had to be released, because every investigation ended with Sutanovac and Tadic, and I'm surprised why the government didn't solve the case, because he threw away so much resources, the devices that remained in storage and that, in recent years, the military was trying to do something with them, but with such technological equipment at such a level, there's nothing to be done. One more thing about military neutrality. Military neutrality, in any case, we support it, but we want, we want, radicals, to make one step. When it comes to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, we have been a member for many years, and when it comes to the ODKB, I was at the first Assembly organised from Serbia. At the time she was second power, she never let us go as observers, we went as guests. If we're already in the NATO Pact, it means an associate member, and we're nine years observers in the ODKB, let's take that step, because that Russian side says - if you're neutral, be equal to both sides. Someone here mentioned a total defense. Well, gentlemen, we know what a total defense is, so that was with us. This is just the interrupted continuity of it, and that continuity needs to come back now. It won't be easy, there are all economic operators, there are now many companies that are privatized, etc. But in 1990, in Kosovo and Metohija, I felt what was the total defense in which every company, where the maltenes were all engaged, from child to old. So it's nothing new to us, nothing unknown, but I'm not saying it's going to be easy to implement, because now there are very different conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67959	Thank you, General Delic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67960	Excuse me, please, just one thing. Congratulations to General Todorov and General Zivkovic, because we have special forces again, and that's how it really should have been.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67961	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mr. Alexander Vulin. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67962	First of all, congratulations to the commander-in-chief who ordered it, then on as it was carried out. Here are the two commanders of 72nd and 63rd, the war commander, I speak for our voters, you of course know it, and it's hard to find more proud people than they did for what happened, and it happened because it didn't have to be lifted. Now we're just correcting, unfortunately, something that should never have been done. Seventy-two and 63, two celebrated brigades, famous war brigades, brigades that were always where it was most difficult. Formed for a reason in '63 back in 1944, if I'm not mistaken, right, General, 1944, 72. In 1992, in the middle of a war for different demands. And watch what they did, then they're two brigades, they're heroic brigades, then they must have been so upset at that time in 2006 that they put them down to battalion level to punish them for what they've done, to punish them for the defense of the country and the defense of our people, to bring them down the lowest they could, they couldn't quite lift their names, yet the people who were so few people of special value to them, so it would have been a little hard to get past them, to know, the markings we'd give back to them as it was during the war, so they'd wear the markings on their hats with proper modifications according to our army. So they've been abolished without any excuse, and now they're saying, well, they're returning it to nothing, so it's like there's more of them. First, they will be when the formation process is over, they can't be anymore because that brigade doesn't count as two brigades, it counts as the corresponding number of battalions. So that's the first thing. The second thing, in 72nd and 63rd, is, in their intention, different from tactical use, to people who make them, completely different, each with their own function. They tied them to one as if it were possible. He can't. Now we finally fix it, and then we can devote ourselves to each other and each one to solve their problems. What else is important? The important thing is that now members of 72 and 63 will be able to stay, and soldiers know what I'm saying, for the rest of their careers in them. Not when his physical performances are no longer enough to be a member of a special unit, you know how difficult and complicated it is, there exists between the other and the instructor's company where he will cross over and transfer his experiences to those who are coming after him. There's plenty of room in the brigade to make progress. You know what a special unit member is? It's the best thing any army has, not just Serbian, every, Russian, American, Chinese, is there to put the best people, who are special, who are chosen both physically and mentally, people who have a special understanding of the world. Every army is proud of them. Now, when you bring them down to battalion level, he can only make progress in his unit to the colonel, no more than that, and there's no room to develop, to get new acts, to advance, he can't stay there for the rest of his life. There's one colonel's place, nothing more. So you're stimulating him to go, to leave, to go somewhere else, where he's better, and it's not easy to find people like that. It's hard to find. We've now made an opportunity for it, and here while I was listening to yours, I've come up with a question of one, of course, of the Western text, that's different, which asks why you returned, with which justification you returned in 63 when it was known to be the unit that committed the crimes in 1999. The river, they say. Look, they're already asking what you're returning to Serb troops, what are you returning to the heroic units? Shame should be upon us, we should put them out of sight. That's their question, and as you can see, there are immediately some Serbs who attack it. They tell us what they're going to do. They're going to get the eyes of the people. There's nothing good about it. Nobody needs it. Just a name we've saved for them, that's all. We brought back the Third Regiment of Fame, who shot down the invisible and shot down the F 16. Just give him his name back. In the U.S. Army today you have horse divisions, they don't have horses, of course, they have tanks, but they're called horse divisions, they keep tradition. In Russia today, you have the Guard brigades that freed Belgrade, which freed Moscow, ward as much, kept every name for them. Well, they're not the same units, but you keep tradition, that they have someone to rely on, that they're like them. That's how the army behaves. We're bringing it back now. It's been too long, it's never supposed to work, but it's just like that. As far as your objections to the EU are concerned, it is your right, you have your own political programme that I respect. Besides, it's the voters who said it. My opinion is very familiar, and now let me add it. As long as the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, which our National Assembly ratified in 2008, and in 2013, all other countries, as long as they are in force, will defend that position as a member of the Government. As long as that is the case, the EU will also find itself in the strategy as our strategic commitment. As for our weapons and our equipment, we, as you know, bought six Noras. We'll buy them a lot more next year. Now here are the negotiations that end at the end of this financial year. Of course not a single asset will be purchased if the Serbs produce it. The same goes for Lazarus, therefore, for various armored vehicles. We'll also buy Lazara a significant number next year. I stand firm in that direction, and the commander-in-chief of the Serbian Army was very clear when he instructed us to equip and strengthen the army. In the first place domestically, what the defence industry of Serbia produces, because you're right, even when it's a little bit worse, it's ours. Not only in the economic sense of ours, but it's ours, because it's only when you don't have to ask anyone anything. Any means to buy, whether you buy it from the Russians or from the Americans, you want to do something with it, modify it, sell it tomorrow, you have to ask for the consent of the one you bought it from, because it's his intellectual property. You decide as you will and only what you produce, only what you can do for yourselves. That is yours; nothing else is yours. Everything else belongs at the end of someone else's but, as you say, we're a small country, we have to buy what we can't produce and try to buy wisely and try to buy right. You're right, yes, Nora fires three, a panzer hoodie ten, but is the panzer hoodie a price-quality ratio six times better than Nora? It's not. And when you buy for that money three or four Noras, calculate the number of missiles, there's more. Not to mention, in the modern strategy of every war, mobility is the most important thing. It'll be harder to hit six moving tools than one. That, of course, is what all the wars have shown and everything we can do, we'll work in that direction. I will remind you, when it comes to the Defence Industry, you mentioned the relationship between the Dossier Authority and the Serbian Defence Industry, the numbers are inexorable. From 2012 to 2019, Serbia's defence industry exported 2,879,000,000 euros. Absolutely, when you look from 2000 to 2003, 164 million. Between 2004 and 2007, 420,000,000. From 2008 to 2011 727,000,000. So if you're looking for why they're attacking us so much, and if you're looking for why they're attacking Serbia's defence industry so much, here's the answer. I'll give you just one small example, it's good that our voters know that, our main competitor on the world market is Bulgaria. It sells to whom it can, as it can, we have a very close, almost the same repertoire, or what we sell. In 2018, between 2014 and 2017, Bulgaria's exports grew. In 2018, it registered a 38% decline compared to 2017. Doesn't it seem like they have some competition a little further? Doesn't it seem to you they have some Serbs selling on their markets? Doesn't it seem to you that it would be very smart to destroy the Serbian defence industry so it could all be theirs? And make it all theirs? You know, it's very interesting where the attacks come from, it's very interesting that they come right from Bulgaria. Here, I want to let myself say that in this high house when you mention that spy, so-called. alerter, all of you who have once earned a salary in your life, once in your life, in a private firm or in your firm, all of you who know what it means to pay a worker, all of you who know what it means to have a company and have a competition, just imagine that your employee goes to the competition and says the information that's important for your company to function, says how much you sell, because you sell, to whom you sell, where he goes, when he goes, how many seconds would that worker stay in your company? How many men would come out of Gilas's "Darekt Media" and say how many seconds did he buy and how much is he willing to pay for a second? How many seconds would you stay at the Darekt Media at Gilas? Well, you wouldn't stay for one second. And this alarmer, he's an alarmer, not a spy, and you still go to a foreign citizen to tell him after we're selling, because we're buying. Well, they have the competent authorities you're reporting if you have any problems. I listen to him, he says, as he said -- I was thinking about whether to do it, but when I saw the creepy pictures of the war, I decided. Well, did you think you were working at a juice factory that makes potatoes? And he still wants to come back to work in that Cruise. What does he think, that Krusik will stop producing weapons, that he'll start producing bread? So, he's had a hard time with pictures of the war, but he'd like to go back to Krusik to produce the same weapon and ammunition that he needs to take some lives again. That's why the defense industry serves. Every defense industry serves for that, for nothing else. It's not exactly for anything else. You know, I've listened long enough to how Alexander Vucic to sell to the defence industry, destroy the defence industry, I'm just telling you that the total value of the investment funds of Serbian defence companies in the period from 2013 to 2019 was 155m euros. President Vukic added 47.5m euros to that by the state when he was prime minister. Let me tell you that in the period until 2012, the state of Serbia as the owner of Serbia's defence industry invested zero, no single dinar. Well, that's how the defence industry of Serbia is kept, and so is Serbia, and of course we'll buy everything we can from our industry. Just one more thing, please excuse me, I've been very long, I'm sorry, but it's an important topic and thank you for carefully studying and for saying your remarks, and I thank you very much for that. From 2008 to 2011, therefore, beware, 32 assets were introduced into our weapons system. So whatever it is, we're not getting into it, so 15 of these funds were manufactured and patented by the Serbian Defence Industry, 17 VTI. Today, 46 defence industry companies in Serbia and 51 other VTI. We're also recovering VTI, we've hired 70 engineers, we're trying to secure stimulation, but you're right, it's hellish hard. They fired 400 people overnight. Those 400 people formed everything you're talking about and went abroad. Bring them back, that's how? But as you can see, these are record years. This year, and I look forward to the opportunity to promote it, we have introduced 49 funds into the Serbian Army's weapons. It is a record year, a far record year compared to the Yugoslav People's Army, compared to the best so-called. golden times. When we're talking, just to finish, we're talking about the NATO Pact, right now, let me tell you, the Dober Ministry is in line with its capabilities, in accordance with its competences, marked the 20-year NATO Pact, we've marked all our units, we've visited every grave, every man, we've started with what was supposed to be done 20 years ago, and that's to give a memorial to all the participants. It's a large number of people and financially it's very demanding and it's going to take years, but we're going to do it. We did so even for those who fought and died in Montenegro, who are no longer Serbian citizens, but fought for their country then. At every meeting with the representatives of the West, I always mention NATO aggression. I always tell them how much NATO aggression costs us. In Serbia's military facilities alone, you have over 80 Serb military facilities still polluted by unexploded funds after NATO aggression, only in Serbia's military. That's what welcomed us and we don't complain, we'll fight it, of course. Let me tell you, the Department of Defense has created an exhibition, one big exhibition on the topic of 78 days of defense. I would like all the parliamentary groups to come, General Delic was, and I would like every MP group to come and see what he looks like and see what the Serbian state has changed, how the Serbian state can tell what happened, tell the truth, not to be ashamed and invite all defence envoys and all, including NATO countries, to invite all ambassadors and to take every guest in the Ministry of Defence to see the exhibition. I'd like every MP's club to forget about politics, go see and just let go of the tears, because you won't get out without crying, you won't. I guarantee you that, because that grief shown there cannot leave anyone unhurt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67963	Thank you, Minister. Right on line, comment is Mr. Bozidar Delic, General. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67964	About the poored uranium and this large number of patients who increase each year, got your answer, related to two units. So every soldier, I think, and every man in this country was happy to hear that news. It will last until they are as they were, because they need to be equipped. I suggest we equip them with the means of a link that will be specially made for them and for every single individual in those brigades. Let me tell you, when it comes to prices, because now we've seen what our devices would be priced by tank, and what about the time Tadic got it, the difference is ten times. When it comes to sanitary vehicles, the difference is 20 times in prices. Then you can imagine how much corruption it was, how much it was a coup on national security and how much damage it was done to the state and how much our companies failed because someone else got 200 million euros. Here, you mentioned that 47 million were given to the dedicated industry. What would it mean if someone gave 200 million? Next, speaking of traditions, the 549th Motorised Brigade, which is also a heroic brigade, was first the seventh training centre in Leskovac, is now the third training centre, and continues the tradition of the 549th brigade. And today the people there, which was not my brigade, share my opinion and the opinion of all my elders that the center should be renamed to the 549th training center, which in the war gives 549th brigade. I think that's absolutely acceptable. The 549th Brigade Tradition Association will send you one such request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67965	Thank you, General Delic. Minister Vulin called to say the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67966	To respond to the poored uranium. We didn't consider it a place of impoverished uranium in the strategy, but it is a place in the state, it is a place in state policy, it is a place in the Assembly that formed a competent committee dealing with it. I really can't help but thank Danica Grujic, a teacher who does it in a great way. She needs more help. It takes a state and more to help. Maybe you should think about changing the format, and that's possible. I talked to you on that subject, so I'll tell you that. So, the poored uranium is something we're going to have to prove. Unfortunately, no court has allowed us to establish a relationship yet, but that will prove itself. I firmly believe, like you, that it must have something to do with it. Well, it's impossible to throw poor uranium and expect us to be healthier, to have curly hair. There's got to be some trouble. Look at how many NATO military alliances are suing their country for using such ammunition or using various illegal funds. So it's not something new. I agree, the state has to do it. I don't know if it's a matter of strategy, but it is a matter of state concern. Just to finish up, VT integrates over 30, as these young people say - hi to private enterprises, which deal with various development projects. We, by the way, work and manufacture on the license, but with our own development of certain radio devices, even for crypto protection. So that's what we do. Now, how successful are we gonna be and how fast? I'd love to be much faster and much more successful, but you should know that he's taking care of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67967	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We're moving on. The People's Messenger George Komlensky has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67968	Thank you, Chairman. Comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen, Comrade Minister, distinguished gentlemen generals with associates, today it's hard to speak behind all these people who spoke before me, especially those who know this area well, the area they've dealt with in their lives. But there's only one space left to comment on. It would be good if there were much more time, so let us also take a look at the Defence Strategy of the Republic of Serbia and the National Security Strategy of the Republic of Serbia since 2009 which will be in force until today, that is, until the day we adopt these new strategies. It's not a demagogy, but I really have to say that it will be an extraordinary honor and perhaps one of the most important things to be able as an MP to participate in defining the defence strategy of the Republic of Serbia for the future period, which has content almost entirely as I think it should have. It turned out from 2012 to 2019 that perhaps even the 2009 defence strategy wasn't as bad as the ones who implemented it, or those who came up with action plans. But what do you expect from those who aim to fight for the release of spies, unlike us who aim to free KIM from temporary occupation and again become an absolutely functional part of the Republic of Serbia as it was before 1999? You know, their action plans were the destruction of military resources, the suck-up contest, the apology, the self-indulgence. What humiliated themselves even by misery, but humiliated the Army, humiliated the people, humiliated Serbia, and what is most drastic is their action plan, which the NGO will replace the PSC. It doesn't exist, it won't be. Never narrators in black, yellow, orange, Natasa Kandic and their other curses have torn down opposing planes, stopped terrorists at the Serbian border but rather military-security forces that have their own clearly defined Constitution-defined place, and very important in the hearts of all those who wish Serbia well. The great satisfaction provided by the two sentences defining this new national strategy, which say - Military neutrality policy, strengthening Serbia's Army and training the population to defend themselves are deterring factors for armed aggression against the Republic of Serbia. This sentence says so much that the question is, is it necessary for those 40 and some of the sides to work at all? All this says that Serbia has decided to definitely, finally and clearly write and says it will and that it will do everything to be a military and political neutral, independent and independent state that primarily cares about the well-being of its citizens, which has no claim towards anyone else's territory, but at no cost will allow one inch of Serbia to go to another. Much has been done when it comes to improving material resources, not just in military effects. It would be very good if those villains had never been in power, because it's easier to upgrade the system than to make it over again, but we're where we are. Fortunately, we came at the time of 2012 to completely disintegrate Serbia's Army into a voluntary hunting society, which didn't even have identical uniforms, and to stop it today becoming a serious factor of peace, stability and security for all citizens of Serbia. When we talk about material resources, I also think about the salaries of military faces. That is why I particularly like the individual amendments to the Law on the Serbian Army, where the rank of first-class captain and first-class sergeant are introduced, because it simply speaks of one degree and possibility of advancement, the stimulation to progress. Because, frankly, all of what you said today in your own speeches, so it destimulated officers to advance rather than stimulate them to leave the army, I don't believe any of it was accidentally done. Everything was absolutely conscious and purposely done to stop Serbia from being a free and sovereign state. When it comes to human resources of total defence, much must be done to bring back what is most important, which is patriotism. I have to say with great pleasure, and be sure that I studied it well, we are very fortunate that our adolescents, our high school children are far more patriotic, far more nationalally aware and more fond of Serbia than the parents who raised them. The school is one of the important factors that must affect this part of the will, and it is very important, both for the professional army and for anyone who, hopefully, will never get into a situation, but if he comes into a situation to defend this country, he is aware of his obligation and that it is more honor than his obligation. Let's make it sound demagogue, but school classes have to start by putting the students in front of the school, getting in line in the classrooms, after playing anthem and raised flags. This is not demagogy, this is not militalism of any kind, this is something that states that claim to be the most democratic states in the world. Then why don't we take it from them, apply it and use it? There are many other ways to speed it up, but it has to start again. We've lost some generations. They are not dressed, they are not willing, but I am telling you that Serbia's youth prefers Serbia rather than many of those who raised it and that is what must be taken care of. The next thing I care about here is a sentence that says: armed aggression against the Republic of Serbia in the next period cannot be ruled out. And it can't be excluded and carefully reading this material I see, or it seems to me to see, between the lines that it was very well understood that wars on the globe have long, long not led between states, not water among some peoples, because there are interstate, international conflicts, but they are led by multinational companies that have bought certain countries, bought their youth, to war and die for their interests. They're invisible out there in the shadows, but here, in this material that you gave, they're clearly painted. This is why no possibility of armed aggression against the Republic of Serbia should be ruled out. What I will agree with my colleague Delic in part, I am not personally interested in joining the EU, I do not care, but what I will respect, which I have always said, is the decision of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia one day in a referendum on whether to join the EU, if there is one at all. Why is this part of the issue of co-operation with the EU important in this way? Well, we can see that it's quite clear that one co-operation with the NATO Pact, which I don't know why someone was baptized as, apparently, a defence alliance, I haven't heard that any state that was forced to defend the NATO Pact is a classical terrorist, aggressor organisation paid by multinational companies. The aggressor organisation, bombarding Serbia, has helped the KLA to temporarily occupy Kosovo and Metohija, Vesli Klarka has allowed her to hold two companies down, Madeleine Albright and all those villains who have prepared and invented both Racak and everything else, to take Serbia away from what is precious. That's how they learned to take everything and everything. For this reason, co-operation with them on military exercises, and co-operation with the ODKB, co-operation and with this rogue ZBOP has been very important. We are parliamentarians of an important EU member once, and a very high delegation was concerned, said the EU is preparing to establish and build its armed forces in the near future because it cannot count on a NATO pact. Therefore, co-operation with the EU's Common Security and Defence Policy is also very important. It is important to take over their experiences, but also to show on common exercises how capable our soldiers are and know and know how to handle the tools and weapons they have. I'm not going to list everything here where our very successful, in a variety of exercises, in Russia, in Bulgaria, in other places, won first place, where some of the most valued in terms of joint peace missions, because it would take us too much time, and time isn't enough. It is good to recognize that most of the topics of diverse interest today were taken by multinational corporations on the Berlin - Baghdad road. Fortunately or unfortunately, we're on that path and we have to deal with it. If we are to preserve freedom, we must be strong enough to distract them from any thought of trying to continue the abduction of the Republic of Serbia. What we also need to take care of is that from 2000 to 2012 we have entered many quasi investors from neighbouring countries, who did not just enter for profit. They put a good piece of our paw on food, on food production, on a lot of things, and that's one of the factors that we have to think about. Are Serbian investors so welcome in some neighbouring countries, such as Croatia? No, I don't. They've been prevented in every way possible from doing business there. Gentlemen, comrades, between the elections that as Bulgarians, as we mention them, we spend a billion or two billion to enter the NATO Pact, this is a message to those who propagate it, it is much more useful and better to spend two and three billion and buy S-400, because S-400 is today a symbol of freedom, S-400 is today a guarantee of freedom. Turkey separated, became an independent state, when it won the S-400. We saw what the reactions were to S-400 coming to Serbia. Some called it the S-400 tourist arrival. They were seriously shaken by the arrival of the S-400 system in Serbia, still having a dilemma whether it was still S-400 still on a tourist visit to Serbia or returned, whether it was extended or not, let them in their sweet torments. For all these reasons that I have stated, with pleasure, in the voting day, we will vote for these laws, we will vote for these strategies, because simply this is the real future, the real foundation for the safe path of the Republic of Serbia, behind these strategies can only come the real action plans that will put the Serb soldier, Serbia as a country in the right place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67969	Thank you, Mr. Komlensky. Are any of the other authorised representatives, or the president, answering for a word? Gjorge Vukadinovic answered. Here you go, colleague Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67970	Mr. Minister, gentlemen generals, this is important, I don't know if it's historic, perhaps you've exaggerated a bit, an important moment, and I agree with Mr. Delic that it might have been necessary to separate and provide the possibility to get into the details a little bit more aspects of this important topic concerning national security and national defence strategies so that they can discuss themselves in their political and professional aspects. I won't and can't get into these professions much, but I have a few dilemmas about these suggestions and about what was otherwise heard here in the discussion by Mr. Minister and by some colleagues. First of all, I think that's what I think, I say, it's not my fault, it's good documents, and it's documents that point to the seriousness of those who put them together, but to be seen in them, of course, it's not strange or unusual, it's also the complexity, so to put diplomatically, momentarily and geopolitical position of the state that proposes and adopts these documents. I say, I have an understanding of it, as I have an understanding, and without that, but, which usually follows, especially when speaking to an opposition MP, as much as he wants to be objectively well-intentioned, therefore, without but, I support this measure that you mentioned, which is a return, both symbolic and factual, of these units, means, professional units in their full capacity or at least with a tendency not to return to full capacity both 72 and 73 brigades. So that's what it certainly means, not only to the military, but to most citizens who know and appreciate the role and contribution these military units had, and not only, of course, those, but the entire structure and security system had in the previous period. What is also to be commended, although it is not directly related to these proposed documents, but it is something that was mentioned and what the minister in his presentation also mentioned and boasted, for a reason, it is this strategy of recognising independence, as an important element. It should be an important element of the overall state policy towards Kosovo and Metohija, therefore, without adventure, without some irresponsible wavering and heroicness where it does not belong, but persistently, that is what is important and what is my recommendation for those who want to hear and have time, patience and will to hear, persistent, systematic struggle on every corner, at every point in representing national and state interests. I say, no exaggeration, but where we can, there's no need to back down. In that sense, I don't know who it is now, as I commented, I haven't followed, I've been busy for a few hours, but in any case, there can be no recognition to be important and let the country be important and to recognize impeccable, when Kosovo's independence is recognised, and when we withdraw that recognition, then we look at and tear out the hair, whether the country is small and what has contributed to it and how it is ensured from recognition. So, that's important, it's useful and it's, right to tell you, one of the aspects, one of the few aspects of this government's policy, which I have to support and I want to support without but without fences and without delay. Now, the other thing is that it seems to me that the current power in some respects, unfortunately, does make excessive and unnecessary concessions just when it comes to Kosovo's topic, starting with the signing of the Brussels Agreement, was done by this current government, not the government, but this set, through and negotiations on implementation, through the assignment of the international number of Kosovo and Metohija, through the drive of Serbs in northern Kosovo and Metohija to go to both the local and these parliamentary elections of the Republic of Kosovo, etc. So, there are a whole series of things that, in my opinion, have to be set up differently, so that this commendable segment of policy from recognising or preventing recognition, new recognitions of independence and withdrawing existing recognitions in order to bring full expression. Then it was likely to go and choose harder on some other parts of the field. So, tighter, headless, and not suicidal. Then they'll look back, if there's any minutes left, and on this strange precedent we've had. There is nothing illegal about it, but it is indicative, some of my colleagues referred to it, that we, that the Assembly, literally, received the Amendments and Supplements Act yesterday, were determined even by the rapporteur before the National Assembly, Prof. Dr. Slavica Djukić Dejanović, and today the proposal on amendments to the Law on Migration Management is being withdrawn from the procedure. So there's obviously some sneezing and some disagreements, and I'm also joining part of the argumentation and part of the discussion of a colleague from the Duke Hungarian Union that it takes more, as he said, the feeling of reconciliation and the humanitarian aspect of the migrant problem, but also the security and, ultimately, both the political and symbolic aspects and psychological, the whole subject. You don't have to chase the levels. So, one thing is human, human, Christian, human, whatever you want, to go out to meet and help, not to harass those people who come tortured, driven by some trouble, and the other is to do and to make moves or sign agreements that potentially make up some kind of shelter from Serbia, and that European shelter, for migrants. I would also like to see that I know the reasons why the Government has withdrawn this agreement, that is, this draft amending and supplementing the Law on Migration Management, but I hope that when it appears, when this proposal is re-emerged before the MPs, it will take care of this sensitive balance that needs to be taken care of. So, not that anyone, especially from the middle where there is a more pronounced problem of migration and migrants, that if anything says to be immediately stamped and attacked as if some, I don't know, inhumane, cruel, minority fascists because it points to that aspect of the problem. But I'm saying, that's something that was suggested here, so it's withdrawn. It's unusual to do it like that, day after day. I saw Mrs. Slavica Djukic Dejanovic who was here in the Assembly, so she came to attend here, and then she left. Let's get back to our topic. Yeah, something else to praise, but this time along but that's this neutrality, the military neutrality that's affirmed by this document. I support that, but now it's big, but I'm asking you directly, Mr. Minister, don't you think that with this declared military neutrality somehow logically and naturally goes political neutrality? Isn't that like a nail and meat? Isn't that like two screws or a queen and a screw that naturally connects to each other? That's something that, I'd say, goes naturally, I don't see why it gave up, a team before it was announced that it would go that way. Is there a political decision waiting here, whether it is not considered a political moment, whether there is no courage, whether there is no, I say, will, but, simply, there is, I ask you the most sincere and direct, because it seems natural and logical to go along with this other one, along with the military to go political neutrality. Maybe it's not quite clear to the citizens, although I think they understand the essence of what I'm talking about, because I don't think that without this political neutrality, this war won't actually work. That's the point. It will not be able to be implemented unless it is followed by real and similar political neutrality. I may be heretically thinking, but here, I can share it with you as a dilemma and with the citizens, that for various reasons we are not trusted by these partners with or without quotes, or they don't have enough trust in us as partners, no matter what government says they didn't trust even their predecessors, now that they've come to them with a lot of trust and trust them. I don't think as a nation or as a state they trust us too much. They do not honestly believe in our European commitment, without talking about other definitions and are often hypocritical about it, we are likely to agree there. But I think, with the initial grumbling, it would be easier to swallow an honest and strict neutrality both military and political, now I'm speaking to these from the West. So, with some grumbling, we'd swallow that neutrality more easily than the sausages pretending to believe us, that we're going, honestly into these European integrations, so somewhere atlantic integrations are also being smuggled along with the European, and then the Atlantic, of course, are NATO. Then they pretend to be both, we're like we're trying to do it, and they're like they want to, they can't wait to see us inside and see us, and they don't actually believe us. So I think that a strict policy and military and political neutrality might actually be more risky, but actually accepted and certainly for the state and for its vital interests a better solution. So, about that, the announcement and the withdrawal, and the political neutrality, and you and I both know that there has been another subtext going on and on, and somewhere in the air, it's not of strategic importance but it's not quite insignificant, and that's why it gave up the mandatory military deadline. I'm not saying it and I have understanding of the positions of arguments for or against, but it's also announced, I think you've announced, the president and the media close to the authorities announced that it has given up, whether temporarily, whether it is permanent, and what arguments aside from financial advances that are not going on. I know that a good part of the opposition will be more on your side than on my side when it comes to it, but I think a good part of the public here would have more understanding, after all, polling, public opinion research confirms it. Speaking of questions, I have to say this. Is it true and whether your findings are in line with what I'm now going to suggest, that they are not just financial reasons, Mr. Minister, even if they are not prejudicial and primary financial reasons, which are why they gave up, for example, the purchase of S-400 systems, which I agree to mention that the headquarters and assumptions are not enough, but certainly an important element of independent, security and not just security policy? Is the threat to sanctions open, or spoken or by default an implicit or explicit threat to the sanctions of the West, or the United States, the reason why this issue is removed from the agenda? So, not only for S-400, but what about "Pancer", what about this other auxiliary, conditionally said system, which has been announced to be bought safely, and as S-400 will be spoken? Not even the "Pancer" is mentioned now, and S-400 is explicitly said out of the question. Maybe we don't need what I heard and what I could read by experts in this area and how people say we need it. So is it a fear of sanctions, is it blackmail, is it a threat, and not just what you say, well, it's expensive, there's no money for those things? So, has anyone threatened us, is someone blackmailing us, Mr. Minister, and why don't you share it with your citizens, with the public, if that's so? If not, let's deny it. Finally, I want to leave something behind, and for the end of this debate, I would like to ask a question, of course, which follows from this declared military neutrality, that relationships and contacts with all the close, or existing relevant military, and military alliances, alliances, are maintained, but isn't it really obvious and striking asymmetry in these relations and in that contact, starting with military exercises, the number of military exercises with one side, I mean NATO, and Russia on the other hand? So isn't that too asymmetric to be taken seriously by the thesis of military neutrality? If we don't exercise too often or too often, don't we work out too often, even in some pretty long-term operations and simulations of the attack, say Russia or the march to the east, and then that tends to our military neutrality be properly and taken seriously? You will, I suppose, say before that, that before you were at all, or that there was virtually no contact with, or joint exercises with this other side, and I will agree and I will say that that is why we criticized the other side, or the previous side, or the other side, but those predecessors of yours in power. We have criticized them, perhaps justifiably, sometimes it may seem and excessively, or it has seemed excessive to them, but isn't it in practice, when we put away rhetoric, doubtless, hot rhetoric, patriotic, which you know how to place and use, not only you, but also a good part of the representatives of the government, is it not when we put away this rhetoric, whether it remains a fact, and I will end it, Mr. Minister, in order not to lower the level of discussion, and of course, that it can always be easily brought down to some personal and ground level. So, does it not seem to you that when we put away this rhetoric remains the fact that much more has been done in the vicinity and direction, not now Euro-Atlantic, but the Atlantic, or NATO integration of Serbia in recent years, but during the term of office of the previous government, or previous authorities, which you have, and previous colleagues here in the Assembly so eloquently and so strongly criticise how they have led, I don't know, treasonous, such and such a capitulant policy? When we open up that rhetoric, I'm afraid the fact remains that on that plan is actually for the vaccine and mandate, not so much yours, but all of this furniture in power, actually done a lot more, not to mention ratification of SOFA agreements, not to mention IPAP-1, and the announced signing of IPAP-2. One of the colleagues will say, bravo, excellent, and support, perhaps some of the opposition here would, at least quietly, support and say good-bye, but I don't think either of us are among them, because it simply needs to be said honestly and openly, first of all, to ourselves and then to the public and to the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67971	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Alexander Vulin. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67972	In 2006, during an attempt to adopt a similar strategy, the government then tried to introduce the term "Euro-Atlantic Integration". With great effort, great struggles, free looking at political blackmails at that time did not pass. We do not have the term "European Integrations", as you can see, we are acting consistent with military neutrality. And I don't think membership in the NATO Pact, or even bringing NATO closer -- must be linked to the EU. You were able to hear the president of the Makron who spoke of NATO - the pact as the patient in a state of brain death, now that France has its own nuclear potential, which you will admit is one of the strongest armies in Europe, then the big question is whether the EU has a direct link between NATO membership and the pact. As you know, on the other hand, France is quite an opponent of the further enlargement of the EU but does not link it to the NATO pact, nor does it say – we will not receive what they have said in Albania, Northern Macedonia, whom they are already, because they are not members of the NATO Pact. On the contrary, Albania and now Northern Macedonia are, that is, being, right? A member of northern Macedonia is soon NATO member -- Albania's pact for a long time, so they do not receive them in the EU, is not enough for you. It's not enough for you, some other things. I will remind you, of course, that you also have a voluntary neutral state within the EU: Austria, Finland, Switzerland and Sweden and the position of Cyprus, which is not neutral, but is neither a NATO member – the pact. So, what about Turkey... In any case, they're not, that I'm not going in now, that Cyprus is or why Cyprus isn't. So I see no direct link between EU membership and NATO membership – the pact. After all, our attitude is clear. We will not be members of NATO - the pact and the point. I don't know how many times to do it again. It's like listening in 2012 we sold Kosovo. Well, give it to me already. Then how the Shiplars escape from the negotiations, how they will no longer come with us, how they seek... Kurti explicitly says – I don't want the Wolf to negotiate. Well, wait. What won't you do if he sells Kosovo? Because he didn't sell Kosovo, so he won't be there. So, you see, politics is politics, everything can be put on paper and said, but the facts deny it. Our policy is a policy that has led to countries that have withdrawn recognition. Well, that was unimaginable during... What Wolf Jerech? What one confession didn't pull, it was still a chance of that happening? In 2000, in KIM space, we could do almost anything. The system hasn't been established. The best government in the world came, Kosovo a democratic issue. When we take Milosevic off, there's no problem, so that's easy. Well, that dictator when he leaves the Serbs and the Shipari will happily hold hands and live together. He has Ibar to bridge with his love, only to leave the dictator Milosevic. The government came and it was all propagated, the world's favorite, it didn't occur to her to ask her to come back to KIM. In 2000, we could do anything. In 2004, dear voters, dear citizens of Serbia, could do a lot. When he began the pogrom over Serbs in 2004, the whole world made plans, including NATO -- a pact to react to the Serbian state's reaction, because it has been unable for two days... to protect Serbs in KIM, for two days everyone expected Serbia to react, because you have no further justification for what to say. We're down. Well, well, you're down there, but don't do your job. Everyone expected it, nothing happened. In 2012, we couldn't do much more than anything. The tied hands, the signed agreements on the recognition of diploma, on the establishment of an administrative line, on the abolition of our documents in the area of Kosovo and Metohija, on the abolition of the tables that we issue in the area of Kosovo and Metohija, nothing, over. We come to Brussels, they take out the paper, they say – they signed this before you, go ahead, go home. With patient and persistent struggle in the first place, Alexander Vukic, we started changing things, and now Albin Kurti says - only not to see him, only not to see him, and that Serbia stops the aggressive campaign of withdrawing recognition. Is there anything else we need to say? I listen to Gilas who said wisely, as he can be, he said six months ago – Vukic sold Kosovo, and now he says - relations with Albanians are worse than seven years ago. Wait, why? If you gave them Kosovo, how could they be worse relations, then you're in the best of relationships? He's still accusing him of being in bad relationships. Of course he should blame him for being in bad relationships. So the Scorpions cannot see what they were doing, they see that the negotiation process has become too difficult for them and too expensive for them and that they are moving away from independence. As for the frequency of the exercises, the policy of the Ministry of Defence and thus the state of Serbia, because the Ministry of Defence does not only work, I am not in this, nor can it, have a profession that tells us what we need, which says who we would like to learn from, and we have a policy, of course, that says which way we should go. Never, ever, and you can freely ask Minister Shoygu when he comes here at the beginning of next year, I hope, or whenever he comes, but coming next year, ask him when were the better relations between the Russian Federation and Serbia, between the two armies and the two defence ministries. When we had more joint exercises, when we had better common exercises, ever? On the other hand, you don't think I'm going to take responsibility for myself to go beyond the will of my citizens and to the misfortune of my citizens I'm facing a NATO pact? What can I say, stop any cooperation with them, stop practicing with them, stop consulting them? Of course not. Why would I do that? That's the essence of military neutrality. Sometimes things are easier for us, sometimes things are harder for us, but you work for your people and of course you won't cause any conflict with anyone. You're looking to get past it. It's a tough time. The big ones are fighting over us, and we've decided to be military neutral and that their quarrels aren't ours. We say, fight you gentlemen, you have no problem with us, we're not your enemies, we're not looking for anything, let's keep you alive and healthy, but keep your quarrels away from us. You can't expect a Serb soldier to die for you. We've been killed enough, and we've seen how we've been killed so much. We see Allies from World War II what they did to us. No need, don't be any better than we are, and we're the best we can be. Partnership for peace, optimal level of co-operation and everyone admits it. That's what the NATO Pact admits. They know it's like that and it's President Vukic's firm policy and it won't change. On the other hand, the Russian Federation doesn't ask us to become members of the ODKB, knows we won't, and that's a firm policy of military neutrality. We have never, dear Serbian citizens, had more exercises with the Russian Federation, but we also make sure that it is the same or approximate number, so that it does not change. You don't have to. Who am I to put my personal affinities in front of the Serbian state and tomorrow the citizens of Serbia tell me – so who are you arguing with on my behalf? I'm not fighting with anyone. I don't have a fight with anyone. I want the best relationship with everyone. We used to listen to sermons all the time - how long can you be neutral? As long as we want. While President Vukic is Serbian President, we will be militaryly neutral. So we will be. Don't doubt it at all. It's hard. It's not easy. Any great force would like to put its flag on that geopolitical map, that's another small country, what's wrong. When it comes to Montenegro, you will admit that this military potential, I respect it very much, of course, even the US Secretary of State said that Montenegro is a pillar of stability and a pillar of security in the Balkans, thanks to its powerful military potential. I have to respect that potential and of course there's no way to underestimate their two officers who sent them to KFOR, though, one, since the other couldn't, I don't know what happened, but that's it. So they look forward to this little country, so they don't look forward to Serbia. But Serbia's stance, the Serb stance, is to ask its politicians to remove us from the world's conflicts from their political leadership. We don't have an inch of territorial pretentiousness to anyone. We're not asking anyone. We just want to be on our own, and we want to be free, free, to decide everything ourselves, about the Army, about the weapons, and that brings me to the last thing I want to say to you -- nowhere in the world you will not hear the Secretary of Defense give you an explicit answer to what you asked. Don't expect that from me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67973	Thank you. Would you like a comment, a replica? The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67974	I'm really not gonna have this debate. I'm grateful for this last one, I'd say the most honest answer that was actually without an answer, but I'd say more eloquently and honestly than most of the others that are otherwise heard not only here today, but often what we can hear from the government's representatives. And he was content, no matter what he was gone. That would be my answer to the question of whether there is a threat or blackmail, or whether it is a warning that it is not going into the purchase of the S400 system and that it is not financial reasons, but political pressure or warning is why it was removed from the agenda, and this story about the vest system, too, has been silenced. I respect that, I say, Mr. Minister. What you skipped, however, and no one would shoot you for it, nor would you put the state in a bad position, is the answer to the question of political and military neutrality. Of course it is true that there are non-EU NATO members, there are EU members who are not NATO members, but it is also true that since 2000 no country has joined the EU without becoming a NATO member. You can do it the other way around. He can join NATO without joining the EU. And it's a more or less scenario that is predicted for this region and that someone designed for this region. They have received Albania, will receive a speedy procedure in Northern Macedonia, Montenegro has been accepted. This does not mean they will see Brussels, or membership in the EU. That's what you and I and God know that it's not going to be or anything or God's asking you when. So, of course it's not connected in one direction, but in the other it is. In that sense, you cannot promise Serbian citizens EU membership, not to say that the assumption of this is necessary, not enough, for these after 2000, for these countries of eastern, southern and Southeastern Europe, the condition and supposition were, unfortunately, that. So that's the answer you skipped, and that's what you honestly kept quiet, this one for pressure. For Kosovo, and to conclude only by that, I have honestly said and without any but to respect and appreciate the efforts made on the recognition policy, but I think that some concessions have been made there in early 2012, 2013 and 2014. And you had, after all, a reserve of your own time, so you gave up on them when it came to signing the Brussels Agreement. At the beginning of her term, each government gave something, and then when it started to stop, if they started talking, wait, wait, wait, we gave it all to you, then after the replacement, they bowed them down and brought some more obedient ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67975	Thank you. The word has a minister named Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67976	Just to tell you that Alexander Wolfich is not spoken in language of threats and blackmail. Had it not been so, you would have the Shiptars who rejoiced to negotiate with her, that they would negotiate with her, but would not, they will not. They're withdrawing from the Brussels Agreement. They're withdrawing their signature. Hashim Thaci, a liar, a man who has no word, no anger, comes out and says, "I have signed it, but I will not carry it out, circumstances have changed." So, they lie, if it were good for them, what wouldn't they do? Oh, they would, as you know. What's it got that the Shiptari wouldn't do for their independence and for their statehood? There's nothing they wouldn't do. When it comes to my answer, what I was thinking, arms procurement is not talked about publicly, whatever we buy or don't buy. I'm just going to give you one little example. The only country in Europe that has not imposed sanctions on the Russian Federation is Serbia, and BiH, because it has a Serbian presidency member, so it cannot, and as you know, Komsic, Izetbegovic, both Bosniak representatives, would have introduced it long ago. Also the only country in Europe that bought Russian weapons, new Russian weapons, we're talking about helicopters, we're talking about a number of other systems, is Serbia, and don't make me... I'll remind you of one thing, remember how much trouble we had to transfer the donated "BR demos" to Serbia? What are you asking me to draw for you? What are you asking me to tell you where he's going and what he's going to do? What are you asking me to do tomorrow to those who will block me or at least be able to blackmail me, say it won't work if it or this? That's not what you're talking about. Mr. Colonel was here talking about it. That's not what you're talking about, and let me tell you that the language of the threat to Wolfie doesn't talk to you. You can't come and tell him - don't buy. That's what they told him - impose sanctions. Well, why didn't he impose sanctions? The only one who hasn't imposed sanctions. I keep listening to some suspicions - you will enter the NATO Pact. Okay, how many more years do we need to get into the NATO Pact? You're saying that if the obedient government comes, then they collapse, and we're not the obedient government, so we could have entered the NATO Pact by now. We don't want to enter the NATO Pact. We won't. Give me one reason why we won't enter the NATO Pact. We don't want to enter the NATO Pact. We won't. Everyone has an explanation from an economic, military one. I'll tell you mine, personally, human, and that we ignore bombing now, which every one of us feels and can't forget. Once again, I'd like all the MP clubs to visit the Department of Defense's 78 exhibit. You lose some time, go, look, it won't be hard for you. Here's why I'm telling you. Because if you are a member of any pact, whatever the pact is, you are in danger of one day being ordered to do to others what they did to our little free people. That's not what we're gonna do. That's my reason. Because I can't accept that anywhere there's a power center sitting and saying, send the Serb army to that free little people to do to them what we do to the Serbs. It can't. That's my reason. There's certainly others and better, but that's my reason. So we won't. While Vucic is the president of Serbia and the Supreme Command of the Army, while I am the defence minister, while this ruling majority is in parliament, we will not enter NATO a pact, we will be militaryly neutral and we will not argue with the NATO Pact, we will not cause anything, not even give the false cause as Racak is. We won't.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67977	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Vukadinović has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67978	I said I wouldn't and I won't really use two minutes. Don't convince me, Mr. Minister, that there's no need to enter the NATO Pact, and I also think I'm up against it. I just think that the position of this government is slightly ambivalent, not just because of a position that is, of course, understandable, a small country in an awkward, hostile environment. In your ruling majority, the coalition has those who are very keen to enter the NATO Pact, and we know that you, me, and God. There is justice working on this side where I sit, which is empty, but it's not popular, and that's why you won't come in, sir, because you know that Serbian citizens don't want to, and that's why it's kind of being pushed under the carpet. I just want it to affirm itself and say it loud and clear. As far as Kosovo is concerned, therefore, you did not understand or understand me, I say that every government at first makes some unfortunate concessions. Those predecessors did it with Eulex, which I judge and condemn, and you did it with the Brussels Agreement. After that, they get tired, and then they feel like they didn't get in return. The fact that you set me up as an example, as proof that this patriotic and smart government has worked well, the Brussels Agreement and the Albanians are not implementing it, so unfortunately, Mr. Minister, it's just a problem for me. You have fulfilled everything regarding the Serbian side, the Serbian side's obligations, and they have failed to fulfil any obligation regarding themselves. Isn't that, to say the least, naivety, if not something else? Answer and I promise I won't ask for another word. Isn't that naive? Is it not unprofessional for you to fulfill all things, and then you say, "Now be kind and fulfill your obligations?" Who talks like that?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67979	Thank you. The word has a minister named Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67980	I've been listening here since 2012, to say that we're going to leave the Serbs, that we're going to stop funding them. You have MPs here, I don't know if they're from Kosovo and Metohija. I listened to how we would stop funding life in Kosovo and Metohija. Anyone who's been in Kosovo and Metohija one day knows that without the government of the Republic of Serbia there are no Serbs in Kosovo, no, they won't survive. Try to find me a Serb who's in a high position in a private company owned by Shiptar. Maybe if he's working with Serbia, so he needs some mask, otherwise he won't, it won't happen. All the money, all the life coming from there. I have listened since 2012 that it was interrupted, as it was cut, as it is not there, that no pay will arrive, that they will not be able to drive their cars, that they will not be able to vote in Serbian elections. I heard it all. It is not, and you know it is not, because if it were different, the Serbs would not be in Kosovo and Metohija. The fact is that the EU, not Shipari, is a guarantor of the Brussels Agreement. It's not a question for the Shiptars now. We know they're liars. What do you think we're convinced before Thaci that this terrorist and the terrorists who inherited, what, they want good Serbia? They don't want to. You must, when leading a serious and responsible policy, believe that you accept the word of the EU, that great, powerful one. What I'm saying is a question for the EU, not for the Cypriots, I know they have no anger, it's all a lie, it's for the EU. It's a long fight that won't stop now or tomorrow. We will have long, long to fight and, as you can see, our positions in the space of Kosovo and Metohija are stronger, stronger than they were. We, by the way, have, in terms of the good work of the international community, of course, not for us, it is unacceptable for us, illegally funded life in Kosovo and Metohija. Nobody's saying that now. Now everyone admits that Serbia has the right to do so and Serbia does so. Just imagine a day, one month to cut ties between Serbia, Serbs and people in Kosovo and Metohija, Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, would not remain a man, would have nothing to live on. It's not a thing of patriotism now. It's just that you can't blame me for it. We had a policy that pretended it didn't exist there, that nothing would happen. Alexander Vukic has done something that is not popular, but does something that is not popular all the time. Every time he's gone, when he sits with those Shiptars, he makes everyone angry. He gets angry first, he gets angry at himself, but he does it for Serbia. That's how it has to be. What, that he pretends he doesn't exist and says, "Well, you don't exist?" Well, there are. I took part in the Brussels negotiations and one of the hardest things in my life I've ever experienced is that I had to shake hands with some of them, which I sat down with, and mostly I didn't shake hands with, in the same room. Sit down with the man you know participated in the murder of your people. What are you gonna do? Kill him? What are you gonna do? Tell me, what do you do? So that you may pretend that there is no such thing, that you may pretend that there is no such thing, and that there is no such thing as to pretend that there is no such thing, and that the justice of the heavens will come to him, or that you may fight as you know and know. In the end, you come to these saying: we will no longer negotiate with you, there is nothing with you, you should not be negotiated, because they cannot get what they want. They can't get it with Serbia like this. I'm going back to the NATO Pact again. It's not whether it's popular or not popular. That's our attitude. You know, these people wouldn't be sitting in parliament in the absolute majority if Serbian citizens hadn't voted for them, not to share their ideas. They're not some kind of con man who gives other people's programs. They gave their program, signed their program. The programme, among other things, says we're not going to the NATO Pact. Put it on, put it on every other party, so if that's enough, let it bring them to power. Great, I'm looking forward to it, but something tells me that many parties, especially those who boycott this Assembly, cannot write that they are not for the NATO Pact. Tell them, not us. We said we weren't for the NATO Pact. Dot. Is that popular? It doesn't matter if it's popular. That's what the Serbs want. What is the job of these people instead of saying politics? Sometimes we do things that are approved by the vast majority, sometimes difficult, but we never do against our people. This is not the Mil Djukanovic Assembly that says -- I know that over 80% of Montenegrin citizens are against recognition of Kosovo and Metohija, but I know better than they do. We never do that. President Vukic said - I will fight until the end and whatever I agree, if I ever agree with the Shiptars, we will go to a referendum to ask the Serbs what they think of it, so let them say the last word. It is up to me as a politician to fight, even with unpopular things, but Serbs will say the last word, and not like Milo and these -- I know better, what a referendum, what a referendum, it's just gonna clean up. So these people are here because they share their beliefs with their people and don't watch whether it's popular or not, but it's their ideas and that's why they got into politics. Because in politics their ideas recognize their people. They write a pre-election programme, and it says in the pre-election programme -- we don't want a NATO pact, the people vote. Write it down, too. It's a matter of trust, that's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67981	Thank you, Minister Vulin. Milimir Vujadinovic answered the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67982	Thank you. We should have 1,024 tanks under the Dayton Agreement, but that's a burden for our country. I hope we only have about 500 tanks in a year. In the near future, we will destroy with financial assistance from abroad a significant amount of light weapons such as mines, firearms or portable simple air systems. Dear colleagues, distinguished ministers, respected officers of the Serbian Army must be wondering what it is that the Serbian MP has just said. But that's not what an authorised representative of the SNS parliamentary group says today. It is just a quote of what Serbian Defence Minister said at an international conference at Hotel Hayat on 11 April 2005. To remember better, I'm going to read the most important part to you one more time. He says so - in the near future we will destroy with financial assistance from abroad a considerable amount of light weapons such as mines, firearms or portable anti-aircraft systems. That's what he says, believe it or not, the Secretary of Defense. The defence minister is without the same political conglomerate today called the Alliance for Serbia. Hard and painfully, I know today and at all talk about destroying Serbia's army during that period, in order to somehow make it more picturesque, I have brought in a few photographs that show that it seemed to be cutting and preparing for the drowning of Serbian weapons, the same weapons that our soldiers defended Serbia with when it was most difficult. I know it's been a difficult time for these honorable people in uniform and it really wasn't easy to watch all that. But trust me, maybe that's not the worst thing that could have happened. What's worse than all that is selfless work on destroying the morals and pride of a Serb soldier, as well as working to break down faith in the Serbian army when it comes to Serbian citizens. That's what's most difficult about destroying the Serb army. Somehow, these last days and the last events, and they are related to the 63rd Parachure and 72nd of Panchev, have brought us back to remember how it began, first with the bombing, and later with the internal collapse of the Army, demoralization, chicanisation and persecution, the arrest of officers, but also with the destruction of the most famous and most significant Serb units, or the Serbian Army units. So this famous 63rd parachute from Nis and the 72nd special from Pancheva found themselves hit. Unfortunately, they weren't the only ones. They're kind of the most picturesque imagery, but you'd be lucky if they were the only ones. This is actually what was most difficult in the military, the most difficult that the Serbian Army had survived in the previous period. You might be wondering, what does this have to do with today? Believe me, it's very simple. For example, a man who ordered a direct task when it comes to the destruction of that 63rd parachute and 72nd special today is the vice-president of Jeremic's party again in this Serbian Council, which I was talking about today. Is that an accident? There's nothing by chance. In the same Alliance, Boris Tadic, one of the most likely military ministers when it comes to the Serbian Army, was a man who usually left the country or was at sea when it was most difficult in Serbia. In the Alliance, he was also violent from that era, which today became the ruler of the Alliance for Serbia, which is Dragan Gilas. But it's not all that black. Fortunately, here we now see that slowly this period remains behind us and there is a lot of evidence for such a claim. I'll be back in 63rd and 72nd Special. The execution of the orders of the commander-in-chief, the president of the state of Alexander Vukic and your dedicated work have restored the pride of the 63rd and 72nd brigades. As you said yourself, the ministers are not at the heroic brigade to become smaller, to forget and disappear, but to stand up and strengthen and show that they are worthy of those who were before them. We Members of the SNS congratulate you. You have full support and you and the commander-in-chief, the President of the Republic. The evidence is much more, evidence of the rise of the Serbian army, and when it comes to weapons renewal, the purchase of new planes, helicopters, armored ones. I see that's a special smile for you, Minister, on your face, just like me. When it comes to the purchase of equipment for the Serbian military and the improvement of their material status, the figures that are expressed through the membership budget are very much in favour. for the Department of Defense. In 2012 comparisons, there were some 53 billion dinars for the Ministry of Defence. This year it's 95 billion. Almost twice as much. Evidence of the rise of the Serbian defence system is also a dedicated industry that is not by chance, believe me, on impact these days. Exports of the dedicated industry from the period when the minister spoke in 2005 about the destruction of the weapons were about 500m euros. Exports in 2018 were three times higher, slightly more than a billion and 400m euros. The evidence for this is certainly, the respected ministers, the respected officers of the Serbian Army, and these laws and strategic documents that are before us today. The evidence of the rise of the Serbian army is also the Law on the Army that is before us today. The law certainly seeks to improve the status of the soldiers themselves, primarily through giving them the opportunity to work abroad, to work in some state bodies or some other legal entities, by giving us the opportunity to join officers and officers in Serbia's military through raising the age limit to 40 or 45 years, respectively, by giving them the opportunity to through special military training i.e. Adequate military weapons training becomes part of Serbia's army. Now there won't be a condition just a served military term. It was also taken into account for the safety of citizens because it was clearly defined when a soldier of the Serbian Army could stop the service, i.e. at a time of war or emergency, a soldier cannot, except in special cases, stop the service, which gives a certain amount of security to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Minister, I have talked to your associates a little bit that if there are opportunities, i.e. in some sublegal acts, it would be good to consider the possibility that under military training with weapons for some of our citizens in the environment to find an opportunity for all those who have our citizenship and have completed training in some countries in the environment, here I am primarily referring to the Republic of Serbia and Montenegro and Macedonia, to be one of the conditions that will meet, to be what will meet the conditions that are in the law today. As for the National Security Strategy and the Defence Strategy, we SNS MPs are certainly on the stand that these are historical documents, that this is a historic moment when it is all defensive, but if you want a political system in the Republic of Serbia. For the first time in one place, we have clearly defined and collected national interests of Serbia and they are clearly without thinking defined. In addition to all those who are undoubtedly important, in terms of economic development, it concerns the preservation of the environment, European integration, the preservation of peace and stability in the region, there are probably two who are most important in Serbia, which is the preservation of sovereignty, independence as one and the other who is mentioned for the first time in this Parliament, and which for the first time in general the Serbian Parliament is discussing, which is the preservation of our people in the region, and above all the survival of Republika Srpska in accordance with the Dayton Peace Agreement. So we think it's an important historic moment when it comes to these documents. As far as the Strategy for the Defence of the Republic of Serbia is concerned, it certainly gathers all the defence interests of the Republic of Serbia in one place, but it is not just a mere technical document concerning the defence of a country, it is an important political document. He also clearly tracks Serbia's policy in some future period in addition to the defence part. For the first time since the 2007 Resolution, adopted in this respected home, one such document, an official document, clearly defines the military neutrality of the Republic of Serbia. Never again will evil languages like Vukadinovic, Obradovic, Gilas and any of them be able to say that anyone has the intention of introducing Serbia into the NATO Pact, any other military alliance, but it certainly leaves the possibility of co-operation and ultimately potential co-operation with all of them, of which the Serbian Army, or the entire defence system, is benefiting and with which this co-operation will benefit our country. As far as these two decisions are concerned, that is, the Decision to hire members of the Serbian Army in peacekeeping missions and the Agreement with the Czech Government. Let me tell you, it's from our point of view and as far as we're concerned, only one continuation of the return of Serbia's international reputation and its defence system in the world. Certainly, the most responsible President of the Republic, who, starting in 2014, has succeeded in one serious way to restore the reputation of the Republic to Serbia, but, if you will, and to the defence system of which you are an integral part. Ministers, you, the ministry you run, the commander-in-chief of Serbia's state will surely remain remembered as the man who returned Serbia's army and its defence system out of certain destruction. Starting with the equipment of the army, the return of morality and the reputation of the army in the people, but also in the end with these documents that I have been honored to speak of today in this respected home, which will definitely remain part of Serbia's defence system history. Since you are people who have done this job too early and are still doing it, be assured that you will have the support of us MPs of the Serbian Progressive Party and when it comes to politics and all important decisions, but also when it comes to these legislative proposals and these strategic documents that are under discussion today in this respected home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67983	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mr. Alexander Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67984	I thank you, Your Honor. You know, if you, honourable MPs, support amendments and additions to the Law on the Serbian Army, I want you to know that by your vote you will allow over 300 soldiers to be translated into first sub-office acts by contract. This means that you will provide security and a future for more than 300 young people who may have thought about leaving. Because when you become a senior officer, except you're constantly employed, you get the possibility of residential lending, you get increased housing costs, you're guaranteed the future. Over that, you will fight, watch how you progress, finish schools, but this way we will keep you safe. Now, what a sin it was that it hadn't been done before, I'm going to give you an example. Right in the special brigades you're talking about, both 72 and 63 will be promoted somewhere around 192 and 194 guys. Look, these are guys with absolutely the highest possible psychophysical characteristics, and they couldn't, because there's no room, you can't school all of them, they couldn't become senior officers. And it's normal for them to start thinking, so, wait, I'm 25, I'm 26, I can do anything I want, I can go wherever I want, which I'd stay in the Army, and he loves the army, he loves his unit, he wants to stay in it. If you support them, the honourable MPs, this law, will allow us to keep them, to preserve them forever and not only them, not only special brigades, but also in other species and in other generations, where we think it is necessary to help them, in this way preserve them, because they deserve it, that's what their commanders will say. I'll give you an example. We have 35 officers, who are, it doesn't look like a large number, but every injustice is great, every man is a great injustice when there is injustice. So we have 35 officers who were over 35, 36 years old, they were in wars, they proved themselves absolutely and the system simply didn't recognize them. They kept waiting for the day when they'd get old and they couldn't stay in their army anymore, when we'd let them out on the street, and they didn't deserve it. They just didn't deserve it. But there was a reduction in the army, a reduction in numbers, for them never places. Now there's room. Now, no matter how old they are, we will receive them into our army and they will be in our army until the end. I'll give you another example. It's such a strange thinking, it's hard to understand, it's hard to understand, I'll try to bring it closer to you, I'm sorry to take a lot of time. You had officers who went through all the wars, made progress through our education system, progressed through the work, through the fighting, the elders promoted them and then came this time after 2000, we gave him a contract, but we took it back, although for ten years he was in that sub-office, because we say – you don't have a leader's course. What kind of leadership course, past wars? You don't have a leader's course. The leader's course is something we got from the side, so we make something, and he says, "There's no leader's course, and you take such a man back, punish him, take away his salary, take away his rank, put it down, punish him." Now we'll be able to give it back to him, reward him, tell him – thank you for being with your army, for not leaving us, thank you for staying here until the end. We have even such cases for officers who, because of such rules, had officers who had completed several schools at the time, so they were lieutenants, lieutenants, they were able to advance about to the captain of the first class, they were at war in the act of lieutenants and lieutenants, and then we brought them down to the level of the Ensigns because we no longer recognise military school, the Higher Military School, and we admit or admit it, we no longer do, every civilian college whether you were asked by the military to finish it or not. These things change. Now, if you support us, honourable MPs, if you give your votes and your trust to this proposal that is before you, we will correct the injustice against these people. That only 35 are worth it, but it's not just 35, as you can see in these numbers, you don't remember so many advances being made in our army, as you can't remember that military health has been admitted into a permanent employment relationship of over 400 people. You can't remember that, it wasn't. But, well, the army's developing, the army's getting stronger. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67985	Thank you. The People's Messenger Miladin Shevarlic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67986	Thank you very much. First of all, I want to say and express my gratitude to all the countries that have withdrawn recognition of so-called. The independent republic of Kosovo, as well as those who have contributed to Serbia and Serbia's leadership. Secondly, by doing master's work 40 and over years ago, I spent days and days in the archives in Železnik, about 20 meters below the surface of the country. That's when I learned something I didn't learn in college, that right after the release in Kosovo and Metohija, two contradictory regulations were passed. One was a regulation by the resorient minister for agrarian reform, to prohibit the return to Kosovo of Serbs and Montenegrins to their properties, which they received as agrarian stakeholders in the process of agrarian reform of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia. The second regulation was, the resolute interior or police minister, however you will, who threatened to arrest and banish agrarian stakeholders who came to settle their households and land. Thus, an army of Albanian migrants who settled parts of Kosovo and Metohija during the occupation remained on the territory of Kosovo and Metohija. Are we in a similar situation today? I don't know if it was in the previous session, but in this meeting, the National Assembly did not decide to repeal a decision on self-proclaiming independence of the so-called Republic of Kosovo? If it is, please say it. I don't know, maybe it was in an earlier period, in a past term brought in. Is such a political decision to be made today and why it is not made? The second question is very important - what about the return of 250,000 expelled Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija? Serbia today is economically strong and can help. He won't be back for sure for 250,000, but he'd probably come back for one piece. The third question - if the Brussels Agreement does not respect the other signatories, why does the National Assembly not make a decision to repeal the Brussels Agreement and thus remain in force only in Resolution 1244? Also, as a stent for the then SSNO, I worked on a meat reserve project in live cattle for the needs of JNA. No matter what strategy you formulate, and I am a 15-year-old state of teaching at the Military Academy, if there is no population on that territory empty, that territory will be difficult to maintain. The only way to keep the population there is to stimulate it to be related to livestock production, because only livestock production, unlike military and fruit vineyards, requires a day and night presence on land. Think about it. Also, what about the return of thousands of border guards and police officers in Kosovo and Metohija? Finally, one more question. This year, I had the opportunity to lead a group of 36 Serbian children into four countries to tour Orthodox monasteries, including a student from the Faculty of Sociology from Kosovo and Metohija. She received a passport here in Belgrade, which was written by the co-ordination administration of the Republic of Serbia. The passport, though with Serbia's coat of arms, was nevertheless required by it, unlike all of us and other children, to request a special Schengen visa. We've barely been able to fix it and include it in the group. Why is the passport of the Republic of Serbia not recognised for Serbs and other nationalities living in Kosovo and Metohija? Why not introduce reciprocity towards countries that do not recognise the passports of the Republic of Serbia?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67987	You're bringing the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67988	Thank you. Is there any answer you can get, Mr. Minister?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67989	The word has the People's MP Ana Karadzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67990	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister Vulin with his associates, gentlemen officers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Serbia is a word that causes pride, faith and hope and represents security, stability and the future. It's the land where we were born for centuries back, where we admire and do not give in all our borders. The laws ahead of us and the National Security Strategy for Defence Serbia demonstrates seriousness, shows determination, patriotism, but above all great strength to preserve its security, national integrity, as well as its people beyond Serbia's borders, but above all in Republika Srpska. When I say that the army is a symbol of determination, I am talking about the willingness and courage of the government and the Ministry of Defence to lead a policy of military neutrality, I am talking about the effort and resources invested in order for the army to be modernised, equipped, and I am talking about an army that cares about people, as well as a clear view of the unilaterally declared independence of the false state of Kosovo, which Serbia will never recognise. The bill before us today is one only in a series of ways that you, ministers, have continued the recovery policy that President Vukic started for the three years at the head of the ministry. Just remember what the army looked like by 2012. She was systematically destroyed, she was naked, and everything under the pretext that we were at peace and we didn't need a war. When they say peace, it is certain they have forgotten that NATO bombing is no humanitarian action, but aggression against the Serb people. They today have a strong army of thorns in their eyes. That's why the attacks are getting stronger. What's certainly clear to all of us is that no imaginary affair that they've staged can diminish your result and cannot diminish the credibility that the military has acquired in recent years. Clearly, in their false affairs they cannot cover their affairs, it is clear to all and why they did so and by whose orders. Please, Minister, seriously consider returning the military courts that the Democratic Party has abolished for the arrest of General Perisic. But what is important is that they are the past that will no longer be repeated, it is important that today we can really say with pride that we possess the most modern weapons, that we train daily both in Serbia and abroad. That's exactly what the precondition for peace is. We can say that we are truly a military neutral country and that we are not responding to anyone. What's most important to us from the Socialist Movement is that all of this is all about caring for people. With this in mind, I must point out that the Republic of Serbia's budget for the Ministry of Defence has increased by more than 35% in recent years and that the salaries increase almost every year. The national security strategy for the first time is clearly and unequivocally formulated national interests, and this allows our choice to be not in NATO, so that a strong army like this will say – never again will the "Storm", or "Blash", or "Martian Pogrom" or NATO aggression. Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67991	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Djordje Kosanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67992	Thank you. Dear Ministers, honourable officers, chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are facing today a joint principled single search of a set of laws relating to the Serbian Army and I will immediately say that the Single Serbia MP group in the voting day will support all proposals of the law in this united debate. Minister, at the very beginning, I would like to say that the history of the Serbian army is the history of defence, the history of defence policy, that the Serb soldier has been respected and respected throughout the centuries in the world and by his opponents. Today Serbia is a military neutral state. We want to be free to cooperate with everyone, to choose our own future, but not to depend on anyone. That's why we care about our safety. Serbia has made a serious step forward last year as far as its army is concerned. Serious funds have been invested in modernising Serbia's military. I'll remind you once more, buying "mig 29" helicopters. But what's a significant thing, a serious step forward as far as our military industry is concerned. I'll remind myself of the Lazar vehicle, then the Milos, but also the infantry weapons. Minister, what I am particularly interested in, and you will agree with me, it seems to me that we will soon have a modernization of the army as to a powerful PSC system. I'll just say that we're going to supplement what we've had for years, and that's "Cub" and "Neva". I'm a little tied up with "Cub," but I'm looking forward to having this powerful PVO system soon. With that in mind, I must say, a while ago, the exercise that was in the vicinity of Belgrade with Russia, it seems to me to be the most modern missile system in the world of "S-400" and it seems to me that, Minister, this is the first time this rocket system has participated in a military exercise outside Russia. So it shows its power, but it also shows the system "Pancer S". This exercise on the other hand has drawn great attention, and this should be said not only to our public, but also to the public internationally, but to what we clearly need to say, that Serbia is three times more involved in exercises with NATO and partner countries than with Russia. Also often there is a public issue – NATO policy, yes or no? I'll remind you here that NATO bombed us 20 years ago, caused us serious casualties and serious damage. The alleged cause of Serbia's bombing was a false, fictitious Racak case. That Racak was pure fiction and lies, a huge lie, also tells the fact that no one in The Hague tribunal was convicted of this unseen lie and fiction, not even in any indictment. In Račka, ministers, you will agree with me, eliminated terrorists, and because of these terrorists, Serbia has been bombed. 2,500 people were killed in the bombing, including 79 children, wounded 12,500 people, including 6,000 civilians and as many as 2,700 children. After that, 250,000 Serbs were expelled from Kosovo and Metohija's centuries-old hearths. The consequences of the bombing are still felt in Serbia today. Because of the time I have, just briefly to say, returning to the very proposals of the law from this united debate, first of all, when we talk about the proposal for a law on the Serbian Army, it is necessary to say that this law removes legal gaps and inaccuracies that have led to this law not working in many areas, it was adopted in 2018. Conditions are being created to ensure a more favourable position of professional soldiers, officers and officers who are in service for a certain period of time. You just said it was, I think, 300 such people, it's a big deal for the Army of Serbia, and I'm sure we'll bring this law without a problem. The law also provides for the possibility of predictable career advancement for professional soldiers and officers. It also introduces the rank of first class captain and lieutenant of the battleship. When it comes to the proposal for a decision to use the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations, it should be said that Serbia shows that it is an active factor in preserving world peace and stability, that our soldiers are fully trained to participate in these peace operations, in many operations, not to spread, only our blue helmets are rewarded. When it comes to the proposal for a national security strategy of the Republic of Serbia, the basic security threat facing the Republic of Serbia is recognised, it is a unilateral self-proclaimed declaration of the false state of Kosovo. With this in mind, I would like to commend Minister Dacic's work on having as many as 17 states withdraw the recognition of the false state of Kosovo. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia guarantees the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia, and explicitly determines that the AP of Kosovo and Metohija is an integral part of the Republic of Serbia. No longer, because of the time I have, to say just one more thing, I will only say that the JS parliamentary group will support all the draft laws of this united debate in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67993	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Hadji Milorad Stosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67994	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished ministers with associates, distinguished officers and gentlemen generals, ladies and gentlemen folk MPs and respected citizens of Serbia, today we are talking about a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the Army of the Republic of Serbia, a law governing conditions to ensure a more favourable position of professional members of the Serbian Army, especially professional soldiers, as well as officers and officers who are in service for a certain time. Thus, security is provided both for the individual members of the army and for the family of the same military, which has not been quite so in the past. In a united debate, I will talk about the proposal for a defence strategy of the Republic of Serbia, because it is a defence function of the state which provides protection and defence interests that are put behind the highest values and general needs of citizens. We will also talk about the proposal for a national security strategy for Serbia as the highest strategic document, whose implementation protects the national values and interests of the Republic of Serbia against challenges, risks and threats in all areas of social life, as well as concerns about the Serb people outside the borders of the Republic of Serbia. We are witnessing that the rights of this part of our people in countries outside the Republic of Serbia are now at great risk. The assembly will also discuss a proposal for a decision on the use of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations outside the borders of the Republic of Serbia. All these proposals and laws and strategies are well spoken of, and I will briefly repeat some things and point to some concrete things that improve previous documents and laws and strategies. The decision is in line with the Law on the use of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in the multinational operations of the Serbian Army. Using Serbia's military and other defence forces in multinational operations, the Republic of Serbia is placed in the ranks of countries actively participating in the establishment and preservation of peace and stability in the world. This also makes a significant contribution to building an equal partnership relationship with the UN member states and the EU. Mr Minister, you have just asked whether MPs will support these laws and these strategies, I think without a doubt that the vast majority of MPs will support both laws and strategies and decisions, and the PUPS parliamentary group will vote on these amendments to the law, strategies and decisions. The reasons for the adoption of this law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Serbian Army stems from the need to further regulate the security system, as well as from the need to align existing solutions with the experience in the practical application of the law adopted in 2018, the removal of observed legal gaps and inaccuracies in certain solutions that create misunderstandings in the application of the provisions of this law. The proposed changes and additions create conditions to ensure the more favourable position of professional members of the Serbian Army, especially the officers who are in service for a certain time, as well as the introduction of certain acts that existed in the earlier period, and all to better manage and ensure the effective functioning of the Serbian Army with the possibility of foreseeable career leadership of professional military personnel. Article 1 The bill proposes the addition of Article 22 by introducing first-class sergeants and first-class captains, i.e. lieutenants of a battleship, in order to conduct quality personnel through the service of the Serbian Army, thus avoiding individual elders from spending a very long period of time in one act, which was also a negative motivational factor for officers, i.e. second-in-commands when the longer periods are in one act. Also, it provides a more favourable position for professional soldiers, officers and officers at Serbia's military service for a certain period of time by raising the age limit for entry into the professional military service, and the objective of amending and supplementing Serbia's military not to disown professional soldiers, but to keep them in service and to allow them legal and existential security. In your previous report, you yourself spoke about this particular amendment to this part of the law and the possibility that 350 officers can be produced in the rank of officers. Article 2 The draft law proposes amendments in Article 39(1), point (7) and (9). Point 7 increases the age limit for entry into the professional military service, extending the circle of persons who can be admitted to the professional military service. So far, the border has affected the safety of both the individual members of the Army and the family of his further status and the provision of the most basic conditions of family life. So far, the laws of Articles 39 and 41 have been inconsistencies. Article 39(1), paragraph 7, which regulated the reception of a person as an officer until the age of 45 and on the other hand, the production of a sub-office officer in an officer's act was limited to 43 years. The current decision and the current solution make the border equal to 45 years and enables the same treatment for seniors who have completed higher education so that they can compete and become officers in line with the existence of civil sector officers. The fact itself will allow for a number of officers who will move to the rank of officers, and thus, by their great experience, to pass on further work to the service. Articles 5 and 6 also improved members 42 and 43. Data are better solutions in the work of admissions to a professional military service, which does not disown professional soldiers, but is the idea of staying and allowing them legal and existential security, i.e. in the event of a promotion to a higher rank in the professional military service for an indefinite amount of time and time spent in the rank and status of a professional military person for a period of time. So far, solutions have negatively affected the status and position of members of the Serbian Army as security conditions are created for both the individual and his family. This law also defines the obligations of a member of the Serbian Army in multinational operations in addition to the benefits of individual members of the Serbian Army, with the required obligation to remain in the Serbian Army at least three times in the multinational operation to which it is directed. It is also foreseen that in the event of non-execution, members of the Serbian Army are required to pay the contract penalty provided for by the participation contract in multinational operations. For the Serbian Army units, it is important and necessary for participants in multinational operations to be detained in a professional military service in order to transfer experience and gain knowledge to professional military personnel who will be referred to multinational operations in a future period. These experiences are very important for the people who continue this procedure of sending them to peace missions. The question arises whether the proposed material solution relating to the triple remainder obligation after returning from multinational operations will affect the reduction of the number of persons who are ready to undergo appropriate training for multinational operations. The answer, of course, will not be reduced interest in engagement, as previous years have had a great interest in engagement in this matter, but despite this material situation, such engagements pose a major challenge for every member of Serbia's military. It is certainly very positive that members of the Serbian Army are equating themselves with civil servants in the right to use annual holidays. This is done by supplementing Article 104 of the existing Act, paragraph 4, which stipulates that a professional military person is entitled to an annual vacation of 35 days if he has a service for more than 30 years, which is in accordance with the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Civil Servants. This proposal to supplement and amend Serbia's Military Law better arranged for the termination of a professional military service during a war or emergency for reasons that it would not be appropriate for a professional military officer to file a request for the termination of a professional military service during a war or emergency, which we also had cases in some period. It is immoral in these conditions to allow someone to leave the service for any reason. All new legal solutions will certainly strengthen Serbia's Army, but it is of particular importance to strengthen Serbia's military and defence powers of the Republic of Serbia, Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic's decision to regulate the return of the best and bravest soldiers. Bringing back an elite 63rd paratrooper brigade and a 72nd special brigade under the Serbian Army. Today, fortunately, we have in this room and one of the commanders of the 63rd paratrooper brigade who could tell us a lot about it, but certainly this decision by the president of the state is at the highest patriotic level. To remind ourselves that in 2000, the Serbia Army was constantly undermining its various legal solutions, and in 2006, two glorious brigades of the 63rd Parabrone Brigade and the 72nd Special Facts Brigade were abolished in 2006. Two of Serbia's most famous brigades that suffered the greatest burden of combat during the 1990s and NATO wars in 1999. I am pleased to welcome here my colleague, Mr Drecun, who has been following the NATO forces' aggression on Serbia all along, what has been the contribution of both the 63rd and 72nd brigades to special facts. The Elite 63nd and 72nd brigades are the most mobile, fastest, most skilled fast-action formations that are particularly prominent in the fight against terrorism and other forms of external threats to the security of the state. Serbia will now significantly raise Serbia's army's battle effort to defend the Republic of Serbia with the newly formed special units. The 63rd Parachure brigade was formed in December 1967 in Nis and Nislje was all along proud of such a single army unit that was stationed in their city. Since the very formation of the motto of the 63rd paratrooper brigade, it is for the homeland, for the second, for the rifle, for the military and war honor. The 63rd Brigade paratroopers work on it all the time. The 72nd Brigade of Special Facts was formed in June 1992 in Panchev, legendary 63. The 72nd Brigade always had a great reputation for the people and gave great moral support to the population. Former commander, the legendary Pristina Corps, Lieutenant General Vladimir Lazarevic said the abolition of the 63nd and 72nd brigade was a concept of weakness of Serbia's military and its organisational structure and overall combat preparedness. To remove these two brigades and bring them down to battalion level was completely irresponsible and unprofessional, not only to units and armies, but to our entire people. The Serbian president's decision to re-shape the 63rd Padabore Brigade and the 72nd Special Action Brigade has finally corrected a major injustice both against the units themselves and against the members of those units but also against Serbia's army in general. As I have already noted in the voting day, PUPS will support these laws, strategies and decisions and vote for. I thank you once again for these fundamental changes in these documents.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67995	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Predrag Jelenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67996	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers with associates, gentlemen officers, respected colleagues and colleagues, among other things in today's meeting, two very important documents are in front of the Constitution, a Strategy for the Defence of the Republic of Serbia and a Strategy for the National Security of the Republic of Serbia. As regards the proposal for a defence strategy of the Republic of Serbia as well as the known Defence Strategy of the Republic of Serbia is based on the Constitution and the National Security Strategy of the Republic of Serbia. This document, which we received in the material, analyses primarily the security environment, as we heard from the minister today, from the defence aspect of the Republic of Serbia and identify the challenges first, then the risks and threats of security against the importance of defence, then formulate defence interests and objectives, and establish the defence policy of its structure and governance as the principles of functioning of the defence system itself of the Republic of Serbia. Also, the security environment of the Republic of Serbia has been analysed at both global and regional level, and given the fact that the Republic of Serbia adapts its defence policy and monitors changes in the environment, precisely the attitudes and definitions in this document that we have received has been shown in the Strategy itself and is in line with the decision on military neutrality. As I said, a document today in front of the MPs shows key parameters in the process of finding a suitable model, a safe and defensive organization of modern societies. These are: the complexity and dynamics of international relations, international security integration and an increase in instability and unpredictability in the world. The defence interests of the Republic of Serbia, cited in this proposal, are primarily protected by sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity, the protection of the security of the Republic of Serbia and its citizens, the preservation of peace and security of the Republic of Serbia, the improvement of national security and defence through the process of European integration, military neutrality and co-operation and partnership with countries and international organisations in the area of security and defence. This proposal for a strategy also provides for the development of an action plan, which we heard from the promoters today, and its implementation, which will just enable them to mention the views of the Defence Strategy to be operationalised through the creation and adoption of public policies documents. As far as the proposal for a National Security Strategy of the Republic of Serbia is concerned, the National Security Strategy is the highest and most significant strategic document in the area of national security. This document sets out the basic strategic definitions of the Republic of Serbia in the area of national security. The National Security Strategy is the basis for drawing up strategic documents in all areas of social life, in order to preserve and protect the security of citizens and state and the functioning of state bodies and institutions. Also, the National Security Strategy fully maintains the commitment of the Republic of Serbia to general civilization and moral values, then, respecting its state-owned tradition, co-operation security, but also versatile international co-operation. In the area of security, the following national interests of the Republic of Serbia are identified: the preservation of sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity, the preservation of internal stability and security, preservation, the existence and protection of the Serb people, as well as national minorities and their cultural, religious and historical identity, the preservation of peace and stability in the region and the world, European integration and membership in the EU, economic development and overall prosperity and the preservation of the environment and the resources of the Republic of Serbia. We from the Social Democratic Party of Serbia advocate a safe life and a life without fear of any kind of violence and crime. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia in its programme points out that security is general good, which must be guaranteed to every citizen of the Republic of Serbia. In that sense, the Social Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group in the voting day will support a set of draft laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67997	Thank you. The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67998	Thank you. Dear Ministers, respected representatives of the Ministry of Defence, General Staff of the Republic of Serbia, allow me to say a few words as one of the representatives of the Socialist Party of Serbia in this debate on the proposals for a number of laws concerning our issue of the army of the Republic of Serbia and our most important national and defence interests. We will vote for all the laws, because we Socialists believe Serbia should have a strong army. For us, every law that promotes a system in which the military becomes competent, powerful, strong, capable of defending national interests, to realize defence interests. I'm not bringing this up by accident. I think the Republic of Serbia needs a strong army, not for anyone else to be afraid of, on the contrary, as a deterrent factor. There is no rational reason why the Republic of Serbia does not have a strong army and I cannot understand colleagues and colleagues who plead that the Republic of Serbia should not have its own army or that it should be reduced to a level that has no useful value at all. In the 1990s, we experienced a lot of bad things at the premises of the former Yugoslavia and, unfortunately, many things happened with the army of the then state, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, or that core that remained within the Republic of Serbia. But even such an army, when I say such an army, without even a single ugly thought, but compared to all that was happening in the 1990s, and in such conditions, the army of the then Federal Republic of Yugoslavia has shown an exceptional level of combat preparedness, the ability to resist NATO forces in 1999, in a way that the resistance lasted 78 days and nights. We can think for ourselves about how our army had people at that time, those who led it, and those who defended our country when one of the strongest military forces in the world at that time, should not forget, that's the end of the 20th century, when the United States was an absolute master of the international community and when they did everything they wanted, after all, and the aggression of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia confirmed it, and yet they dared not move on to a land offensive, but, if something like that had happened, they would probably be one ordinary colony today that does what they say. Within these laws that the Assembly is discussing today, I would like to draw your attention to two strategies, in my opinion very important documents, the Defence Strategy and the National Security Strategy. I think we should commend the people who wrote these two papers. Very analytical materials, with a lot of data, applied time in which this document is publicly promoted, which provide answers to the most important issues related to the national security of the Republic of Serbia, documents that speak of both national interests and national values which, in a certain way, depict the identity of the Republic of Serbia at the end of the second decade of the 20th century. Allow me, Mr. Minister, to say a few words about one of the defence interests that are highlighted here, which is a question of military neutrality. I think it's a good decision for Serbia. A non-typical decision for the Balkans, typical of our people and everything we've experienced, because of our identity and everything we've had in history. But this decision is not pleasant for everyone. Of course, it's mostly those midwives who can assure us that we should be part of some military-political block. I think the point of paragraph 3 of this document relating to military neutrality hides the essence of this very definition. Let me just quote: "The Republic of Serbia will develop and improve relations with these states and alliances, in line with its own interests." There's a catch. Those own interests. Many do not allow us to have our own interests and to think for ourselves, let alone do what we consider necessary. Little people aren't allowed to do that. A great one can do anything, a small one is not allowed anything, so it is not expected of someone like Serbia, in this space, that it can declare military neutrality or behave according to military neutrality. I spoke to a group of students the other day and one question -- what is the advantage of military neutrality, I, in my opinion, gave one of the most logical answers. I said it gives us a greater choice, which, in my opinion, is quite logical, because another dimension of military neutrality is being ignored. It's not just a question of military abilities and economic power, as well as all that it takes to make the army strong, but there's also a question of what goes behind. We also have a dedicated industry and everything that makes one defense system. I think it's a good thing we did that. This gives us the opportunity to gradually improve our weapons and simply create a strong army. I can't help thinking that after 2000, our army was devastated very knowingly and that some units or some kind of weapons were very consciously pushed into the past in order to, of course, reduce the defence capacity of the Republic of Serbia's Army. I'm glad some new steps are being taken today to make the army strong again and able to defend our country. I stress that it defends our country, because I think it is the fundamental interest of the Republic of Serbia. When it comes to the National Security Strategy, I am pleased that there are very detailed national interests, seven national interests, and I will only talk about three of them. The first is, of course, the preservation of sovereignty and independence, the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia. In this context, I cannot help but mention the issue of Kosovo and Metohija, because the Defence Strategy at the beginning, when it comes to challenges, risks and threats, finds the situation in the province, i.e. The unilateral declaration of independence of the territory, which is administratively covered by the province of Kosovo and Metohija, is not only contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the Security Council resolution, but also, above all, the biggest political and security challenge of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, everything Serbia has done to resolve this issue should be mentioned in the context of this issue. I think all these documents contain a lot of data that can give countless answers to the question of Kosovo and Metohija status and what the state is doing. In my humble court, in a document relating to the National Security Strategy, page 19, when we talk about normalising the opportunities and relations of defence in the AP Kosovo and Metohija, this whole paragraph could be considered as an explanation of why the Republic of Serbia signed the Brussels Agreement in 2013, of course, in order to normalise relations, to improve the quality of life of citizens. I'm saying this to underline, not only, as I would say, the multifunctionality of this document and how high it is, but also to give an explanation for our relationship with this most important security challenge and our most important national interest. We must realise that for the first time in 20 years after the 1999 bombing and the arrival of an international military and civilian mission of the UN, the Republic of Serbia is taking steps forward in, if I may say, opening the Kosovo and Metohija issues. The President of the Republic, Mr. Vukic, has the great credit. It has now been a year since the introduction of taxis, talks have been suspended practically, and the issue of talks with Pristina has been put on the other side, but it cannot be forgotten that before that, President Vukic has managed to raise it to the level that it becomes an important topic in talks with the most important representatives of the international community. The issue of resolving relations with Kosovo is something that, a year ago, was also supported by the President of the United States, and of course, I do not expect them to change their view of Kosovo and Metohija, but that they are interested in finding a solution, I believe they are. I don't think any solution can be found without the Republic of Serbia. The great quality of state leadership, above all Mr. Vukic, is that the issue was put back in the first place. However, this past time since the introduction of 100% taxis on goods from the Republic of Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina actually shows the essence of Western countries' relations with Kosovo and Metohija and dialogue as a way of resolving the issue. Unfortunately, many countries do not want this issue resolved. I have the impression that it suits them that there is latent tension in the Balkan area and that Western countries appear as someone who is ready to react, i.e. to be a sponsor of certain interests which, of course, do not comply with the interests of the Republic of Serbia. Because, if desired, I think that in the past year and a few days it could have been reacted, but not just in the past year and a few days, but in the past six and a few years since the Brussels Agreement was signed, because we have fulfilled the provisions regarding the Brussels Agreement, driven by the desire to improve the quality of life of citizens, but the Western countries have simply not sought, nor have they put any kind of pressure on Albanians from Kosovo and Metohija to fulfil their commitments. The European Union is not a mere observer in the talks, in a dialogue conducted or in a Brussels document signed. It should not be forgotten that EU foreign and security policy chief Catherine Ashton was one of the guarantees to implement the agreement. Unfortunately, we have not seen clearly on their part the intention to resolve this issue. Of course, others are not only about the EU High Representative, but unfortunately some EU countries do not want this issue resolved. And why not, I should say, I think within the EU that Germany is the main country that insists on recognising Kosovo and Metohija's independence. I simply think it's in line with their interests. I'm going back to this issue of our military ability. A small country is not allowed to have its own army, nor to defend its territory, something that is its national interest, and large countries allow them to intervene thousands of miles away from their territory, declaring it their strategic interests. There's a difference between big and small, but international law is the same for everyone. That is why the UN Security Council has adopted Resolution 1244, and therefore the resolution still stands today as the only valid document concerning Kosovo and Metohija. And that is why I will remind you of the position of UN legal adviser, issued in addressing the Security Council in June 2019 that Resolution 1244 of 1999 remains in force, and therefore the legal framework established by it continues to apply. If they can say that in the UN in June of this year, it is perfectly logical that such a position is also in the National Security Strategy. That things aren't done and that they shouldn't be accepted as done speeches and information about withdrawing confessions so-called. Independence. Minister Dacic played the lion's role there and he takes great credit for everything he's done. It's part of state policy, and he emphasizes it, he doesn't want to take over all the good things about withdrawing recognition. But the fact is that 17 countries withdrew recognition of Kosovo and Metohija and it was seen that without Serbia, this issue cannot be resolved. I'd like to pay more attention to two more things. Third in line to promote the national interests contained in the National Security Strategy and preserve the existence and protection of Serbian peoples where they live, as national minorities and their cultural, religious and historical identities. I think it is very important that the preservation of the existence and protection of his people where he lives, as I would say, is promoted as a national interest, as well as the desire to improve the position of national minorities and their cultural, religious and historical identity. Dear colleagues and colleagues, in the whirlwind of events that marked the 1990s, the fall of the former SFRY's biggest loser is the Serbian people. New national states have been created, new states have been created from the previous republics, but the biggest loser in all those events is the Serbian people. Why? Of the constituent people in one country, the former SFRY, the Serbian people have experienced that in Slovenia they will not be recognised as a minority, that more than 300,000 people will be expelled from Croatia, in BiH thanks to the Dayton Agreement, this is a constituent people, in Montenegro is a formal minority, a fundamental national minority without rights, in Macedonia a national minority that is not respected. When you look at the whole thing here, as I would say, the beauty of events that marked the 1990s with regard to the Serbian people, then it seems quite logical that the queen country of Serbia promotes the preservation, existence and protection of the Serbian people as its national interest, of course, and minorities. I think Serbia is a rare country in the areas not only of Europe, but of the wider, where national minorities have the opportunity to fully meet all the elements of their identity and Serbia can serve as an example to others. In the end, I don't think I should skip the initiative that is very current these days, which was discussed by my fellow MPs, President Vukic's initiative on "mini Schengen". I think that's a good initiative. Freedom of movement of capital, goods, people without borders is something that can advance this region. This also fits both strategies, as they also talk about regional co-operation as an important part of improving security in the region. It is also interesting to see the reaction of some, however, who welcomed President Vukic's initiative to the knife, of course, by seeing some specific goals, not realizing that the Republic of Serbia is strongly defined for the preservation of peace and stability in the region and that it is one of the elements of the Republic of Serbia to improve the situation in the region. Anyway, I think when we talk about these two strategies, it's about two great documents and I think it's a good thing we're adopting them. This will be one message to the general public that Serbia knows what its national interests are, that Serbia knows what its defence interests are, that Serbia is working on realising both interests and that Serbia wants to have a competent army for its own safety and only for its own safety. Nothing more and nothing less. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u67999	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Alexander Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u68000	I thank the honourable MPs who have discussed it so far. Just for a little while. When it comes to the national interest that we have cited, which is to preserve the Serbian people, no matter where they live, it is to preserve Republika Srpska, it only tells you that this country has become so aware of itself, its strength, its importance and, of course, that it does not experience Serbs living outside Serbia as a burden, as some authorities have previously experienced. They experienced them as we now have to fight for them. Serbs living outside Serbia are our treasure, not just our countrymen, but our treasure. They are the ones for which this country can and must do everything it can to preserve them, to strengthen them economically, in order to always make it known diplomatically to say -- as you treat the Serbs you live with, so treat Serbia the end you live with. There can be no good relations with the government in Belgrade, and that you are scolding Serbs and that you do not respect their human rights. It has its price. If that's how you behave, it has its price. It is up to you to think – is it not better to accept Serbs as a bridge of co-operation with Serbia, an important, important, most important country in the Balkans, than to view them as a remethyling factor and something you do not need? The "storm" will never happen again. He can't. This Serbian state won't let that happen. It's just not possible and it'll never happen again. You were talking about "mini Schengen". I believe in Serbia. I believe that we are able to use such benefits. I believe that we have the strongest economy, that we have the best entrepreneurs, that we have the best roads that everyone will want to go through and pay for what they're going through. I believe in Serbia's integrated power, that when Serbia says something, does, wishes, the Balkans turn around Serbia, rather than the other way around. That hasn't been possible so far. You've seen some presidents apologizing to someone, praying to someone. Tadic says - we are guilty of war in Croatia. On whose behalf did you say that? How did you get here, how to measure your chest, how did you get that chest, how did you get it? We always had politicians and those who ran this country who didn't know that they recognized this simple national interest. When you treat your people like this, you treat Serbs, so how can you expect someone to want to work with you, how can you expect someone to work and cooperate with you? Today, when President Vukic speaks to the Balkans, he understands what he means, sometimes he doesn't like it, but you can't ignore Serbia and what it wants. Through what we call "mini Shengen", through that possibility, that's a possibility, first of all, for our economy. Why don't we believe in Serbia, why don't we believe that we'll be the ones who will benefit the most? I believe it firmly and I can see it. Just look, look, always look, what the Shipari are doing, what they are doing in Croatia and how Milo Djukanovic is dealing with something. You know it's good for Serbia if those three factors speak against it. Add Izetbegovic and his team. When you see it, you know that you have to be on the other side if you care about Serbs, because I have not yet seen an event where Croatia, Milo Djukanovic, Izetbegovic and Shipari have been on some side with the idea of helping Serbs and that the Serbian state is making some progress and has some benefit. I've never seen that before. I'll look forward to it when it happens, but it hasn't happened yet. Infallible, just follow what they're doing, you'll know what you need to be. You've heard what they say about "mini Shengen". They see that problem. They say -- no, no, that's what Vukic wants to make a big Serbia. He won't make a big Serbia. Vukic wants Serbia to be strong, powerful, open, free, wants Serbia to be big and strong in the economy, to be big and strong in diplomacy. After all, all the nations in the Balkans recognize it and it is time for us to recognize it too. There is no Balkans without a powerful and strong Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u68001	Thank you. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Milovan Dracun.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u68002	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister with Associates, gentlemen of the honorary and heroic army of our fellow MPs, we have two extremely important strategies ahead, a law that should allow our army to be even more advanced, even more quality. I'd like to make an opinion of myself, perhaps make some suggestions, given the modest knowledge I possess from this area. Before renovating on some of our shares, a vehicle is driven 10-20 kilometers per hour. Just yesterday, I came from China, and there I was on a fast train that reached a speed of 310 kilometers per hour. 20 kilometers and 310. Does this have anything to do with the National Security and Defence Strategy? I think so, too. It is these trains that show how rapidly the world in which we live is changing, how technologically it is progressing, and that if we want to have a safe, successfully developed state, we need to adapt to that environment. Just, reading these strategies that you have proposed, and considering this aspect, I was very, very surprised, because for the first time we have this comprehensive concept that is particularly realistic, which looks at global, regional, internal processes in such a way that the future is turned around and that allows long-term planning in the processes of national security and defence, an environment has been identified, i.e. a world that changes, challenges, risks, defined concept of security, interest, not only of the state of Serbia, but of the whole Serbian people. Both strategies that cannot be seen separately, of course, but what Negos would say – that the funnies are the best drink, represent an innovative, modern, dynamic and flexible concept that identifies the risks of security and creates a mechanism of protection of the security of the interests of the entire Serbian people in and outside Serbia, because the Serbian people are at risk outside Serbia, but also in Serbia itself, in the area of Kosovo and Metohija. The Serbian people have been deposed in Montenegro, Croatia, Albania and Serbia is the country of origin of the Serbian people and it must protect its people in all possible ways. I looked at the information you provided us on these two strategies and just one suggestion in these introductory notes. You say that the key definitions in the draft new National Security and Defence Strategy were: military neutrality, a comprehensive and integrated security approach, the preservation of the AP of Kosovo and Metohija in the Republic of Serbia, the care of the Serb people outside the borders of the Republic of Serbia and the commitment to join the EU. I would add here, first of all, a multilateral international order that is currently being created, which leads countries like BRIKS. In the end, I would add that prevention of risk and security challenges is what is most important to us. They don't respond to challenges and risks, they respond to prevention. When it comes to the development of these strategies, I just want to point out a few aspects. Of course, I am absolutely in agreement with the challenges, risks and security threats of importance for the defense that you have defined, is a top priority against the legal unilaterally declared independence of the territory that administratively covers AP KIM. It is a unilateral act of declaring Kosovo's independence as a key link to a major Albania project. Continuing the implementation of the de facto project will endanger security in other parts of central Serbia, such as the south of central Serbia, the Rasko-Polim area, and given that some unification of Kosovo and Albania is announced, if so, we would have a difficult situation, a completely new environment that would significantly affect the security of our country and the entire Serbian people, because Albania is a NATO member. The more a strong base of radical Islam, jihadism and terrorism has been established on KIM, which further threatens security and attacks already security both central Serbia and the entire Serbian people. You have defined here the asymmetricity of the threat of terrorism and its connection to organized crime. Very interesting thesis. I couldn't agree more. Let me just ask you something - what do you think there are threats in this form that you've defined, for example? the ever-present appearance of the setting up of sports results in Serbia? I think there's a need to pay attention. When someone sets up a football game, one group of people, individuals know about it, and then, based on that set-up, they take big financial assets in bookies, which our services can't track down afterwards, because the services are the easiest to track down terrorist leads through money trails. Then it can further endanger the security of our country and open it simply to the functioning of terrorists, but also to the functioning of foreign intelligence services, and we are also faced, especially our military, especially our dedicated industry, especially our state leadership. You have also defined that effective control of the state border is essential for the protection of the security of the Republic of Serbia and its citizens. I agree with you on that, and that must be the joint effort of the Ministry of Interior and the Army. Let me ask you again. If we're talking about effective control of the state border, does the security of the state endanger a situation where, for example, a vehicle of a local political power or a politician can cross a state border without any kind of control? towards Macedonia, there and back, just to raise the ramp? As a citizen, can I be sure that this vehicle will not be transportable to some dangerous matter, transferred to a wanted terrorist, capable of carrying out some terrorist action? That is why I fully support you in the view that the border must be provided in detail. There must be no privileged individuals there, because we have no guarantee that those privileges, which are not legal, will not abuse and endanger the security of the state. Now, there's something I want to ask you to explain to me, but also to suggest something. You talk on several occasions about the concept of hybrid and informative warfare. I wouldn't separate it. You know, the main direction of hybrid warfare that becomes a priority is on the information plan. You are talking about timely detection and prevention of risk and security threats and you say – a single early warning system will be established. It is this concept of this unique early warning system that I am very interested in and it is almost identical to the personal thoughts and concepts that it has, regarding the establishment of something that I would like to suggest to you, Mr. Minister and gentlemen officers, and I think our country should have that. In dealing with these problems, I've developed something that should be our answer to hybrid threats. There is no dilemma that Serbia has been exposed recently to several parallel hybrid operations aimed at our interests. Some of you may have followed the reaction of some Bulgarian officials to my statements that the Bulgarian intelligence service is active in Serbia and that it was an interesting context in which some of the affairs that should be damaged by our dedicated industry are being created by journalists of Bulgarian nationality. I received a reply from the former Bulgarian Defence Minister who knew what I was talking about, who said, literally, that it had gone unnoticed in our public, you Mr. Ministers had something to say to Bulgarian officials on the subject, the former Bulgarian Defence Minister tells us this way – that Bulgaria should be present with its intelligence services and that it is present and that it should strengthen its presence due to Russia's hybrid action in Serbia. Imagine that. Says the former Bulgarian defence minister that this is particularly necessary because of the Russian humanitarian centre, which he calls the Nis spy centre, while Nis is located 30km from the Bulgarian border and no one responds to it and no Bulgarian official has denied it and asked how is it possible that the Bulgarian border is only 30km from Nis? It is possible, but in the great Bulgaria, in the plans of the great Bulgaria. Is that someone triggering the plans of the great Bulgaria again? Is the Bulgarian Defence Minister talking about whether, as defence minister, he and his associates worked out a plan for Bulgaria with borders to reach Nis, somewhere near Bela Palanka? So, Dimitrovgrad and Piroth, are these really Western Bulgarian provinces, as some have said? It's just these hybrid operations that are being conducted, especially on the information plan. I'd like to explain this concept a little bit because I think that concept should have been given a lot more attention. To say right away, all you wrote in the strategies is an explanation of hybrid wars. I would, however, define it as a priority way of jeopardising our country's security and interest, because the term hybrid threat refers to actions carried out by state or non-state actors aimed at harming a hybrid attack entity, in this case, Serbia, by affecting its decision at a local, state or institutional level, although it does not exclude commercial methods of combat. The hybrid war accent puts above all information space, media, social networks to implement the disinformation campaign on the so-called strategy. non-violent changes in the regime, i.e. colored revolutions, the use of non-regulatory units, are particularly interesting private military companies, it's linear space, i.e. cyber war, as well as various types of subversive action, the spying of economic, cultural and political devasting of the state, extremism, terrorism. All of this is contained in the concepts of the National Security and Defence Strategy that you have proposed. Especially dangerous is the impact of hybrid operations on young people who communicate mostly over that line of space and through which very easily it can be influenced by destructive Facebook news, propaganda and various misinformation. You will agree that such a hybrid operation is largely ongoing in Serbia. A number of complex forms of hybrid operations are being conducted against the Republic of Serbia, the entire Serbian people and Republika Srpska on several sides on a political, economic, media, security plan aimed at the state and non-state actors having a crucial impact on the internal processes and foreign policy of the Republic of Serbia to undermine the political, economic and social system and achieve mass brainwashing of the population for the destabilising of society and state. The activities of foreign intelligence entities towards citizens and the institutions of Serbia have been critically strengthened in order to achieve co-operation networks, with members of the military and police at stake in particular. Unfortunately, there seems to be certain breakthroughs. Ad hoc centres for the intelligence hybrid action towards the Republic of Serbia were also formed, particularly the media-propaganda direction, hybrid action and the growth of capacity for the colored revolution. A line of external hybrid action carriers with their internal foundations, political, media, financial, MVO sector, actors is network-shaped, funded, media-backed, well-connected with profiled impact groups for specially sensitive violent character operations. All major forces, NATO, the EU, many countries, the ICTY, have formed centres for anti-hybrid action. The competent state authorities defend against hybrid activity in my opinion are still significantly conservative, sometimes passive, even inert. Current hybrid operations, given that part of the wider geopolitical conflict, are intensified in the coming period, by the scale and directions of increasingly diverse, are of long-term character and will be continuously implemented, making it necessary to identify carriers, mode and methodology of operation of the hybrid threat bearers, to study them in detail and to urgently form an additional state mechanism to defend this complex and destabilising operation. More significant efforts are needed to build a social, state environment, resistant to devastating hybrid action. National security will increasingly rely on a resilient, informative environment and a population that is constantly educated against social manipulation techniques. All major forces, NATO and the EU, many countries have formed centres for anti-hybrid action, are examples of those who would like to deal with these activities, see, for example, a hybrid soybean in Helsinki and NATO "StratCom" center in Riga. When you look at their analysis, much will be clearer to you about what is happening in Serbia and around Serbia. In my view, such a centre that should be urgently formed should actually be a platform that will bring together experts of different profiles and practitioners, to build the ability, or model, to test new ideas and practice, to realise a strategy of preventive opposition and to defend against hybrid threats that are present or will appear on the internal plan and that come from the outside. The centre should define a model of defence of hybrid threats and can prepare a bill to counter hybrid threats. I think that would be the most concrete realization of all these things you've written and very well, you've seen all the problems in both of these strategies. As for preserving peace and security in the region and the world, one of the priorities is the preservation of Republika Srpska, a BiH-based co-ordination, in line with the Dayton Agreement and the improvement of the position of Serbs in the region and the world. It has become inseparable and in particular, I would say, thanks to the behaviour of Republika Srpska's president, that the interests of the Republic of Serbia and the Republika Srpska, or of the Serb people living on both sides of Drina, are inseparable and that a common future will be created. I would also like to point out the current statement by the Secretary General of NATO. Stoltenberg, in a statement to the German agency "DPA", says NATO is paying particular attention to the growing influence of China in the world, which may even be more dangerous than Russia. China and Russia are quite different cases, not that NATO is going to go to the South China Sea, but that China is approaching us in every sense, investing a lot in European infrastructure, especially in the Western Balkans. They are also present in Africa, we see them in Artik, but in cyberspace. That's why we have to consider all the consequences for safety, Stoltenberg points out. This implementation must guide us towards increased opposition to hybrid action. What Stoltenberg said was a hybrid threat to us. China is a significant investor, a great friend of the state of Serbia, but a statement by Stoltenberg and an analysis that you can find on the StratCom site of the NATO Centre, in Riga, shows that they are increasingly treating Chinese capital, as a corrosive capital, a Chinese presence as a malignant influence and that they are focused on the elimination, they say, of Russia's hybrid presence, China and Turkey. Serbia will inevitably come under the influence of this interpretation of Chinese investment and of Serbian-Chinese friendship, which is already happening with Serbian-Russian relations. A few words I would just like to tell you about the concept of Serbia's military neutrality. The only possible suitable concept in the multipolar world that is being established and it does not mean, it is not typical, in my opinion, the concept of military neutrality, but atypical, active, which means we will not join any military political alliance, but we want maximum co-operation with anyone who even on this corporate plan and on the regional plan establish these regional or global collective security systems. Is that actually possible? Yes, it is. Here's an example, let's say, first we have to keep in mind, one MP discussed something on the subject, we have to keep in mind our environment, all around us are NATO members, not counting on BiH, so we're in the NATO environment. I must tell you that as head of our delegation in the ODKB in the parliamentary assembly, I have been forced on several occasions to explain to the representatives of the parliaments of the members of the ODKB environment in which Serbia is located. We cannot ignore the situation that we are in a full NATO environment, an environment that the Euro-Atlantic alliance considers its zone of full domination, wants to fully marginalise the influences of other forces. To us, the concept of military neutrality is something that allows us to co-operate with everyone. We have annual, depending from year to year, between 120 and 150 joint activities of different levels with NATO and US members. But we have a parallel with 30, 40 activities with the Russian Federation and with countries, or collective security arrangements. At the same time, what many forget when they talk about our key strategic political definition, to become a member of the EU, the Republic of Serbia supported 24 out of 48 EU declarations in 2017, is 50%. This Regulation shall enter into Serbia has been called 73 times to join EU declarations, joined 38 times, that is 52%. Since the beginning of 2019 59.30%. That means we're working on harmonising our foreign security policy. In EU operations, in four peacekeeping operations, 22 members of the Serbian Army are currently engaged, in UN missions and operations of 260 members of the Serbian Army. In addition to these, two members of the MUP were involved in multinational missions and operations. In 2015, the government of the Republic of Serbia decided to start preparations for the participation of members of the Serbian Ministry of Defence in the EU's battle groups. In November 2016, Serbia joined a technical agreement establishing an EU battle group called Helbrok. Not to read any further, activities on a defence security plan with all global entities affecting one or another in our position are being carried out in parallel. It's a practical definition of our position of military neutrality. Of course, co-operation with the collective security arrangements was a matter of one MP, if I am not mistaken, can and should bring concrete results. Just to remind you, the collective security agreement organisation is dedicated to a priority fight against international terrorism and organised crime. These are our very important security challenges. Is there a particular need to talk about the relationship between radical Islamists, jihadists and Central Asian terrorists, where the ODKB's responsibility zone is, and then the Caucasus and these jihadists and terrorists in the Balkans have been established, and how strong, but this relationship continues, it goes towards... (not understood), i.e. with the extreme Uygurs in China, established through the Islamic state and through Al-Qaeda and many other jihadist organizations. What I am particularly pleased is that you have seen very correctly that in order to preserve the internal stability and security of the Republic of Serbia and its citizens, protection of human and minority rights and the freedom of citizens, the rule of law continues to develop democracy and democratic institutions. That you said that the focus of engagement is on preventive measures, and I think that's crucial. It is necessary to prevent extremism and terrorism, because only in the recruitment and deology phase is the possible answer, when someone so much is given a rifle in his hand then it is difficult to fight them. Just a few more military-related sentences. As I see it coming from these two key strategies, from the proposed law regarding the addition of the Army Act, I am absolutely sure and therefore also support these strategies and the law, that we are on the best track to create a mobile, flexible, more adaptable army with highly educated and trained personnel, with the most modern equipment and weapons, an army that will be absolutely committed to protecting the country and in which its members put their country ahead of their lives, Serbia is in the first place what the American president would say, though he says - America in the first place, that it is built and that a dynamic security sector is being built, that the international dimension is gaining and exchanging experience and how important in the military, especially the standard of military members. It is an army that, in my opinion, acts preventively, that prevents possible aggressor and is, in fact, the most important feature and strength of the current army. The deterrence from aggression is the most efficient, cheapest and most successful protection of people's lives, sovereignty and security of the state. Personally, I think with these two strategic documents and with the army we create Serbia can provide a stable environment for economic development. I really want to take the opportunity to give you, Mr. Minister, and your associates, I am fully aware of how many people have participated in writing and making these documents, to confess and to tell you that you have made a very brave and responsible approach, first to consider the situation around us and the world in which we are and to define some very bold moves in these strategies. That's why I assume you'll also get the support of the vast majority of MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u68003	Thank you, Mr. Dracun. The word has a minister, Alexander Vulin. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u68004	To thank you briefly for such careful study, it is not reading, it is studying our strategy. Thank you very much for your support, understanding and professional help. I'm just going to look back at one segment of your exposure, which is cybersecurity, these are hybrid threats. No one in the world is quite sure how wide this is, how dangerous hybrid warfare is, how dangerous is the conflict in cyberspace. That's what the world's greatest forces can say they know a lot about it, but we all little ones know almost nothing. It's terribly dangerous. The first and the main thing is to find out that you've been attacked at all. You don't even know you're under attack. You don't even know when to look at what's threatening you. You don't recognize the attack. You don't know that the largest number of comments on social networks is generated from different intelligence centers in our environment. You will recognize them from grammatical mistakes that a little bit strangely speak Serbian until they suddenly appear in a split second of the news and cover the entire spectrum of our known Internet, to a much more serious thing like trespassing into our information systems, such as the attack on the defence industry, such as the attack on our country, on our leadership. So you just don't even know you're under attack. You're suffering an attack, and you don't know you're under attack. Otherwise, the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army have already recognised that. We started in an organisational sense to adapt to that need, but here, and I'm going to end it, not to detail it much, it's the work of the whole state. It can't be done by one ministry or an army. It has to be done by the entire state, to mobilise all its capacities, to secure from hardware, software to people, most importantly. You know, all countries don't accidentally kidnap for IT and pay a lot of them, they pay a lot of money. It's very hard to keep them, it's very hard to keep them. So it has to be the work of the whole state. Little is the Department of Defense, little is one strategy, or the whole state will do it, or we'll be free to do anything with us. It's just like that. The future wars will not be waged by conventional systems, or by cyber wars to facilitate the entrance of the conventional army. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u68005	Thank you, Minister. The word is Dr Jahja Fehratovic. Here you go, Dr. Fehratovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u68006	Thank you. Here, perhaps today as one of the few members of the minority people, let me look back at these documents. Listening to this whole debate, and in certain moments and the minister himself, it is the impression that these are strategies that concern only the Serb people. However, if we look at this document, we will see that it is not in all segments and that there are very good and quality things here, even those that are truly commendable, such as, let's say, one of the priorities for putting national minorities into priorities of the Republic of Serbia, that is, what is here, that one of the conditions for education and equal participation of members of the national minority in all the structures of the government is one of the conditions for further improving security in the state of Serbia. Of course, this is really commendable, this attitude towards national minorities and the status of national minorities, and that is actually what reflects the title of the document itself, i.e. that this is a strategy of the Republic of Serbia in which both Serbs and other minority peoples live. What perhaps bothers me, not perhaps, but certainly, as a Bosniak and as a Muslim, is that several places in this document talk about so-called Islamic radicalism. There is no Islamic radicalism or jihadism. Islam is pure of any extremism and terrorism, as any other religion is pure. In fact, these are certain types of sects, used and abused people who have neither faith nor nation or Muslim, those who are well-organized by believing in traditional religious communities are offended when it's said to be Islamic radicalism, extremism or terrorism, especially if it's in strategic documents and when it's said to be exported to other battlefields. If so, then we could also talk about Orthodox extremism and terrorism, because from this country, Orthodox as terrorists also went to other battlefields. I don't think it's by believing people or Muslims or Orthodox people, because it's essentially those who abuse faith for such purposes. Of course, this is also very important for us here because we had experience, unfortunately, that these phenomena are being installed thanks to the former regimes, because in 2007 and 2008 by the then Kostunica regime was tried to create a paraverical artificial formation and to break the unity of the Islamic community and Muslims. That's why we've spoken here several times, even in the military when it comes to military imams, it doesn't reflect the real image of the traditional Islamic community. Also, another very important item I would like the minister or someone to comment on. It's interesting here and it's good, i.e. Commendation is the preservation, existence and protection of Serbian people wherever they live, as well as national minorities and their cultural, religious and historical identity, the conditions of survival of the Republic of Serbia. Now, this is also about the diaspora in the strategy. Is this perhaps an unfortunate formulation, so it is only about protecting the interests of Serbian citizens of Serbian nationality in the diaspora, because it is an impression from reading, or is the general protection of the interests of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia in the diaspora? Because if we have almost 25% of the non-Serbs in this country, there are indeed great diaspora of all minority peoples, then it would be good, because here it is not clear, that it also refers to the protection of the interests of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia regardless of national and religious membership, wherever they are in the world. I believe it was the idea, but maybe it was an unfortunate formulation. Also, another question I'd like to ask the minister. The introduction says that the national security of the Republic of Serbia is an objective state of protection of its national values, of interest to all forms of endangerment, and a subjective sense of citizens' security. Is this subjective feeling actually the happiest formulation? How can we do that in the subjective sense of making strategies? Should this be a possible assessment of all possible hazard risks, etc? I don't think this subjective feeling here should have a place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u68007	Thank you, Dr. Fehratovic. The word is made by Minister Alexander Vulin. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u68008	Dear Professor, let me thank you for your discussion and let me tell you right now that we've been very clear. So, preserving the property and protecting the Serb people, wherever he lives, as well as national minorities, their cultural, religious and historical identity, the conditions of survival of the Republic of Serbia, I think it's perfectly clear. What is more important than how we formulated it is that it happens in the Republic of Serbia, in the Republic of Serbia it is done. When it comes to diaspora and Serbs, it is said clearly – preservation of the Republic of Serbia, diaspora and Serbs abroad. So, diaspora, the diaspora is all those who are not in Serbia, and Serbs abroad. I'm sorry, the Serbs are the most, the logical thing to do is to take care of it, this is the state, in the extreme line, where Serbs live in the vast majority, and it's logical that they have that kind of sentiment and that they feel that way. Islamic fundamentalism or Muslim terrorism, however, I can understand you, but it's a deficient term that's simply being used absolutely in the world and it's a termological definition which is as such recognized. I absolutely accept, and of course I believe, like you, that Islam can't be terrorist, but those who practice Islam do it that way. I can't accept talking about Orthodox fundamentalism, Orthodox terrorism. I have not yet heard that a member of the Orthodox faith entered the mosque, rose up into the air and cried out, for Christ and the Holy Trinity. It's not. So it didn't happen, nobody did. It doesn't exist, I won't argue that there may be any kind of lunatic, but there's no record of an organized terrorist Orthodox group doing something wrong. So we can't accept that equation. I'm sure as an educated man, who loves his religion, he can't accept the Islamic state, he can't accept the Caliphate in Raca, he can't. That's not really possible. Those who were in the Caliphate, who were in the Islamic state, are a security threat more to you than to me, because, as you know, those in the first place deal with Muslims, first of all, and then when they reach Christians, they're very happy, but first they do it to Muslims, so I don't have a dilemma at all. Control of all returnees from the Syrian wartime is of the greatest interest to the Islamic community in our country. As for, of course, rights for members of the army who plead as Muslims, they are provided, as you know, with all rights. They have the opportunity to worship, have the opportunity to feed in accordance with their religious law, in every barracks where there are corresponding numbers they have imams, they have a place where they can practice their religious customs. On VMA, for example, there is a special space where patients of Islamic religion can perform their rituals. So here we are very, very responsible, I just don't want this to turn into a debate about terrorism or religion, no. I just have to say, the terror of the Islamic state hasn't been recorded anywhere and can't be compared to anything. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u68009	Thank you, Minister. Right on line, commentary, Jahja Fehratovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u68010	Thank you for these clarifications, dear ministers, especially in this first part, that this applies to the entire diaspora. When I was talking about those who are characterized as terrorists, they go to foreign battlefields, I was thinking about those who go to Ukraine in the name of Orthodoxism, that was also in the media, that's something that can be equivalent. Of course, what it is is this thing that you mentioned and what it represents, the ones that went to Syria, etc. In fact, they have nothing to do with Islam, and it's actually something that is the instrument of those who produced it to do, as you say, and you're quite right, the most harm to Muslims themselves and people who believe. It's something that's de facto and it's something that didn't exist on our premises, which couldn't have just passed, until unfortunately we were installed that artificial division within the Islamic community. When I was talking about the army, I was thinking about the very imams coming from that part that is not traditionally from the Islamic community in Serbia, but belongs to that formation that was registered in 2007, while the traditional Islamic community in Serbia is the one that should ultimately and proportionately have responsibility for most of the Muslims in this country. It was meant to have a share of its imams in the Army of the Republic of Serbia, as it has always been, for every praise of this to VMA and some other places, and that is something that is a good tradition of the Serbian or Serbian armies, as it has always been, for example, in the period of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, when they were specifically told, when they were special religious officials of imam. So all of this is undeniable and really commendable. We would not feel for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to sit here all day and not try to make a contribution to this document, this strategy, but we would like to point out what we see, feel and believe, as well as to believe that it might improve, in this way lead to a level that is acceptable and acceptable for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because you will not have a problem with me, nor with the values and the citizens that I represent, but you will likely have a problem with some of the other political parties that represent perhaps national minorities here, or my national minority, who will abuse you or literally understand this document and use it as an instrument that precisely some parts of that strategy that was made here apply, unfortunately, to the most Bosniaks and other national minorities in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u68011	Thank you, colleague Fehratovic. Now the word has been made by the People's MP Bojan Bagica. Here you go, Mr. Bag.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u68012	Thank you, Chairman. The esteemed Minister Vulin with his associates, gentlemen officers, fellow MPs, before us today, along with other legislative proposals, are also the proposals of two top strategic documents protecting the national interests of the Serbian state against the widest challenges, risks and threats. It is impossible to talk about anything related to the Army of Serbia, national security and the defence of the state, and not to look back at the goal our military has survived over the last two decades, the same army that has been providing a heroic NATO resistance to the alliance during a criminal NATO aggression against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia in 1999. A little more than a year after the end of the war, those who ordered the bombing of Serbia and the killing of its citizens, through their listeners, in a well-tested way, through arson, destruction and beating up political insinuators, are introducing a five-octobaric democracy into Serbia. After this violent change of government, the new puppet power, by courting foreign mentors, begins with systematic destruction, breaking and humiliating of the military and its members. Their first moves were a drastic reduction in the number of active members of the army, as well as its operational composition. In addition, they were spent, destroyed and dumped in old iron by significant means of fighting and military equipment, and wartime commanders who led a heroic fight against NATO aggressors and their allies, Cypriot terrorists, neither guilty nor debtors end either in The Hague tribunal or are forced to retire. Thus, the Serbian Army was robbed, devastated and decapitated by the government's summit at the time, and brought to ruin. With the change of government in 2012 and the arrival of today's Serbian President Alexander Vukic at the head of the Ministry of Defence, the military began to recover, the state began to invest again in military technology, equipment and infrastructure, but also to raise the standard of living among members and all of us here know that Minister Alexander Vulin, the Ministry of Defence, and, of course, the Serbian Army itself could not achieve such good, much more brilliant results that the president of the Republic of Serbia and the commander-in-chief of Serbia, Alexander Vucic. As one of the results of such quality and fundamental work, two documents are present today that define national and defence interests clearly for the first time. The main starting points of both strategies are the preservation of sovereignty and territorial integrity, military neutrality and concern for the Serb people in the diaspora. Finally, after decades, we have enough armed and trained armies to protect our own country and people from anyone in the region, but also to protect all our countrymen wherever they live in the region. I would particularly like to emphasise and commend, above all, the fact that our positions on Kosovo and Metohija, as well as the views that Kosovo and Metohija are an inalienable part of Serbia, are highlighted in terms of preserving the sovereignty and integrity of the Serbian state. Of course, I would also like to praise that the Defence Strategy is for the first time clearly defined and military neutrality of Serbia, that the objectives and measures for its application are clearly defined and that Serbia will not adhere to any military-political alliance, and that the defence will soon be conceived by relying on our own strengths to use its own capacities and potential with a new strategic concept of defence, which is a fundamental element of total defence and which I sincerely hope will soon include the return of mandatory military service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u68013	Thank you, Comrade Torbice. Now the word is Natasha Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u68014	Mr. Minister, gentlemen, the SRS has since its establishment advocated the overall development of Serbia's national awareness of strengthening the unity of the state and the people and the Serbian Army and that it should play a very important role in all this. We, as a party and in our case through the country wars, made a measurable contribution to the defence of Serbia and Serbian countries, and we believe that today, and this should have included this strategy, this role of volunteers should have been very important, because the fact that they have made this immeasurable contribution speaks sufficiently of it. What I want to put an accent on in my presentation is the definition of the Serbian government and thus the President of the Republic, as well as you, Mr. Minister, that Serbia has the status of a military neutral country. We Serbian radicals believe that in such geopolitical circumstances and everything that has happened to us in recent past challenges ahead of us and for future generations, it is not a good decision. First, because of the fact that no one, nor you, nor the President of the Republic, and no one who spoke to the team on this occasion could clearly and justifiedly explain to us, and what this really means, because all of the circumstances that Serbia faces today and above all, because of the situation in Kosovo and Metohija, in the sovereign part of the territory that has been under NATO's occupation for 20 years, says that this should not be such a decision. Many military analysts who go hand in hand to you in that attitude have said that the example of some countries in the world has shown that it is possible, but these are also the wrong examples of those countries that have such status, which otherwise no other of the great powers and admits nor can you even legitimateize, you can say so, but simply if some people do not give God the unforeseeable circumstances no one will ask you, but you should be prepared, that is, the state and the Serbian Army to meet all the challenges. As a state in the Balkans that is surrounded by NATO pact countries, a vicious NATO pact that has bombed us without doubt, a NATO pact that has just spoken to a colleague about it, and you have also mentioned how it conducts a silent, soft, but hybrid war against Serbia, strikes Orthodoxism through the abduction of churches in the SPC and monasteries in Montenegro. So these are all challenges ahead of us, and you say we're going to be a military neutral state. We believe that to restore full sovereignty over Kosovo's territory and the Metohija to prevent other actions that and that Western forces are predicting in the further deployment of our country, the military and strategic alliance with the Russian Federation would be the right solution for Serbia. Russia is like a great world and military force to us the only true and sincere friend next to China, of course, like the great and powerful states and other countries that have strengthened, which have not recognised so-called. Independent Kosovo, but Russia above all because it has shown unequivocally by its performance in the UN through military co-operation that we have with the Russian Federation, and above all the force that knows what threats all come from the NATO Pact, that we should become a member of the ODKB, which is an SRS initiative, and that through strategic military co-operation we simply tell those who are from the NATO Pact that they cannot just plan all these activities that they are planning here. Don't think, Mr. Minister, that the very fact that the Serbian Government will say and the President of the Republic that we are militaryly neutral is that we are protected. We are not protected, and we believe that even greater contributions to strengthen Serbia's defence power should be through budget cuts, to strengthen Serbia's professional military. In this Vosca Act we have seen, you have submitted amendments that are technical or essential. Since the beginning and prior to the first professionalisation of the army we have advocated its professionalisation, we have suggested, it seems to me that Article 9 in the bill that every contractual obligation should be indefinitely, that in the Republic of Serbia's budget there must always be enough funds to increase the salaries of professional soldiers, professional officers, for much greater separations for their housing, for solving issues, so-called. military homeless. Mr. Minister, after the break-up of JNA and the wars that occurred when Serbia was attacked and when we survived the pogrom by our traditional enemies, above all Ustasha, it was seen precisely at the military staff that our Serb army should nationalise and how new young officers who already have good experience and knowledge are preparing for all these new challenges and threats that can be conditioned in the future. We also asked when the draft budget for 2020 was that all the funds given from the budget for NGOs, such as Soros' organisations, which, of course, only have a different name, were just given to strengthen the military, the police, because they are the bearers of all subversive activities in our country. It is they who are one of the link and a component for cyber, for activities against our country, for all other activities that will lead to the rule of precisely those not the Serbian Army, which would tomorrow join Serbia in the NATO Pact, but it is well known what the majority position of the Serbian people is. I will conclude this, that the NATO pact's stance towards Serbia's military neutrality is not so mild. I am as a member of the SRS in the delegation of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly and at all the meetings we have, whether it's spring or autumn, in addition to all resolutions that are extremely anti-Serbian we have a periodic report on what they say, the Western Balkans' territory. Not to look kindly at strengthening our country's defence power but precisely and aimly to compromise any further co-operation, primarily military, and economic, political, each other and the Russian Federation, and also with China, because they have a problem with such capital. They would like us to be enslaved completely, if only they were doing business and bringing capital from Serbia, the countries that are members of the NATO Pact, and thus weakened Serbia in some future as they see us, with the abduction until the end of Kosovo and Metohija further destroying, which they tried in 1999. Once again, this is a chance to congratulate all the brave officers, and above all, members of the army, who, even then, resisted all the challenges. So we want to strengthen Serbia's army, much more segregation. Unfortunately, there is no time now, so when there is a story about the amendments I will also talk about the dedicated industry, and above all, the position of the factory of the "Staff Weapons" in Kragujevac from which I come and which I am also referred through some details. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u68015	Thank you, Mrs. Jovanovic. The word is Joseph Broz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u68016	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, with his associates and fellow Members of Parliament. Today, several security laws are in front of us that improve legal solutions, strengthen the position and role of the Serbian Army. As the most important documents for national security before us are the proposals for a new strategy, namely the Defence Strategy and the National Security Strategy of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the proposal for a decision to use Serbia's Army in multinational operations outside our country's borders. I will address defence strategies and decisions on the use of the Serbian Army in international peace operations in this exhibition. Serbia is a country that has been defined for military neutrality. Its strategic documents in the area of national security and defence are also based on the resolution of conflict through peaceful means. Military neutrality, of course, does not mean that Serbia should not co-operate with other countries and international organisations in the area of security. On the contrary, Serbia cares not only for its peace and its security but also for regional and world peace, to a world without war and violence. That is why one of the strategic goals is good regional interstate and international co-operation. Our policy of non-classification and peaceful co-existence during the 20th century is the foundation of our military neutrality to this day, because at the time of the bloc's division and polarisation of the world we managed to provide a great reputation for the world, which still today, when Serbia is a self-esteemed state. This is also shown by the foreign policy relations that we have with non-classified countries today, which is also contributed by our Foreign Minister Ivica Dacic. Honorable Serbian MPs have never waged conquerive wars, but they have always defended themselves and stemmed from this way of planning and developing our military and defence forces. In the past, and especially throughout the 20th century, the Serbian people have been affected by the war conflicts of regional, but also by the world proportions in which we have defended and endured huge victims from the Balkan wars, the First and Second World Wars, the conflict during the collapse of the former SFRY, to NATO aggression against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia in 1999. In all these conflicts our people have paid a high price, we have lost many lives, unfortunately many of our victims today do not recognize, reduce and humiliate. I'm going to mention Jasenovac to our great disaster. What is important is that throughout history we have always had a brave army that has defended the people and the state from different, mostly stronger and superior enemies. Our liberating battles have not only led to weapons but also the moral power and wisdom of our army leaders and the courage of our army to which we are still proud today. Today we live in a different world and a different international environment with many more security challenges, which requires that both our strategic documents in the area of national security and the defence of the country must be adapted to the natural environment and the nature of possible security threats. In this respect, the National Security Strategy that we need to adopt fully supports the commitment of the Republic of Serbia to the general civil and moral values, respect for its state-owned tradition, the rule of law, social justice, democracy, human and minority rights and freedoms, economic progress, co-operation and comprehensive international co-operation in the security sector. This strategy is the highest strategic document implementing in the broadest sense protects the national values and interests of the Republic of Serbia against challenges, risks and threats, security in all areas of social life. Its starting points are the preservation of sovereignty and territorial integrity, military neutrality, concern for the Serbian people outside the borders of the Republic of Serbia, European integration, an effective rule of law. My colleagues from the parliamentary group spoke of strategies wider. But I would now refer to the importance of UN international peace missions and European missions involving Serbia's military and other security forces, justifying Serbia's determination to achieve world peace and security. Unfortunately, there are many crisis areas and conflicts in the world today that countries alone cannot solve, so in such cases international peace missions represent a central form of international response to numerous conflicts, situations between states or within states. UN peacekeeping missions have a military neutral character and this is a basic prerequisite for the success of these missions and in the part of Serbia's territory, which is KIM acts as a mission of UN, KFOR and EU Eulex, which, in accordance with Resolution 1224, aims to provide conditions for the peaceful and normal life of citizens in KIM and to protect our culture and natural heritage from world importance. We know that peace and stability in this area is a guarantee of peace and stability not only in the Western Balkans, but in European peace. The involvement of our forces in multinational operations also contributes to the international reputation of our army and other security forces. And this year, we decide on the participation of our military and other security forces in 19 international peacekeeping operations, including operations in Lebanon, Congo, the Western Sahara, the Mediterranean, as well as participation in humanitarian operations, as well as civilian crisis management missions. I'm glad I can vote for a proposal like this, because from an army that was the fourth military force, we burned to the level of a hunting society. It is time to return the role of the army to what level it deserves and which it should have in this society. In that sense, I personally support this bill, and our parliamentary group will vote in favour of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u68017	Thank you, Mr. Broz. The word has a folk MP, Daniela Stojadinovic. She's not present. The word has a folk letter from Tatjana Macura. He's not here. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u68018	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, gentlemen of the Union, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I move to what's on the agenda, I would like to inform the public that the 358 days have passed that MPs of the opposition are not coming to work, for which they receive their salary neatly and thus send a clear message as to what their relationship to the function they perform is, what their relationship to the National Assembly is, but also to the citizens of Serbia. Today, however, some of them were in the afternoon session here, and some of them were in the assembly hall, and as always held press conferences, continued carrying out false, pointless accusations and fictions about Alexander Vukic and SNS officials. It is already something that is the manner and practice of that part of the opposition controlled by Dragan Gilas that every day, in every place, they place the same spent, exhausted, recycled stories of some connection between various SNS ministers, but sometimes from the ranks of coalition partners, without any argument, without any evidence and does not touch them directly by causing great damage to our military industry. They are not affected by the fact that it directly endangers the defence industry, but also the defence power of Serbia. The damage has already been done and not only "Kruška" but also to the whole of Valjev. But what do they care? All that matters to them is that every day they spin the same story, so that their media N1, "Today", "Time", and NIN and everyone else can post it, talk about it, write about it every day. The other day, they went one step further. They started printing various unsigned newspapers, various unsigned pamphlets, some flyers. Here's what it looks like, they shared this the other day, some unsigned newspapers. We all know it's Gilas' newspaper. They admitted it afterwards. So for the weekend, their peace market activists, the Alliance for Serbia activists, shared these unsigned newspapers with citizens. Even so, the citizens drove them out of the market very quickly. What's important about this story? The important thing is that they got a little carried away in their hasty, so they admitted that they were actually behind the dirtiest campaign in Serbia lately. So, we have a statement from the Democratic Party of Stars, here's this statement, on an official warrant, on an official Facebook account, the Democratic Party of the Stars publicly admits that this is exactly what their activists are saying and says, "Today about 10.15 two SNS councilmen with a few SNS activists attacked activists," it's a clear lie that someone attacked them from the SNS, the citizens drove them out of the market, "The Alliance for Serbia at the Peace Markets that shared the newspaper". So this is on the official Facebook announcement by the Democratic Party of Stars. We now know who in Serbia is involved in a dirty campaign and who in Serbia is financing, printing and sharing these unsigned newspapers, unsigned flyers. So we know it's Dragan Gilas and we know it's the whole sad team from the Alliance for Serbia. I have a question for Dragan Gilas - and where did he get the money for this paper? Where does he get the money to print this and then share it? From where? Is that out of the 619 million euros he's earned? (Alexander Seselj: Of these pairs. I agree it's from that money. Another question for Dragan Gilas - and where does he choose your Miljus to make this newspaper? What quality does Miljuš have to do with editing these newspapers? But back to what's on the agenda. Mr. Minister, I would like to take the opportunity to praise the investments made so far in the Army of Serbia and not only on the state-of-the-art Mi-35 M helicopters and the H-145 M and Mi-17 helicopters, which we had almost seen at the presentation, but also on all other investments in Serbia's military weapons and equipment. That's what I have to say, not that we're attacking someone, but only as a deterrent, for defense purposes only, in case the country has to defend itself. It is also very important that we work intensively to improve the material position of members of the Serbian Army and the standard of living of our soldiers. I am also referring to the increase in profits, but also to the resolution of housing and all other needs and problems that security forces have. We are also witnessing that almost every month the housing problem of a number of members of the Serbian Army will be resolved and that in the future, more and more housing problems and all other issues of the Serbian Army will be resolved. In that sense, I want to give you strong support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u68019	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. Now the word is Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u68020	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected officers of the Republika Srpska Army, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the policies of Aleksandra Vukic, the Serbian Progressive Party, is a policy of peace, security and security, a policy of preserving the sky, the country and the people in this area. The Republic of Serbia's army is the most important in defending the territorial integrity of our country's sovereignty, and apart from being significant in defending our country, it is also important in how important and from the aspect of deterring the potential aggressor. Serbia's army, thanks to the excellent economic policy it has led since 2014, has never been stronger than today. Investments in Serbia's Army are also high. Investment in improving the material position of employees in the Republika Srpska Army is also higher than ever. I must, above all, mention, as an additional motivating factor and additional investment in the Army of the Republic of Serbia is building apartments in seven cities and municipalities in the Republic of Serbia and providing about 8,000 new apartments for members of the Republic of Serbia. Addressing the housing issue, in addition to the pay issue, certainly is one of the most important issues and of course this government will continue with such a policy, a policy of going out to meet members of the Republika Srpska Army. I have to tell you what happened by 2012. By 2012, a yellow tycoon company, robbery, Đilas, Tadic, Jeremic, Obradovic, destroyed all segments of society, including the Army of the Republic of Serbia, as a very significant pillar of each state, and of course the states of the Republic of Serbia. I must point out that in 2006, at the time the Chief of Staff was Zdravko Ponos, otherwise a close friend of Vuk Jeremic, the 63rd Parade and the 72nd Special Brigade were abolished. They were abolished in such a way that their significance was reduced, which they functioned as battalions and, of course, mirrored the progress of the soldiers themselves in these elite units. I must point out that the 63rd paratrooper brigade was decorated by the Order of Courage, right at the time of the war in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, at the time of the 78 days of the NATO attack on our country, when we had two and a half thousand victims, including, unfortunately, a large number of children and pregnant women and five times more wounded. I must say, they didn't care about the army either, but they didn't care about the sky of the Republic of Serbia either. The sky of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the airspace of the Republic of Serbia, first relaxed Aleksandar Vukic in 2015 when he was at the prime minister's post. Of course, I must say that one of the missions of the Republic of Serbia's Army is certainly also to participate in emergency situations and to save the population in emergency situations. The yellow tycoon company even sold boats that served the army in emergency situations and imagine, sold about 900 boats, and one boat cost between ten and 15,000 dinars. It's embarrassing and embarrassing. They were, they didn't come back. They are also MI-8 helicopters, which is usually the basis for these MI-17 helicopters and whose purpose in fact was to save the population in elementary disasters sold out and sold abroad. They didn't need the military, but neither the tools, nor the equipment, because they disarmed the army and left the army without soldiers with enormous experience who participated in war activities, and of course, without tools and weapons to work. Of course, a huge effort is being made after 2014. I must say that the strategic document that has now been drawn up, as regards the Strategy for the Defence of the Republic of Serbia, relating to the security of the Republic of Serbia, is indeed done in one extremely professional, in one extremely thorough way. And here, first of all, I would point out the issue of military neutrality. Serbia is a military neutral country. Serbia itself must take care of strengthening its army, of course, not including a partnership with NATO or the ODKB, but I want to point out this opportunity, as well as with all other countries. I'd like to mention a military exercise that was in September of 2019. This is Begej 2019, which was held in Titell, in fact held in several places. There was military activity from both water, air and land. That really made an impressive impression on the citizens, as citizens have great confidence in the institution of the Republic of Serbia's Army. I must point out that we then received a donation from the People's Republic of China to 40 different tools, namely machines designed, primarily for engineering units. I will now point out that the military played a significant role in 2014 at the time of the flood, although the previous government did not leave any tools, in saving our population. Also, I must commend the King's engineering unit, which in June of the month, in the village of Sirca, in a very short time set up a bridge, because one part of the village, which is more than 100 households, was cut off from its place and from the King's. Of course, care for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia is in all possible situations and is important from the point of view of security and security. The Serbian Progressive Party, of course, will support all proposed laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u68021	Thank you, colleague. Now the word has been made by the People's MP, Muamer Bacevac. He's not there. The word is from the MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u68022	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with associates, gentlemen officers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the very beginning, I would like to highlight the importance and express my satisfaction with the formation of the 63rd Parachure Brigade, since I am from Nis, and the 72nd Special Operations Brigade. They, as we heard from my colleague who spoke earlier in 2006, were abolished by then Chief of General Staff Zdravko Ponos, a close associate of Vuk Jeremic. These brigades are the most prepared and trained rapid response brigades, especially in the fight against terrorism and other forms of threats to our country's security. They bear the greatest burden, unfortunately, in the 1999 bombing, and I think it is right to return them to our army and for the sake of the army, and for families, for all those who have lost their lives, and for those who have endured the heavy burden of the bombing at the time. The 63rd Airborne Brigade enjoys great respect, not only for Nisli, but for all citizens of Serbia. Members of the 63rd paratroopers are always there when the people, in every situation, in peace and in war. As it is an honor to be a member of the 63rd Parachure Brigade, it is such an honor to speak of them and I welcome indeed such a decision. I mentioned Vuk Jeremic at the beginning. His name, of course, does not go much with the mention of the honorable members of the Serbian Army, but just to remember the misdeeds of his and his associates. He is now one of the leaders of the Alliance for Serbia, and we see that his relationship has changed nothing to the military or to the defence of our country or to the state. By continuing to fabricate lies and affairs, the leaders of the Alliance for Serbia are just causing great damage to our dedicated industry. Of course I'm talking about Krusik, and I want to talk about the need to return now to the reputation that they have violated by placing false truths. When you tell strangers the secret information from our dedicated industry, what is it, but a blow to our country? Because of the inability to create party infrastructure, they bought parties. Vuk Jeremic bought a party from Miroslav Aleksic, Dragan Djilas bought the party, so he called the Freedom and Justice Party. But it was for nothing, too, because they didn't have the support of the people and no matter what. Besides hating Alexander Vukic for his successes, both on the party's political plan and on the state plan, they are also being led by seeking alibis for not going to the elections, because they have neither the programme nor the party infrastructure, they have any normal ideas they could offer to the citizens. They can only offer violence, fear, destruction and the street. This is why they invent affairs, and in "Krusik" and all others, and in this way, unfortunately, they harm Serbia. They have no use for that. I would tell them that instead, they can go to elections, achieve the result they can achieve and lose honorably to the SNS. The SNS parliamentary groups will support these proposals ahead of us today in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u68023	Thank you, colleague Žarić Kovacevic. The word has been made by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. He's not there. Next up is Boban Birmancevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u68024	The respected chairman, respected ministers, respected citizens of Serbia, as in Serbia and has always been a custom and a habit and attitude, again the Serb is happy to join soldiers and once again the Serbian Army is taking its place in Serbia, but also in the Balkans, a place that deserves a place that shows the state of Serbia itself throughout the centuries. The stability of the Balkans, but also Serbia's stability certainly depends on a number of factors, but I think, when we take everything into account, that it has shown in this recent history that it is just a key factor in the stability of the military, but also political stability, economic, fiscal and any other kind of stability, but yet the key factor is Alexander Vukic, and simply how much he has succeeded, and he has largely managed to restore Serbia to the right path, to bring the Balkan countries back on track and finally start to think in the interest of our Serbia, but also beyond that. He who is not ready to live with his neighbors, who does not think well of his neighbors, may think well of what he thinks of himself. I think the policy of peace, which at the moment tries and with great success manages to apply Alexander Vukic, in the long run will give even better results. The country's defence strategy is an important document. It is certainly for the citizens of Serbia and more than a document. The defence of Serbia, the defence of the state, the defence of citizens and our military stability in Serbia has always taken a high place and will always keep it. Military neutrality is something that is natural in Serbia, something that simply supports everyone who thinks well and their country, but also their family and their successors. Military neutrality, it's very easy to say, but it's not easy to perform. We live in a country that bought state-of-the-art weapons from Russia and which was the only one in Europe that did not recognise or impose sanctions on Russia along with BiH. We live in a country that will and will at the same time and is on its way to the EU. At the same time, we want to be friends with both China and Turkey and America and all countries. Especially to point out, that we do not use a harsh word, there are no small and large states, but there are faithful and loyal friends, faithful and loyal states, countries that remember Serbia from better times, and that we do not forget them when it comes to the recognition of Kosovo, those countries that had the strength, who had the courage to rise up in these difficult times against the great and say – no, we do not recognise, we are withdrawing the recognition of Kosovo that most of the countries are forced to do, shows that there is still justice in this world. What I have to say as my own personal position, and I think that's the attitude of most people living in Serbia, is that the simple NATO bombing of innocent, bombing civilian objects, NATO bombing and the consequence of that are civilian victims, bombed civilians, bombed children, and someone who calls the bombing of Serbia and civilian victims and civilian objects "a merciful angel", not 20 years ago, or today, for 20 years will not be acceptable and there will be no one to whom we will strive as a state. It is my personal position, and I think that the attitude of most people living in Serbia is also the attitude. When I tell us I mean this Serbia, I mean this army, I mean this President Alexander Vukic, we believe this Serbia. This has been shown by the latest surveys that confirm and that have put Serbia first in favour of preference, if necessary and the wishes of investors to come to a country. The state of Serbia was a black spot, as if we didn't exist at the time of these, who had themselves, and it seems very sarcastic, the cheek to call themselves the SZS. It's just amazing what an alliance they are for Serbia. If he had in mind what they all did together, but when someone says that they love Serbia, it's not rhetoric, it's just a feeling that is caressing or not growing. When someone says that they before us, and when I say those before us, you know exactly who it is, destroyed the army and destroyed the good part of Serbia, it's not rhetoric again, it's simply true. The truth is only one thing in Serbia. What is good is that the truth is known to the citizens of Serbia and, in accordance with that truth, they voted in 2012, and in 2014, and in 2015, and in 2016 and 2017, they will vote in 2020. The truth is only one thing, and in accordance with that truth, we expect support from both this army of the Republic of Serbia and Alexander Vukic and all those who work in the interests of the state of Serbia and its citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u68025	Thank you, Mr. Birmanchevic. Now the word has Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u68026	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, respected officers, we've been listening since the bombing on this site, and the topic has been present before, about Serbia's neutrality, how it's about to guarantee our safety, that we're staying away from the major forces conflict, even before, we've had statements that it's one guarantee to us that we won't be bombed again and anything not about that neutrality. No one has yet to say what this neutrality means and how it is done in Serbia. First of all, I'm not sure that's what we have in Serbia today, that we're really neutral because neutrality would probably mean a certain balance between two conflicted sides or two blocks at all, or whatever it is we're looking at. It's usually about the North Atlantic Pact and, on the other hand, the Russian Federation, and is that really so? First, the Republic of Serbia signed IPAP and SOFA agreements, ratified those agreements in the National Assembly. As far as the IPAP agreement is concerned, these are some topics that prevail there. Maybe they're not even that attached to the defense. They also deal with the issue of justice, the issue of enforcement and the issue of privatisation, European integration and whatnot, where we have committed ourselves to all this through IPAP agreements. Other agreements are SOFA, which we first signed with the United States, and in 2015, I'll remind you, and with the North Atlantic Pact, he gave very broad rights to North Atlantic troops. They can pass safely through our country, transit. They have complete diplomatic immunity. They don't pay any taxes, no taxes, no customs duties, and they're free to use infrastructure for civil or military purposes. They enjoy total inviolability, without any material, criminal or criminal responsibility. This is not exactly in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and this signing because of that position because it should probably be our limit injureable, that anyone can't do what they want, especially representatives of any military force to come in as they please. Secondly, some citizens in Serbia's territory can be with greater rights and some norms of the Criminal Code do not apply to them, which is the case with NATO troops of the pact exactly under the agreement. That's one thing. Secondly, we have today as an inheritance from some previous regimes, and we have not seen any reaction or attitude about it, the NATO Pact Office of the Ministry of Defence. If we're neutral, then should we also have the ODKB Office, for example, or the Russian Federation at the Ministry of Defense. That might be some kind of balance, and maybe it would reflect some kind of neutrality. We had this office after 2000. That's what happened when the government changed. So there's no change. With this SOFA agreement, we could see because of the situation that NATO troops have in the pact that, for example, this would be compared to the Troika Pact signed by the Kingdom of Yugoslavia with Hitler that this agreement gives SOFA more authority to foreign troops than was foreseen in the Troika Pact, and because of that three-way pact, Yugoslavia entered the war and that coup happened. Independent of motive, but that was the basic reason Hitler attacked Yugoslavia. When we compare the granting of NATO diplomatic status to the soldiers of that military alliance, which had been shelling out the country for 78 days, it was estimated various, but about 100 billion dollars of material damage, 2,500 thousand people who died there, we gave them diplomatic status, and we gave them diplomatic status to representatives of the Russians at the Russian-Serbian humanitarian centre in Nis. We're afraid of that. The government of the Republic of Serbia is afraid of it. He's afraid of what's called a reaction. international communities, or what euphemism is for the international community, which is a set of the most powerful Western countries. We can't be neutral. Some of them may be more neutral than others. What are we losing sight of? We're talking about the case of Switzerland, it could be heard, about this neutrality. They've been neutral for 200 years, and when we compare us and Switzerland, we see something and we draw some conclusions about this neutrality. Switzerland's 8.5 million inhabitants, 135 thousand soldiers, active forces, and yet they cut it short with a referendum on this figure, and by 2003 they had about 400,000 soldiers, if I'm not mistaken. A defense budget for four billion every year. So, besides having four times as many soldiers, they have 20 times the budget, and what their environment is, who's going to attack them, are they threatened by some dangers from neighbouring countries, or are they threatened by dangers from some neighbouring countries, or are we threatened by dangers from neighbouring countries? I'm not sure our environment is so peaceful. We've had experience with neutrality since 1945. The Federal Federal Federal Republic of Yugoslavia has been neutral since 1945. Did that help us break down in the civil blood conflict, civil war, whether it helped to bomb us and what we got out of it? Where our security and security guarantees were. Always those international principles that apply when it comes to Serbia do not apply to Serbia. Some other arches apply to Serbia. This was the case when it comes to the right to self-determination, so those conclusions of the Badinter Commission, when it came to the conclusion that Yugoslavia is breaking up across administrative borders, i.e. The republican borders that were created on an arbitrary basis, not by any other principle, but when they were created by the communists, they were creating what they thought was supposed to look like. And how did our neutrality help us then, the struggle of the Serb people in the Republika Srpska region? Also, the Republika Srpska was not preserved in the war of neutrality, but preserved in an armed struggle. There's no such thing as neutrality. Of course, as far as that price goes, it's obvious how much it costs. We've heard about the Serbian people here, wherever they live, and that's good, that should be supported. The question is, did you hear, do you have any idea what's going on in Montenegro right now? So, in Montenegro, the Serb people are systematically persecuted, they do not enjoy any status, all of Serbia's national identity is being suppressed, a Serb nation is being created at the expense of some kind of Montenegrin nation, at the expense of the Serbian language Montenegrin language, and now, lastly, is the creation of a Montenegrin Orthodox church, at the expense of the Serbian Orthodox Church and the abduction of the property of the Serbian Orthodox Church. In times of Turkish and Austrian slavery, the Serbian people have preserved the very Serbian Orthodox Church. It was a factor that the Serb people gathered on and helped this people survive. Now, therefore, something they failed to do, nor were they so determined to do, neither the Turks nor the Austro-Hungarians, the Austrians, is now doing Milo Djukanovic, one of the biggest Serbian traitors. How are we going to take care of that people, then, have we heard anything from you today? We've heard the general attitudes of what you think of Milo Djukanovic, we already knew that. What are the reactions, what's going on? Nothing. One more question, if he takes care of all the citizens, i.e. about all the Serbs where they live, what about the war effort for Republika Srpska fighters? Did they fight for the Serbian thing? They're here, i.e. They've been exiled here, and unfortunately today we see that some of them still live in these collective centers, asbestos settlements, etc. But we see concern for migrants and the presence of migrants in our public, because it's good in the eyes of the EU and the North Atlantic Pact, and this would be something negative in their eyes, if they cared about these people somewhere. You say, Serbs are our treasure, you said, because all Serbs, wherever they are, that's positive, we don't see it exactly on these examples. Are we ashamed that these people fought for the Serbian thing? They were betrayed and they came here persecuted, running away with their heads regardless, and now we're completely ignoring them. Not now, of course, since 1995. But there is no concern for the Serb people in that segment. We have seen here, therefore, about this neutrality that we have exercises with both the NATO Pact and Russia, etc. What's the data, how many years of training do we have with the NATO Pact and how many with Russia? This was discussed by the current ambassador to the Russian Federation, otherwise former SNS MP, where there are approximately five times as many or four times as possible, each year has exercises with the NATO Pact, rather than exercises with the Russian Federation. But we can't see it on TV or in the media. We can see in the media that everyone is running to be photographed next to S-400 and recorded when these exercises are under way with the Russian Federation, whether it's in Russia, Serbia, Belarus anywhere, and somehow are not in the focus of this NATO pact exercise, although there are many more. Is that right? We think that we will preserve our neutrality, preserve our safety by declaring neutrality. That's not true. We, in order to, and the only way to protect ourselves, is through the organisation of collective security agreements, that is, both collective security agreements. Why? We need to know who our true allies are, whether they're the ones who bombed us, who took our territory, who took part in all this, so the bloody collapse of the former Yugoslavia, or those who were our protectors. In 2015, the Council adopted Vukic, I will remind you, recently spoke of this, because of the Russians, we in the Security Council were not declared genocide and because of the Russians, Kosovo is still not a member of the UN. Nothing else. If nothing were important in the history of our centuries-old relationships, these two things would be enough for us to know who we should be focused on. What should be our goal? Our goal should be a military arrangement, a pandan with what NATO has. Anyone who attacks Serbia is believed to have attacked Russia, such as Article 5, is that, in the North Atlantic Pact, whatever state is being attacked is believed to have been attacked by the alliance. That should be our goal and we should stand up for it. Even here in this defence strategy, we see European integration and EU membership. What exactly does that have to do with defense? We may need it, Mr. Minister, to defend against European integration and the EU. They might support that, but not like this. You were talking about the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. Do you know what the losses to that agreement are? First of all, do you know how much this rocket system that we used to brag about how he got here for a few days in Serbia, everyone was chasing in there to take pictures, S-400? How much is that worth? How much is that worth? Of course it can't be bought at the store, it's a matter of agreement between the two countries, but to take it to cost, for example, a billion euros, however much. We lose about 530m euros every year because of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. So we are from 2008 to 2019 without this agreement that we apply unilaterally, so that it is only in the interest of the EU, we could already have four systems or five. It is a European integration and defence strategy that should have something to do with it. We had a fundamental problem that we couldn't afford, right, we weren't interested in potential sanctions from the respected states, etc. I think the wolf put the accent on it the most. We can't afford it, and unfortunately, it would suit us. Another thing, do you know that if Serbia miraculously fills all these chapters, i.e. Close all chapters bypassing the KIM problem, which is also unrealistic, because without recognising Kosovo there is no European integration, it must on a bilateral basis address all issues with all EU members and non-members. And with Croatia we will have to give up tens of thousands of hectares of territory, we will have to introduce Croatian here as an official language, a mandatory quota for Croatian MPs in the National Assembly and accept the official truth about the war in Croatia, i.e. The country's war towards which Serbia is an aggressor who has committed a major sprawl aggression on Croatia. I just thought, I listened to Mr. Komlensky, I thought your party was not in favour of joining the EU, at least he pointed out it several times. These are European integrations, not to mention that the Netherlands will ask Serbia to recognise the genocide in Srebrenica. Of course, ethnic cleansing of Albanians with KIM will have to be one of the priorities for us to shut down our problems in general with some bilateralally. Then how are we going to react to that when it comes to the agenda? These are the consequences of European integration. We, of course, not only in an arrangement with the Russian Federation could, on a long deadline, achieve military security, we could also do energy, as well as economic. Let's not talk about what we can take to the European Union to be competitive there on that market. All we can do is carry out the workforce, nothing else. That's the point, and that's what we need, if we care about the defense, to be our priorities, and this is how the changes that will, unfortunately, not essentially won't lead us to what we can hear from both the government and the president of the Republic every day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u68027	The word of the Messenger of the people is Krsto Janjušević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u68028	Thank you, Chairman. Respected ministers with associates, respected colleagues, Serbia has largely drawn military neutrality policy from a source called the strong dedicated industry. It's a source that's getting bigger and stronger, but a source that's the target of many hyenas and those who in all ways try to pollute it, poison it. In recent months, we have witnessed such events. Does everyone in the environment love that Serbia is growing stronger and stronger? Just to answer, they don't like it. Does everyone in the environment like what Serbia's dedicated industry is the strongest in the Balkans? They don't. They don't like it from a military point of view, and they don't like it from an economic aspect, in the part where our companies in the dedicated industry are competitive companies in those countries. Do some opposition individuals love, especially those who call themselves the Alliance for Serbia, which is growing stronger? They don't. We have an accident that among them we have those who are willing to do so and who accept that Serbia falls to bring down power and who do not have a political programme that would bring down that power, they have already simplified it with it -- let Serbia fall to drop this power. As one of the protagonists of such a policy today, we had in the National Assembly, one of the most brazen press conferences perhaps in the history of the Serbian parliament. Today, the vice-president of Gilas's Freedom and Justice Party, Marinika Tepic, has leveled the policies of Gilas' Party of Freedom and Justice and the politics of Pacolija's Alliance for New Kosovo. Today, Marinika Tepic accused Serbia of buying the withdrawal of recognition of the so-called Kosovo. I am not even sure that the extreme Albanian parties have said such a thing. Today, Marinika Tepic forgot to ask how Ivan Todosijević, who got two years because he gave his stance on Račka, forgot to ask Marinika here and what about taxes on food for Serbian children in the southern Serbian province. She forgot to ask about the many crimes of those who were released at the time of her new political paltes, notorious terrorists. To react to Marinika Tepic if someone asked her how Ivan Theodosijević is now, would he fight for Ivan Teodosijević? Would you answer with that ghastly laugh Rada Trajkovic answered when they asked Kusner about the "yellow house"? Is that the laugh? Today, it showed that Kosovo's new Kosovo policy of Bedžet Pacolli and the Party of Freedom and Justice, Dragan Gilas, is one and the same. She accused Marinika and the president of Serbia, says he is responsible for the lack of development of Serbia's military industry. Let's take a look at it on her favorite subject, on Krusik. In 2013, the Council adopted Decisions (EU) 2015/35 of 19 December 2015 on the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Union and the European Union and the Swiss Confederation on the Swiss Confederation's association with the European Union and the Swiss Confederation on the Swiss Confederation's association with the Swiss Confederation on the Swiss Confederation's association with the implementation of the Schengen acquis. 1.264 employees, in 2018 3,231 employees, in 2013 the income of Krusik billion and 202 million dinars, in 2018 the In 2013, the Council adopted Krusik paid 222m dinars in the Republic of Serbia's budget, in 2018, a billion and 497m dinars in the Republic of Serbia's budget, which means new kilometers of roads, into new schools, in new hospitals. With these statements and this behavior, this income has been cut by tens of millions of dollars. The weapons that Krusik was supposed to sell now sold by someone else and replaced her banana shorts with Bulgarian shorts by playing them on Serbia's dedicated industry. So was it Vucic or her party that destroyed 33.383 pieces of Serbian Army weapons and weapons between 2003 and 2008? We didn't have a hunting Air Force. Only Wolf Jeremic flew. In particular, we all, I believe, are glad that our army, apart from having better defense systems in the heavens and on the earth, has conditions and has higher salaries, that it has better equipment, that it has more favourable apartments that members of our army and security forces can afford. These are the same people who lived at a time when they naturally expected one authority to give them better conditions for life, and in the case of an army, a soldier expected better living conditions from a president who said – what the army wants us to do. One police officer expected better living conditions at a time when Dragan Gilas told him – I will fight to keep people like you out of work, just because he was doing his job. What's the motive of both that cop and that soldier to deal with both crime and terrorists, when the born state says he doesn't need it or to fight to keep him out of a job? It's just that I'm most pleased to be able to fix the conditions for the life of a member of the security force. Their one day, their departure, roughly, to work, the service they perform is quite different from all the other calls. They say goodbye to the family that day. Mothers and sisters sort of hide it in their own way, but it's different. It's an invitation where every day you expose your life, the most sacred thing, the most valuable thing you have for this country. That's why I prefer it when the security forces are fixing their status right now. If it wasn't for Alexander Vukic's policy, on 17 March 2004, it would have become a tradition, a trip, a hunt for everything that is Serbian, in Serbian animals, in Serb shrines. Maybe they would change the moon sometime, but the blood would remain the same, the Serb sanctity of the same Serbian. And today Serbia is no longer a figure at the international chess party, Serbia has become a chess player thanks to Alexander Vukic, and this is a big difference compared to earlier. You see how obviously things are coming into place, how Albanians are tripping more and more, and Serbia is getting stronger and stronger. More and more say they fear an aggressive Serbian economy. Our army is growing stronger, and Alexander Wolf's hand is always stretched forward. Guys, you're welcome to develop an economy. Let's go to a better future, but because of our history, because of everything that's happened to us, it's very important that behind that arm of reconciliation is a strong state, a strong army, a strong economy, and when we're in every segment strong, then we can sleep peacefully. You mentioned the Serbian army through history, and I'm going to end up with some quotes about our army. French historian Ernest Danny said: "Serbian successes are explained by the scientific supremacy of their superior officers and the moral value of their soldiers." Norwegian Colonel Karsten Angel, a participant in Serbia's World War I attack, said: "We have come with little respect for them, and we return full of admiration. We have seen a people of peaceful self-reliable, progeny, we have found the best soldiers in the world, brave, obedient, sober, patient, willing to sacrifice their lives for the country and national idea." Franz Tirfalder: “Many times the participants in the war there told me how deeply they were touched by the courage of the Serbs, their knightly behaviour toward the winners and the defeated, their endurance and their military conduct. ” Boris Tadic – what do we need an army for? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u68029	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Djuric. The word has the People's MP, Zvonimir Djokic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u68030	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Mr. Secretary with Associates, Mr. General, the honourable officers, the honourable MPs, in these late hours, here, it is now 21 hours and 46 minutes, I hope your concentration is still high enough that you will follow this discussion with me, and I will watch to be brief, because the right to tell you is a little tired. Today, when we consider the proposals of the National Security Strategy of the Republic of Serbia and the Defence Strategy of the Republic of Serbia, I want to start with, before I move on to those two main things I'm going to talk about, to say the following – that it is very important and very important that these two documents are being prepared since November 2016, when an inter-resor special task force has been established, the Office for Kosovo and Metohija, representatives of seven other ministries, there are the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of State Administration and Local Self-Government, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Business, the Ministry of European Integration. This is very important for us to know that the proposals of these strategies have been done by very serious people, a very serious working group, who has certainly looked at the completely objective situation in which the Republic of Serbia is located. From the population of the strategic environment, a special task force has carried out a risk, threat and security assessment by the Republic of Serbia, which I will say one more thing about. National and defence interests have been formulated, national security and defence policies have been formulated, national security and defence systems have been defined and key definitions have been defined, such as military neutrality, which I will also say, a comprehensive approach to security, the preservation of Kosovo's AP and the Metohija in the composition of the Republic of Serbia, care for the Serb people outside the borders of the Republic of Serbia, which is very, very important, a commitment to EU accession, etc. Now, I will return to the first of the two things that I want to stress, I will return to the assessment of the challenge, the risks and threats of the security of the Republic of Serbia, because I believe that, besides all the things that you have listed here in the strategy proposal, and here I am asking for some attention, there is something more to be seriously taken into account in the bill's proposal, I believe that you have also thought about, as a challenge, a risk and a threat, I am thinking first of all about deliberately organising and encouraging violent protests, demonstrations, blockades of institutions and institutions, the spread of unrest, riots and chaos in order to destabilise society, unarmed and armed conflicts or in order to change non-institutional power. We are witnessing that a year ago in the streets of cities, demonstrations occur, mostly calmly, but there were also violent ones. Such situations, such environments and such environments can also be misused and exploited by our enemies and that through the inserted elements that can also cause incidents with victims to cause chaos, the cause of riots, the challenge of the victim, which can later grow, be extended and no longer under control. First of all, I was thinking about, let's say, breaking into the RTS Public Service, thinking about that presidency siege, the building where the president of the Republic of Serbia is, I think about trying to break into the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia almost, the other day, by some groups led by opposition leaders, i.e. Leaders of the so-called Alliance for Serbia. All these situations could have been used to plant some of our potential enemies on an incident, to get us an individual, a group, and so on. to fire. In that chaos, when the first victim falls, it's hard to control what happens next. Well done to President Alexander Vukic, all honors to his calmness and wisdom, on his advice to remain calm and not to react in such situations. But those who protest, who use violence to achieve their goals must be aware that and on the other hand there are those who are not their equalists. Is there supposed to be a conflict between one side and the other? As long as even the President of the Republic will be able to stop the other side with his authority, not to be provoked, that is. out of revolt to do something that's wrong. The enemy can organize and insert someone who will deliberately cause the first conflict, with serious consequences, which can spread and grow into serious conflicts with victims, which cannot be controlled and which are difficult to stop. Do I need to remind myself of all those colored revolutions and how they've been happening all over the world? First it was quiet, and then somebody gets shot somewhere, someone gets hurt, someone gets killed somewhere, then the second, the third, etc., starts spreading and is no longer under control. This challenge, this risk, this threat, I hope you've considered. The other thing I wanted to say was, and I see that many speakers spoke before me, something about our key commitment, which is military neutrality. It is fully in line with our foreign policy, our turn towards the east and west alike, with our commitment to develop friendly relations with both the US and the Russian Federation and China both with the EU and NATO, but also with the ODKB, equally. The other thing I wanted to say was, and I see that many speakers spoke before me, is something about our key commitment, which is military neutrality. It is fully in line with our foreign policy, our turn towards the east and west alike, with our commitment to develop friendly relations with both the US and the Russian Federation and with China both with the EU and the NATO, but also with the ODKB, equally. We thus show in fact our determination to want peace. It's the best policy we can have right now, there's no better definitely. Any other definition on one side would cause the other side against us. Military neutrality for the Republic of Serbia is the best and safest solution that allows us to co-operate with all. At the same time, it doesn't challenge one side to accuse us of bowing down to the other or to another, and it doesn't put us in a position that because of other people's interests, the interests of other members of these military alliances, we make enemies of all our friends. It seems to me that someone, some EU member state, has imposed fear of Russia in its own interests, and now the entire EU in the Russian Federation sees the biggest potential enemy. We must not allow it, so it is also good that we are neutral in the military to force the interests of certain countries to make enemies of our friends. Military neutrality always, but be careful now, how long? Only to the possible armed threat to the security of the Republic of Serbia by some military alliance, i.e. All the way to a possible declaration of war. From that moment on, no more military neutrality. Our commitment could have been valid until then, and since then, God forbid it ever happens again, we must not be limited by the creation of new military alliances, the entry into military alliances with friendly countries, our allies, our states, and even military alliances to limit us to nothing in this or this commitment in peace. So we're defined for military neutrality until God forbid there's a war. In the war, we'll be looking for military allies anyway. Let's imagine a few countries, here from around the Balkans, attacking us. Are we really just going to defend ourselves, I said a few countries, that could be more, or are we going to look for our ally in such a situation in the war? In any case, these proposals National Security Strategy and the Defence Strategy are extremely, extremely high-quality documents, far better than they have ever been, more concise, more concise and quality, clearer and certainly, regardless of what I have said as my opinion, I will certainly vote for them. I'd just like to ask you a little question, Mr. Minister. Are you absolutely sure, as defence minister, that, say, Bosko Obradovic pays no one on the side to provoke us, to cause potential conflicts and riots? I believe you didn't. I mentioned him, there's more like it. So maybe they're paid to do that. Maybe they're not paid, maybe not all of them know that, but it's enough to buy one. Once again, you have excellent strategy proposals and I will certainly vote for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u68031	Thank you. Since there is no one registered for the word on the lists of MPs, I ask before the conclusion of a joint principled single search whether the Presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary group, or anyone else who has not used their right under Article 96 want to do so. Rules of Procedure. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u68032	Thank you. There's not much time left, there's not many of us left. This is going to be about two or three nights in some video anyway, so there is no great danger that we will upset the public or disrupt the relationship of forces on the political scene. I just wanted to, because tonight, when it was constructive, I didn't insist on the answers, or on the replicas with Mr. Vulin, I just wanted one thing, to get one more thing straight or to distract. So, which was commendable, I commended, I can't spend seconds on it right now. I think there are good elements here in these draft strategies, but when it comes to application, about the concrete practice of the current government there, unfortunately, I can't share that enthusiasm and that enthusiasm and that satisfaction that you, Mr. Minister, are showing, and I think that the example of KIM is exactly an indicator of the wrong approach, perhaps naiveness, I won't always go from conspiracy theory, perhaps to naive expectations, that someone will respect the good will and sacrifice, or how we will qualify and classify what happened by signing the Brussels Agreement. Very specific and brief. Unfortunately, Mr. Minister, I cannot say and share your opinion, quote "that our positions in Kosovo are firm". Of course, our schooling, our health care, is still being paid by the state, but many of the authorities are ours there, i.e. in the north of KiM, abolished, just as a consequence of the Brussels Agreement. So they're not solid for us. They weren't great before, but unfortunately for the last six, seven years, those positions have worsened, so it couldn't have happened that Mr. Đuric, who ranks as Prime Minister of this government, a senior official of this state as a criminal of the last arrest in Northern Mitrovica and a wolf as a spoil of war there in Pristina and taking pictures of himself, is beating selfies with him. It's our collective shame and shame, Mr. Minister. It didn't happen during those, those bad and evil and so on, the authorities that we had less in common with reason to criticise. So, some things just got worse and it's not true and that's the last thing I'm saying, it's not true that in 2000 we could have done a lot, in 2004 too, in 2008 too much and in 2012 too hard. I think the geopolitical situation in the world is changing, changing for the better, and that was more difficult in 2000 and 2004 than in 2012 and 2018. Perhaps too many have been done, oversimplified, perhaps we should have waited for this change in the geopolitical situation in the world without warring but only to keep what is ours or at least to the extent to which it can be kept without risking people's lives and fates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u68033	The word has a minister, Mr. Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u68034	Thank you very much. First of all, I want to thank all the MPs who participated in the debate, each of you has made his arguments, thank you for your patience that there are so many of you left, it's ten hours, it's not easy to stay, thank you for that. Those who cared deeply about their country raised their diaries, I guess, and they didn't participate in the debate, normally, they know it, they recognize the currency, but they don't recognise the state. It's kind of like that, that's how it works with them. But they were good at hurting Serbia and the Serbian state, Krusik, the defence industry, whatever they could do. They managed to do it, they could do it, and of course we talked about cyber warfare and security, and now you see how it works. I followed what is being transmitted, therefore, world portals, or portals special from the environment of those who kill themselves to prove that Serbia is the worst in the world, including the Shipatarian portals, conveying statements by Gilas's deputies and saying they do not quote where the source is from, not mentioning more Pacolli, but just say Marinika Tepic, a Serbian MP, said, Serbia buys recognitions, or from recognition. That's it. It's usually called, believe it or not, it's kind of a stupid term - ping pong. That's what it's called in theory. Throw the ball, then you get your ball back, and that's how you get the ball back. And that's how you talk against your country, spit on your country. Let's forget it. How do you think those people who were here in Belgrade felt and who pulled a confession? Do you think it won't get into their countries? It's already arrived in their lands. I don't know what the time difference is, so I'm giving that space. So some journalists will ask them and some opposition there and say, shame on you, how much money did you take? Then they'll have to justify themselves there and they won't come to their senses to back us up again. Because at the next vote, they'll take good care not to say again - you took money from the Serbs. And they don't care. So what, I hurt Serbia, a strong thing, let it go to waste, failed for God's sake. It's important that I hit someone else, that I hurt one of the political opponents. That's what matters. That's important. We were all in opposition. We've been in opposition for many years. Find out that we attacked our country, that that's how we extradited it to strangers. That we handed it over to strangers. We never did. None of us did that. But here, I'm looking, I've been following closely and I see how it started to spin. Tomorrow everyone will forget who said that. It will only remain a story - Serbia is buying a withdrawal of recognition. Nothing more. And the people who were on our side will think twice about whether it'll be again. Especially since we set an example for those who had doubts in the meantime. Why do they need that? What do they need that mess for? If they take the money from Shipar, no word will tell them. Because there is no Marinika Tepic at Shiptar. There is no Dragan Gilas at Shiptara. There is no one at Shiptar who will attack what he considers to be his country. No one. There isn't. It doesn't exist. We've got it. So someone's going to think and say, if they change their minds, they want to go to this side or that side, they're going to say, they're going to celebrate me like heroes, they're going to sell me, they're going to spit me out, they're going to lie about me. I don't know how we're gonna look these people in the eye right now? I'm supposed to meet after these people. Some of them should come, they need a defense agreement, they want to cooperate with us. I should look them in the eyes again and say, well, well, you know, it's opposition. He says, yes, great, very nice, it's nice that you Serbs appreciate it so little when someone helps you, I thought all Serbs wanted us to withdraw recognition. They thought that the whole of Serbia wanted the false state to move away from the UN or not be near the UN. When it's like that, it's not like that. The biggest dossing party, all it does, is make sure that tomorrow someone doesn't pull a confession -- a common sense party run by Gilas. That's what it looks like. That's how it is. That's how it breaks us. It's embarrassing. How to defend your country's position tomorrow, your Serbia, when someone will shut your mouth, come and say, "Well, wait, that's what you say." It's not our attitude. Let's not get mad at the NATO Pact now, Americans. They didn't say Americans, the Serbs said, the Serbian party said. The Serbian citizen said so. Unlike them, I won't count any blood cells. The Serbian citizen said so. It's not the NATO Pact, it's not America. A Serbian citizen said. Dot. We have no one to be angry with, except ourselves. You are not aware of the blow that has been given to our efforts by today's lie, Marinika Tepic. You're not aware. You'll see in the next days. And I wouldn't be surprised if some of these countries started washing now and explained that nothing was there. Who's gonna be the one to blame? Who's gonna be happy? Pacoli will be happy. Sheptari. Who else? Us Serbs? We won't. But who cares about that. I'm sorry it happened. Unfortunately, it wasn't something you couldn't expect. You asked if he or she was receiving money? I don't know, I don't have that information, I can't tell you it's relevant, but I can say they're acting like they're working. It's like they're being paid. Now, if they're paid, I don't know. Whether they're volunteering or volunteering, I don't know, but that's how they behave. What Marinika Tepic said today, as if she had been paid. Maybe not, maybe it's out of pure belief that Serbia needs to be done the worst, because I have no other explanation. And there's no excuse for this. There's no excuse for this. None. We're not sure, ladies and gentlemen, if we're neutral. We're not even sure if we're in the Pact. We have chosen neutrality as something that takes us away from the great world storms, major conflicts and quarrels, something that gives everyone a message that we will not be on either side, the other side, the third side, the fifth side, however many there are, and all of us are safe. There's no other security. And don't be so sure that on one side or the other in a moment of trouble, if we call them, they'll come. The question is, does anyone want to die for the Serbs? So far, history has shown -- very rarely, and only when we were, great wars, great conflicts, so we were kind of close. Don't think anyone's coming. No one's coming. Just us. Only Serbs. To be strong enough, strong enough, to be too expensive to fight. Nothing more. Don't expect any more of that. No one's gonna lose their kids. And I understand him. Would you send your children to die on some distant battlefield, some people you don't know and who you know very little? Hardly. Look how much we're fighting over peace operations, that we're going without weapons, that we're not fighting with anyone. Well, it's hard for us, so we're angry that we're sending our soldiers out of our country's borders. And how many of you, me, how many battalions would we send to war for other countries and other nations? Which we think other nations and other countries, far away, will war for us. It's up to us to fight no war with anyone, that's our fight and that's neutrality. Are we gonna make it? Well, we're too young to know, I can't tell you that, how am I supposed to know? How do I know if big in some big world, global games will define someone to sometimes attack Serbia or encourage someone to attack Serbia? As you can see, wars are already being fought on the entire planet, but not directly, but through intermediaries. They find some little nations that are going to die there. I can't guarantee it, I don't know if anyone will want to do it to Serbia, but I just know that I will do my best with the people who sit here and all the members of the Serbian Ministry of Defence and Army, with the whole state of Serbia, to do everything we can to make sure that war doesn't come or at least to be too expensive to work. Our job is to be overpriced, to say -- it's no good on Serbs, let's find some lighter target, they're ugly, they're armed, they're dressed, they're patriots, they'll defend themselves, let's do something else, let's go somewhere else and make sure. You know, they say, Serbs are hard, Serbs are a solid nation, but not to be tempted by too many, I don't doubt that our people can beat everyone and anyone, whoever comes to this piece of land has never had a good time, no one ever has, but if possible and not to come, that we do everything we can not come and that's all our fight and that's all our concern. As far as KIM is concerned, it is clear that President Aleksandar Vukic is leading the right policy. Since 2012, I have heard that we have sold Kosovo, left Kosovo, you must understand that in 2012, the whole world considered the matter to be over. Now he sees that he's not, now he's negotiating with us, now he's angry that we're not negotiating, but he doesn't make unilateral moves because he knows he has to keep Serbia, because he knows Serbia has to be there. He has to! Without a Serbian attitude, neither cosmetic nor any other issue in the Balkans can be resolved easily. They want to make a big Albania. Only we can stop, everyone else is quiet, they're talking about how they're going to wipe the borders of Montenegro and Northern Macedonia, shut up and Zaev, and Milo Djukanovic, everyone's quiet, only Serbia can say that, only Serbia looks like a factor that can stop it. Life in KIM exists thanks to the government of the Republic of Serbia, in economic terms, the Government of the Republic of Serbia maintains it. Our intelligence was violated by Resolution 1244, the Kumanov Military Technical Agreement. You know, it's very interesting that, for example, in Kosovo, we say that it violated our intelligence, and it did not violate, say, Croatia's recognition. Where do we set priorities? Or the Dayton Agreement when BiH was created and there remained to live a million and 200 thousand Serbs? Very interesting, let's not say, so now Dayton. No, but we accept reality as it is, the Dayton Agreement is what it is, we have to respect it, we have to love the Republic of Serbia, we have to respect BiH. That's right. The same goes for Kosovo and Metohija, to preserve Serbs as we know and can. Save them in every way. We are in 2012, imagine, and in 2012, what awaited us all, all agreed. Well, there isn't. Who signed the administrative crossing, cut us off, over? It's equivalent to that in Republika Srpska that someone cut our corridor at Brcko's. It has nothing to do with Serbia, over. You've been cut. Since then, alternative roads have been used, no more direct crossings. This is what you say about the arrest of Mark Djuric, the terrible crime that happened, and they arrested me. I was arrested in Gracanica, down south, not so spectacular. But the ones you're talking about before, so Bogdanovic has a personal card, for Christ's sake, a citizen of Kosovo. Who's gonna arrest you? He was Minister of the Government of Kosovo. What's to arrest him for? He was a Serbian minister. He won't be arrested. Otherwise, if he was banned from coming to Vidovdan, he did not go to Gazimestan, and Marko Đurić, and so did I, then Mark dared to go beyond that. You know, Kosovo is a territory under UN provisional administration in accordance with Resolution 1244. If we stick to the whole letter, right, we could go back and try to get some of the soldiers and cops back, but we also have to move completely. According to Resolution 1244, there's no funding, there's no Blink, there's no what happened. No, there's nothing. After Resolution 1244 THE SMART is God. Meanwhile, of course, Eulexes was introduced, and many other things were introduced. According to Resolution 1244, she's been run over 100 times. We stick to her stubbornly, and we have to stick to her stubbornly. Sometimes it hurts, sometimes it doesn't hurt, but we have to hold on stubbornly, we have nothing else to hold on to. To the extent that world geopoliticals are changing and we will be able to change our position. That's why it's important we're here. That's why it's important that we're deep down and we're deep down. As you can see, we certainly are. Don't forget, the Shipari will do anything to challenge us and to come into conflict with the NATO Pact. He knows Haradinaj what he's saying. Does anyone really think that Haradinaj can face Serbia? But to show himself as a victim, to attract NATO's protection of the pact, to say -- you attacked KFOR, you attacked the only legitimate army in KIM, which is the plan, that's the goal, that they be victims, and the great evil Serbia, the terrible attack on them, and NATO's pact will protect us. Let's not forget, they created them, sometimes they get mad at them, sometimes they get mad at those kids of theirs, but they're their kids. And that's how it is. It's up to us to be careful, careful, to walk on our toes, even though we would sometimes step on our boots. But when you see all the opportunities missed, it's getting harder, it's getting harder. That's how you do it. That's the story of a cooked frog and raising the threshold more expensive, then passing through the Martian pogrom, and you do nothing, and then they say, "What is the problem?" What right do you have to react to something less than the Martian pogrom? These break into northern Kosovo, President Vucic orders us to raise battletime, we do it, the whole world goes crazy. What are you doing? So why? They tell us – why didn't you get up in 2004? Now you've found it. Well, no one was killed. What's the problem? That's what it looks like and that's how it's done. I owe you one thing. One of the MPs asked how many exercises we have with different subjects. Here, let me tell you, so you tell me, make sure we're neutral. With the ODKB, which we haven't had a single one in decades, we haven't had any communication with them, we didn't know it existed, you had to translate the MPs what it means, with the ODKB two, with NATO Pact three, with the Russian Federation six, with the U.S. Six. What's the matter? What can be bad for our army, for our country, for our country? Of course, we have bilateral exercises with dozens of NATO pact members, with ODKB members, with China, with many other countries that are not in any of the alliances. It's a Serbian road. We don't have another time. God is high, the earth is hard. We don't have another time. It's up to us. We must remain able to protect ourselves, defend ourselves, and with a congregation that understands its army, who will vote for its army, which will help its army, we can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-24-0.u68035	Thank you. According to Article 98(4), Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude a joint general and uniform search on the proposals for acts referred to in points 1 to 5 of the agenda. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10:00 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, continued work of the 10th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 65 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 85 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly.
