ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-15-0.u54167	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fifth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sitting is attended by 87 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 92 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: MP Zarko Obradović, MP of the people, Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic and MP Vesna Ivkovic. We continue the joint, principled and unique search of the proposals for acts referred to in points 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 14 and 15 of the agenda according to the order of application for word. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the sittings were invited to attend Nela Kuburovic, the minister of justice in the government of the Republic of Serbia, with associates. We keep working on the list. The People's Messenger Miladin Shevarlic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-15-0.u54168	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Before I say a few words about the draft law and agenda points that today and at this session are under review, I would like to announce to the National Assembly the last news that was announced yesterday that Monsanto received a two billion and 55 million dollar dragon sentence in favour of the married couple who received the cancer for the presentation of the "Monstant" herbicides. This is another reason why we need different and much more careful and more responsible from the aspect of national interests to treat genetically modified organisms. When it comes to the proposed items of the agenda, I would like to say that as an opposition MP, who is an independent MP, I will support the draft law amending and supplementing the Criminal Law and the amendments to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Procedures, I do not want to support the Law on the Prevention of Corruption and the Proposal for Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Abdication of Assets, while these proposals of the points that are included in the emergency procedure do not want to be supported, because I do not think there is any reason for the Government to propose by an emergency procedure any law or decision or any act if we do business in a normal, or in a situation which is not extraordinary. I would also like to call on the opposition and draw attention to them that they have made a mistake not attending at least the debates on the agenda points they have proposed before these agenda points were proposed by the government and by the assembly majority, because they could contribute to their useful suggestions to improve the proposal of these laws on amendments and additions to the Criminal Law and other laws, as they could at the previous session with the proposal for a law on the conversion of housing loans taken in Switzerland, which I did not vote for, because I felt that it would discriminate against different categories of users of these funds. I think that this Bill of Amendments and Supplements of Criminal Law introduces something that will act preventively on all those who affect the lives of persons who are either unable to defend themselves or are particularly threatened by the situation in which they are physically. I also think, and I would ask the Minister of Justice to answer - why this proposal on amendments and amendments to the law does not cover any other amendments and additions to the Criminal Law, as it is about the statements of top state officials against the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia, because they are making a big mistake in the public, and I also don't care what the state's representatives say about the need to diverge with KIM etc., etc. The only thing I can do is to support the minister without a portfolio, Dr Nenad Popovic, who publicly pleaded against statements contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-15-0.u54169	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Bojan Bagica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-15-0.u54170	Thank you. The esteemed chairman, the esteemed minister with associates, fellow MPs, cannot begin my presentation without saying a few sentences and how we are discussing the introduction of a life sentence for crimes involving the promise of children, minors, pregnant women and powerless persons, resulting in a fatal outcome. And if nothing else was the obligation of all of our MPs to forget all the political divisions, to fight for votes and political ratings, to go beyond all that divides us and separates us and to contribute to the adoption of this more than the necessary amendments to the law together through an open debate. Unfortunately, according to these empty benches on my right, we can conclude that there are such people in Serbia, more precisely such MPs who are for the sake of personal interest, for the desperate struggle for long-lost and forever unattainable electoral censorship, for their blind obedience to the tycoons and thieves who have sold their parliamentary mandates and rented their parties, have refused to be in the Assembly Hall and have discussed the proposed legal acts with us. What political or personal interest is needed to remain from one of these sessions and what else should happen in this country in order for individuals to put common interest ahead of the interests of the personal wealth of political vultures Dragan Gilas and Vuk Jeremic. Since absent colleagues from the opposition section have shown by who knows which times they are not worth wasting time and words on, I'd say a few sentences. First of all, in the proposal to amend and supplement the Criminal Code over the last ten and a few years, we have witnessed the terrible crimes that resulted in the death of the youngest members of our society. Like the previous government led by the current Serbian President Aleksandar Vucic, this government does not shut and close the eyes of such criminals, so we must remind ourselves that MPs of the National Assembly of Serbia in a previous session held on 16 July 2015 adopted a proposal to amend the 72nd member of the Law on Police, which was proposed by the Tijana Juric Foundation, which provides time for the search for missing children and minors. According to the change, police are no longer waiting to pass 24 hours, but in search of a missing child they leave immediately after the missing persons report. Before the law was passed in police work, the period was between 24 and 48 hours, often giving criminals the opportunity not only to commit a crime, but also to move safely away from the scene of the crime. The amended member is symbolically referred to as “Tiana’s Law”. Following the adoption of amendments to the Law on Police, the Tijana Juric Foundation handed over another amendment of the law to the National Assembly of Serbia on 9 November 2017 to improve security, primarily children in Serbia. It is about changing the Penal Code, or introducing a life sentence for the perpetrators of the most severe forms of serious crimes that resulted in the death of a child, a minor, a pregnant woman or an powerless person. A life sentence would replace an existing maximum sentence of 30 to 40 years prescribed for those crimes. In addition to the imposition of a life sentence, this initiative stipulates that persons sentenced to life imprisonment for certain crimes do not have the right to parole, as practice has shown that some persons cannot be resociated and that their return to freedom poses a danger to the security of citizens. In addition to these amendments to the law, the bill contains another important paper which I, as well as my fellow MPs from the Socialist Movement, fully supports, which is the regulation of stricter punishment rules for the perpetrators of criminal acts when it comes to returnees, or multiple returnees, and it is humane to give everyone a new chance to be, so to express myself as a normal member of this society, and unless he wants to take this opportunity and commits new crimes, he deserves to be again and by stricter criteria sanctioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-15-0.u54171	Thank you. The word is from a colleague named Jasmine Karanac.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-15-0.u54172	I thank the chairman. I will, in the time at my disposal, refer to the Bill of Amendments and Rewards of the Criminal Code. Yesterday we had a good discussion on the subject of life imprisonment that should become part of Serbia's criminal policy and most of all agreed that there should be a life sentence, but there were also those who believed that life imprisonment without parole was simply not human. The public is divided on this issue, one is asking the question of humanity's rights and, as a strong argument, they characterise lifelong slavery as inhuman and humiliating. But 160,000 signatories of the petition initiated by Igor Juric, father of the savagely murdered 15-year-old girl Tijana, and all those who for the work of a difficult murder support a life sentence are wondering what is human and human in someone who dares to take away a child's basic human right, the right to life. The minimum sentence to which a child killer can be convicted is 10 years in prison. Such a verdict requires a number of expedient circumstances. These amendments to the law, a conditional discharge that the court may allow after two-thirds of the fine served no longer applies to those who commit serious murder. Although I'm against the restriction of all human freedoms, I personally think we should pass a law like this, and I'll explain why. Since life imprisonment is foreseen for the elderly of 21 years of age who kill a child or a pregnant woman, these are already formed personalities with a serious mental disorder and it is difficult, it is better to say that such persons are resolutely resolutely, for life in prison, we protect such persons from one side of them one day not to repeat a crime and I think that the only cure for such persons is to say psychopaths, isolation and never allow them to ever contact children again and to walk freely. Because the returnees represent one of the biggest security problems, changes and additions to the Criminal Code also predict stricter punishment for those who return to crime and violence. Experience tells us that a huge percentage, even according to some data 70% of returnees, once again commits the same crime, and because what the public needs to know is that by introducing a life sentence for child killers, it leaves no opportunity for returnees to rape and kill again. When we talk about returnees, I'll also say that so far at least as the practice has shown, for serious crimes in many cases, minimum penalties have been imposed. I will set an example of Olivera Krsmanovic whose brutality disgusted Serbia when she killed taxi driver Nezir Šisic for 600 dinars in 2005. She was sentenced to 40 years in prison, so her sentence was reduced to 15 and applied for parole because she served two-thirds. That same person has the possibility of finding himself in a new cab for a short time. The provisions of the Penal Code that are before us predict that life imprisonment may also be condemned by those who kill during robbery or robbery, the one who kills a military person, prosecutor, judge or police officer for the work he's doing. Life imprisonment is also predicted for the one who kills a member of his family that he previously abused. It's up to the judges to properly assess and evaluate penalties, i.e. the possibility of parole. The life sentence will be avoided by those who were less than 21 at the time of the murder, as well as by minors. For minors, it is not quite clear, because the structure of their personality has not yet been formed and there is a possibility of resociation with strong professional support and monitoring, but my question for the minister is – what is the difference between someone 21 or 22 years old, how has it come to be that those under 21 years of age are not subject to life imprisonment and older ones are? I'm still obliged to say this, when it comes to punishment, we're already talking about consequences even if the intended punishment can be a form of prevention, we need as a society to ask ourselves what we can do to prevent the most serious crimes from happening. I'll also say that the life sentence isn't precedent. The vast majority of European countries in their criminal legislation have a life sentence for the most serious crimes. As far as Serbia is concerned, I don't think we should share in this, either according to political or any other basis. We need to explain to the public why this law is important and to appeal to its adoption and apply it. In the end, Igor Juric's fight against his father Tijana Juric, a girl whose killer unfortunately won't get a life sentence, because the sentence cannot be applied retroactively, yet she received an epilogue. As Igor Juric, who had seen the autopsy findings of children who had been brutally killed and said himself that he had seen the pain and suffering they had suffered while they had lost their lives, struggled that the death of his Tijana, but also other innocent children who were not guilty or in debt killed by monsters and paedophiles would not be in vain. Many psychologists I've talked to don't believe in the possibility of resociating people like this. I will also end up with a sentence from Juric's fight, that all our children are protected, that the murderers of their peers will never be free again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-15-0.u54173	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. He gave up. ) The word has a People's MP Momo Colaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-15-0.u54174	Dear Vice-President, the presidency, the respected minister with fellow Members, the honourable MPs, I will say very briefly that our distinguished MP, Vera Paunovic, has announced the very precise and clear views of Serbia's United Pensioners Party's parliamentary group on the proposal for legislation on the agenda of today's session. At the shortest, I'll fill in with some concrete reasons why we've taken this kind of attitude. Also, I have to express the satisfaction and inspiration that I received yesterday from the honourable Member Natasa Vacic, who spoke of these laws in a way that is adapted to all categories of our population, and in particular highlighted some of the elements related to the older residents of our country. I support the views, Minister, which you presented at the beginning of this session. I think it's a good basis that we can understand everything that's specified in the laws and suggested. The laws we are considering are a very good basis for changing the situation in our society in this area. That's why I think they have to be applied to all institutions and bodies that care about it. They have established a good basis, as Ambassador Jovanovic said yesterday, for good prevention of such consequences. But I would point out that there are many other reasons, preventive measures that should be taken into account when changing the situation in society, and we have to admit that it is a burdensome situation. I'd just like to highlight a few of those. They're probably not measures for this law, but they're very important and important. First of all, where is our family as the foundation of the social system? I personally think that we need to pay particular attention to these issues when it comes to family, position, status, etc. Also, the question of schools, education and education. What measures are we taking, and what is the issue? Where are our political parties, where are their programs, where is their realisation in society and this area? Where's our NGO? Where we have all kinds of movements, associations, etc.? I especially must say from the aspect of the retirement population where our associations are, we have over four thousand such associations. Where their programmes and their impact on the situation in which we are located and taking some responsibility for the situation in which we are located, as well as various other state institutions and bodies. If all these subjects I talked about worked more and better, we'd have a lot less work to do for the organs and institutions that we're talking about today and that are regulated by these laws. That is why we need to be more, more organized, more responsible for the problems that are very large in our society, because of the reduction of accidents, murders, brutality, etc. In this regard, I think that our MP group of the United Pensioners of Serbia will insist on these things and in this respect I particularly express our willingness to support, for these and other reasons, the bill that is before us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-15-0.u54175	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-15-0.u54176	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what is happening in this entire term is repeated, and this is the adoption of the law solely because of Serbia's EU membership negotiation process. And so for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Penalty, for Chapter 23 and the Action Plan for Chapter 23. So the negotiation process and chapters in the negotiating process on Serbia's EU membership cannot be the basis for law-making, for changing the normative system in the Republic of Serbia. It should take care of Serbian society, life in Serbia and its citizens, and not about how long and what we will do in Serbia's EU accession process. That way we can do it for another hundred years. Certainly, the prospect of Serbia's membership does not exist, neither now, through 10, through 15, or over 50 years. The Criminal Code should be made in accordance with our legal system, not according to whether certain conditions will be met. And so there can be conditions as long as you want, infinitely. We're gonna get stuck in this infinity, and it needs to change as soon as possible. What's changed is, in some ways, it's parted this about the agenda, so it's kind of related. We had situations where we had over 50 agendas, where there were all sorts of things, different things, and time for one debate. It needs to be changed as soon as possible. Because it shows us how the Government of the Republic of Serbia understands the Assembly. The assembly should be the centre of political life in Serbia and the most important institution, not mere formality, where the MPs are to meet for three days to vote and then just move on and nobody cares. It's been so since October 5, 2000. It needs to be changed as soon as possible. A criminal code in every country is one of the pillars of the legal system. It should be something fundamental, generally known to everyone and clearly, precisely, contentally defined, not something that changes every year. This shows the inconclusive nature of the applicants of these proposals. For example, look at the Law on Bond Relations. The law of the '70s continues to apply, but that's because it's made of quality, which is content and comprehensive, and the Criminal Code changes every little bit. That shows negligence. The criminal code should be unchangeable, to make it clear to all Serbian citizens what is there, not in line with certain interests of the passing public or chapters or anything else to change each year. That's unserious. As far as life imprisonment is concerned, we have listened here today and yesterday to MPs who are all determined that it is necessary for such crimes that really challenge every man's contempt for the perpetrators to impose a life sentence. But something has to be done about the public's relationship to these crimes. You know, it's very dangerous when decisions are made under public pressure, because the public is often not well informed, especially when it overcomes anger over such a cruel murder is not thought rationally and rationally. Instead, a legal profession should be consulted, so those of the most important Serbian lawyers, university professors, judges of the Constitutional Court, etc., because the public is often wrong, precisely because of lack of information. Of course, no one in their right mind can say anything about a person who can promise and kill a child, and that's all clear. But it must be kept in mind that the atmosphere changes when something like that happens, because then you have the next month on the cover of all the newspapers of the pictures of those children, and then guessing what happened there, who, how and why did it, what motives, and then on the life of that man who did it. Why is that? Why are we letting that happen? Why are we making this circus? It should be taken care of to ban these media from doing so. It is not an attack on freedom of the press, there are no political views or differing opinions on such matters. It's a way to sell newspapers. And what's more important? Is it more important to have a healthier society where they occur very rarely or almost never, or to sell some newspapers, and then to use pictures of these injured children and those monsters that did it? That's what you need to deal with. As for the life sentence, the MPs are racing here to prove about their humanity by who is more opposed to the possibility of parole from prison. But it's been blinding somewhere, because it's not thinking about future cases, it's just all about this one case, these injured girls. The basic characteristics of each law should be general, therefore for general use, and not for individual cases. Consideration should be given to what a person who is sentenced to life imprisonment, without any perspective, and without leaving the possibility that one day, whether it is for 30 or 27 or not, does not matter how many years, will be put into consideration the possibility of parole. So it's not automatic release, it's just a simple consideration. That may not be allowed. In practice, there aren't so many of those cases. That is why the practice of release conditionally after those turned 27 or 30 or how many years it will be negative, so it will not be allowed. What's here somewhere, from yesterday's and today's discussion, is some understanding that's long forgotten in modern law. If someone is inhuman or if someone is inhuman or where was his humanity when he did it, what does that mean? Is that an eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth? It's a primitive right that no state knows. It can't be – where humanity was that man's argument in the debate, it can't all be based on an individual case. Think about what a person who is sentenced to life imprisonment can do at the Department of Criminal Penalty if he thinks whatever he's doing can't change his fate. He can attack a prison guard, he can attack another prisoner, he can do whatever he wants, because there's no other consequence. He's already sentenced to the strictest possible. What can such a sick man do? That's not what you're thinking. We talk here like every other day something like this is happening, so now there's a chance that all of a sudden we can fire 1,000 of these people, get them back on the street. We should have made sure that was explained to everyone. And we didn't even have a time, since only three days earlier the bill's proposals arrived at the National Assembly. Here, it's an executive relationship to the legislative authority. Three days earlier, they change the Criminal Code, the foundation of the legal system that MPs need to know everything about. What do they do in three days? So this is one formality, now someone's going to say something here, so it's going to vote, and it doesn't matter. If it is a Penal Code, then it should be clearly known to everyone, scheduled long before, long before delivered to everyone, and so all can be justified to prepare and participate in the debate on the code, not 72 hours earlier. What's on the agenda today is the corruption law, i.e. His name is the fight against corruption. He doesn't bring us anything new. These are only amendments to the cosmetic existing Anti-Corruption Act. Is that a fight against corruption, then? I will remind you, in 2012, when the first advanced government was formed for two years, it was only in the focus of all officials, ministers, etc., the fight against corruption, we will arrest the biggest criminals, we will condemn them, etc., so many of them have been arrested, many have been tried, but few have convictions for these cases. The fight against corruption if it's on paper, it won't come anywhere. In particular, it will not come if the criminal act of non-reporting property is prescribed. What kind of nebulosis is this crime of not reporting property and particularly a certain punishment? How will this prevent corruption in Serbia? And take statements from all the officials of the ruling parties in the last six months, who stole what, how much Gilas, as Pajtic, doesn't matter who everything is. Is this a fight against corruption in the media, then? So, I guess something should be fundamental and fundamental, and not a shrift like this to bring something up and then we keep fighting corruption in the media, and then we're taking out graphs of who's what they've stolen. Everyone knows who stole what, and there's no charges. How can he do that? Or maybe it's more important to make it appear in the media than to appear in court. And the crime of not reporting property and the prescribed sentence of prison from six months to five years won't change anything. From six months to five years for not reporting property, as well as for killing children at birth, as well as for raising psychoactive hemp and macaque, so to distribute drugs, and that's all in the rank of non-reporting property. Corruption is badly written in Serbia with this law. So, the changes aren't essential, this isn't done thoroughly, this is a piece of work done, nothing's going to change, and there's a need for the political will to do it, not on the front pages of the paper, not on the news, not on political shows, but on the political will of the government, to set out decisively in the fight against corruption. What happened the other day in Pozega was just a drop in the sea. Not reporting property, you know, if we're going to fight all the officials who are late or forgotten, or not doing, well, there are thousands in Serbia, people who are in public office, so not only MPs and ministers, but also in local self-government and in public enterprises and agencies, etc. Nothing will change about corruption with that change and everything will remain the same. As far as life imprisonment is concerned, we agree, of course, that something like that that happens to a child should be prescribed, and it is necessary to think long-term and to think without public anger and public pressure. You know, conformism has never done any good in any democratic state, there's no reason to change that here. It should be thought that these cases, first of all, are prevented, and it will be prevented by banning it from being written in the papers and by organising special shows when such a monstrosity happens. What can a potential mental patient see on the front page of the paper for a month photograph of those children? Well, he can only be encouraged to do something like that. Again, I repeat, it is necessary to take care of this, which should be dealt with essentially, fundamentally, not 72 hours before the meeting of the National Assembly, but so that it lasts for both the future and when the mandate of the Assembly is changed, i.e. The assembly's call and when the governments change in Serbia. It is something to remain for Serbian society unrelated to who is in power.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-15-0.u54177	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mrs. Kuburovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-15-0.u54178	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's the second day we've been discussing two very important laws, first of all there's the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Code and the introduction of a life sentence, and another important law is the Law on the Prevention of Corruption. I am sorry that my left-hand side of the Assembly is completely empty, especially given that those who have advocated and supported the "Tianic Juric" initiative in 2017, and some have boasted that they have signed a petition, today are not, even more so, claiming that the Government of the Republic of Serbia today does not pass "Tiana's Law", that these are some brand-new provisions, where parole is denied, and we could see it through their amendments, since they have sought to erase the inability of parole for murderers and rapists of children and minors. At that point, they obviously did not know what they were signing when they signed the petition, or they just abused it for their personal promotion and for fighting the ruling coalition, not to mention that in such a way they abused the greatest pain of their parents, or Igor Juric, whom they supported at that time. It is also false that the government only adopted the initiative in January of this year and if, after submitting the proposal by the Foundation in 2017, the Ministry of Justice has just organised a conference with Igor Juric, announced that it supports life incarceration and that the conference has been called a profession, representatives of law schools, representatives of institutes that have also had the opportunity to declare whether or not they are for the introduction of life imprisonment. They reiterate that without this initiative in 2015, the Ministry of Justice prepared amendments and additions to the Criminal Code where life imprisonment was scheduled, and this did not come from employees in the Ministry of Justice, the initiative had just come from renowned criminal law professors who were members of the task force at that time. So we handled reason and reason was why the Government of the Republic of Serbia proposed this law. Reason was why we listened to 160,000 citizens, it's five times as many as it takes for someone to acquire a proposal in accordance with the Constitution, and it is not necessary to ignore the fact that these signatures have been collected for just a few days across Serbia, in more than 40 cities, in bad weather, I believe that there was probably another time opportunity to make that number much larger. So it was precisely the reason, not the emotion of why we defined ourselves to accept the proposal "The Juric Foundation". The fact is that the Penal Code has been completed, but it has been completed for normative reasons, because if you introduce a completely new criminal sentence, which is a life sentence, you change the existing most severe criminal sanctions, which is a prison of 30 to 40 years. That's why it was necessary to carry out the additions to those crimes where this criminal sanction was intended to change her life in prison. Comments on how someone will behave in a criminal correctional institution during the maintenance of this sentence. You know, criminal correctional institutions aren't kindergartens, there's a special regime, and under a special regime, there are persons who are convicted based on a degree of security assessed by both psychologists and professionals who work there, determined under what treatment these persons should be. But statistics in EU countries also show that from year to year the number of people sentenced to life imprisonment has increased and by 10 years that number has increased by over 60%. Today in EU countries, you have nearly 30,000 people sentenced to life imprisonment, so I don't think they're afraid that one of the convicts is going to attack prison guards. The prison guards are therefore persons with special powers and whether a person is sentenced to a six-month prison or a life sentence there is a danger of being attacked. I would also like to point out that this Anti-Corruption Prevention Act has also been mentioned in the introduction of a new criminal offence, but I must say that not reporting property and in the applicable anti-corruption law is intended as a criminal offence, so that this law absolutely does not introduce it for the first time. Why does it matter? It's important that every single one of us sitting here today, we report the property. I don't know why any of us would be afraid to do anything in accordance with the law. It is important to see that when you become officials, when you are done with that function there has been a change in your property and in how your property has grown suddenly and whether or not you can explain whether it has been obtained by legal means. When I see reactions to the new Anti-Corruption Act, there is a question of what will be the reaction when there is a law on the origin of property in the assembly procedure. Is the Government of the Republic of Serbia ready to deal with corruption? I would say that it is and that is one of the priorities and we have shown it in the last few years, primarily through the promotion of both the MUP and the improvement of the work of the courts, the prosecution. It was this assembly meeting that was also voted by the Law on the jurisdiction of state authorities to prevent corruption of organised crime and terrorism that began to apply from 1 March 2018. In a little over a year, we can boast of exceptional results and courts and prosecutors where in a year you have over five hundred persons who are legally sentenced to the sentence of the law just for corrupting crimes where you have officials, where you have assistant ministers, directors of public enterprises who have just been sentenced to the penalty of the law thanks to the government's reaction by passing appropriate laws that have just allowed courts, prosecutors and police to have instruments to act and to fight corruption. So certainly fighting corruption and zero tolerance towards corruption is one of the priorities. The event of Saturday and the arrest of the leader in Požega is just one example that shows that the ruling coalition does not care about who committed this crime, that there are no protected ones, and I believe there will be even more results in the next period in this field. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-15-0.u54179	Thank you. Right on line, MP Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-15-0.u54180	I don't understand if you've worked so thoroughly and if you've realized the profession that it's only been 72 hours before, i.e. Three days. I guess we should have known that three months earlier, not three days ago. As for the fight against corruption, the interior minister, at one of the National Assembly sessions, when he was present and answering the questions of the MPs, showed pictures, seemed to me to be called "Hetherland", some place, allegedly robbed by Bojan Pajtic. On TV shows, we see charts, so-called graphics. The criminal octopus of Dragan Gilas what he robbed, where he made all the citizens of Belgrade sick. It's not a fight against corruption. The fight against corruption is when we have criminal proceedings against those persons. To ask 90% of all MPs and SNS officials, they'll know what they stole from members of the former regime, and there's no verdict, there's no trial, there's nothing. How's that? Are they more valuable to you on the loose, so you can fight them on television or should we already solve and punish the perpetrators once, so that we know what happens when someone does some corrupt work? At a session of the same, where the Criminal Code is amended, to standardise a criminal act in the Anti-Corruption Act. Isn't that negligent? I guess it needs to be normal in the Criminal Code, if that's fundamentally, stored, if it's already been thought about and consulted by the profession and the task force and everything else it takes, or just let's get it over with as soon as we're done with it, and then we move on, after, when there's some other pressure on the public, we'll be dealing with some other issues again, and it doesn't matter. I don't think that's clear, I don't think that's a good way to do it, and I don't really think anything with such methods is going to change.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-15-0.u54181	The word is from a colleague, Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-15-0.u54182	Dear Chairman, honourable ministers, fellow MPs, today we have, as well as yesterday, two topics that I think represent the importance of solving problems in society. One refers to a set of criminal changes and additions to the Criminal Law, which was created as a result of the work of the Juric Foundation and all the essential problems in society that have accumulated for years and the inability of the state to solve these problems, and we have seen problems in the past, they are great. I think that this is essentially, this proposal, Madam Minister, one country's debt to its children who tragically lost their lives and their parents, and calling for inhumanity and inhumanity of any international organisation in society, shows a kind of highest hypocrisy when we talk about these international organisations. The Member States of these international organisations are doing exactly what I'm doing now and long ago. I will tell you examples that there is no parole in the laws of the most developed EU member states. In 2017, by the end of September 1,831 people lie in prisons in Germany for life imprisonment, of which 1,720 men and 111 women. Last June, a woman was sentenced to life imprisonment who killed her in the worst ferocious way of nine migrants and one police officer and raised the German public about it whether it was an adequate punishment or not, but the whole society cared about defending the application of the law that existed long ago. When we talk about the fact that there is no example of parole in the laws, how it is possible that there is in the laws of one England, one Netherlands, Slovakia, Bulgaria, Slovenia, even calls this law, that is, the sentence of life imprisonment for the most violent murder, when it comes to killing children, pregnant women. Therefore, with these proposals of the law, we put our shoulder to shoulder in the legal frameworks of those countries that are the most developed countries of the EU and whatever international organisations that would want to criticize us for this kind of thing simply have no arguments. I will tell you and remind you of some examples in society, which we may have forgotten, and the Juric Foundation has not forgotten them. One ferocious murder of a three-year-old girl who was the subject of a stepdad rape with the consent of her mother in the 2005 Star Forest. A three-year-old girl died after that. The court dispute is over. The sentence received by the Belgrade court is 40 years in prison for the cruel murder of a stepfather and 37 years for a mother. Now the question arises -- when he executes that sentence and ends at 60 and a few years old, what remains for such a man, provided he gets parole, what kind of member of this society would he be, given that we have a devastating statistic, that more than 80% of the perpetrators of these penalties are returnees? We ask the question -- who are we, in fact, in society, then if we let ourselves walk free through the streets of Serbia, these people who are willing to perform these monstrous acts that we've all been aware of? And those who ran the country until 2012, in these cases, they didn't even want to talk, and they didn't want to let anything like this get published in the media. They pushed under the rug like this because they didn't want to deal with cases like this. Finally, the SNS in co-operation with the NGO, in collaboration with parents who have experienced such worst tragedies in their lives, has opened this issue, has indeed come most responsibly to address this problem and therefore the time spent to make such legal proposals has been and has been, for a year, directly from the initiative to the legal proposal has passed and has supported 158,000 signatories like this, but in the most responsible way, we have come to solve this problem and today we have essentially an epilogue of this kind of problem in society. What part of the opposition has shown is that it has signed this initiative, and then when it is due to come to parliament here and support something like this, it has shown that it is not ready to show neither political nor social responsibility nor answer to the most difficult issues that are being raised in society, but it is ready to call mothers of the victims to its protests to bring down Alexander Vukic and bring down the political system without a choice. Now, these are the results of those who give us lectures and moral lessons about how we should lead the country and how we should solve the worst issues and the most difficult issues in society, which are the questions of our children's lives, pregnant women, by those who simply strayed, who need the supervision of the state, who need the supervision of doctors and who we need the problems to recognize in society and to work on preventive. I don't want to talk about Criminal Law anymore. We thank you, Madam Minister, for being ready to say things like this everywhere and with citizens' associations and with the professional public that couldn't come out before the state came out with this, because you kept calling for European values, inhumaneness and that's just what the citizens of Serbia agreed that we should all be, first and foremost, people, and only then to talk about whether they have certain rights for those who committed the most serious crimes and how the state should treat them. So the size of the punishment and the size of the crime should be found proportionately, a proportionate measure is given through this bill and that is what shows that the most developed countries in both the world and the EU have such laws. Therefore, we are not outside those laws, but we go shoulder to shoulder with these developed states. When we talk about the bill on preventing corruption, the first thing it shows, is that the law was done with the expertise of a group of countries that are fighting corruption, which are otherwise good associates and part of the countries that are members of the Council of Europe, meaning those called GRECO and those recommendations otherwise Serbia has when we participate in the work, the Council of Europe Assembly is constantly calling on us, not only us, but all the countries to these recommendations. What Serbia is coming up with today is that it has good results in applying these recommendations and you are at the head of the ministry which ultimately deals with these issues. Serbia of 13 recommendations, 10 recommendations respected. The eleventh is practically the adoption of this bill. What we have to say today is that the previous speakers have been saying that we are now talking about the Criminal Law, that it is not put in place by amendments and additions. It should be said that the Anti-Corruption Agency did not have any mechanisms to initiate any proceedings, to identify whether one of the officials who reported his property at the border with the law, nor was it likely to qualify in a certain way, because it was not a legal option. Now there's a law. What is important is that it is working to protect the public interest, to reduce the risk of corruption and to strengthen the integrity of the people doing the job, the institutions themselves. The two stages are introduced, when we talk about the director himself and the council and the part relating to the Committee on Combating Conflict of Interest, which existed now, a new term is being introduced, and their choice shows how complex it will actually be to work on the integrity of the election not only of the Director, but also of the Council members, but also of the Council members. So, a competition under the auspices of the Justice Department is being held, but what exists is the Commission of the Judicial Academy, which conducts the three-part test. When you get a list of candidates, the Justice Ministry forwards it to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, whose responsibility is the Agency itself. When you see this one transparent way of selecting these candidates who enter the race for the director, members of the Council and members of the Council, then you see essentially that much is qualitatively done when it comes to the Agency's own institution. The provisions relating to violations of this law are specified. A new mechanism of anonymous applications is being introduced, which so far has not been the case when we say, let's say, that someone has a certain property, the official reported, and he hid the second part of his property. So there is an anonymous application mechanism that can be considered by the Agency itself and the Agency's own powers are increasing. Now, crime, corruption at all in every society is one of the most important topics, but it is also important by the citizens of Serbia. How many Serbian citizens know the term fight against corruption at all, and I think it is most important for the members of the political parties and what the SNS has come up with and indeed made one step at all in this topic is not only this law, but also the acts behind us, which is that we have not made the difference between our officials and their previous officials and current officials, but anyone who has sinned against the law has to answer, so we have not protected our officials, ministers, MPs, the presidents of the municipalities. We have now had the example and the initiation of criminal proceedings against the president of the municipality, the president of the assembly who wronged the law in one local self-government, but this should apply to all those politicians who simply break the law when it comes to corruption. Those who lecture us today about corruption, before that were former mayors and former foreign ministers, so let's say they have reported property, such as the former mayor, registered 1,624m2 of business and housing space and reported value of 25m euros. So the value of the property shows the highest degree of hypocrisy that Serbian citizens simply don't want to talk about. This shows, in practice, and supporting citizens not only with protests, but also the policy of those who buy political parties and want to return to political life in order to regain that property. The issue is also being raised for the former foreign minister who has been established working with those dealing with world corruption and world experts at these trials found that the main link for world corruption was Jeremic, who essentially worked against which major protests are being led today, which simply Serbian citizens do not want to support. It just doesn't stand anywhere to explain how you can run an NGO of the CIRS, go through this NGO of eight million euros for the presidential election, and have a legal basis for such a thing, and still get 200 thousand euros from some embassies in Berlin, and there is no explanation of all these politicians and how they have the moral right to talk at all about fighting corruption in society and to give moral sermons to us who are passing laws, that we are implementing the Anti-Corruption Act. This law and all legislative proposals should indeed be supported in the voting day by all MPs, regardless of the position and opposition, because they change many things in society, because many of them show that Serbia is one democratic state in which problems and those most difficult target groups in society are ready to solve and be prepared to talk, but also ready to support all those who are there to make life easier for the citizens of Serbia when it comes to not only the fight against corruption, not just the inflow of foreign direct investment, not just economic growth and development, because it directly affects our future, the future of our children and the politics of Serbia that is recognised in the EU and the world. In voting day, of course, we will support the proposals of all these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-15-0.u54183	The word is from a colleague of Snezana Paunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-15-0.u54184	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Madam Ministers with associates, distinguished colleagues, citizens and citizens of Serbia, we have heard in the last two days in the discussion that a set of law in the area of justice is terribly important for all citizens of Serbia. What the practice has shown or at least we can read in the means of public information is that again we have one percent of people who, unfortunately, put some politics ahead of such an important topic for the nation. I do not dispute that everyone chooses their political struggle, I do not dispute that the opposition does not attend a debate on such an important law. I don't understand it, especially if we remember how many times we've listened to those statements that say that the ruling majority is not interested in the safety of our children. The amendments to the Criminal Code and the life sentence as a kind of punishment that lies ahead of us for each of us, it seems to me, given that it's about people who don't belong to the legal profession, they don't know how to look at it from that point of view or this kind of punishment, or this kind of problem, but as a living man, when you have the possibility that someone who raped an innocent and innocent child, and then killed him, when you get a chance to even determine how it should be punished, then you really don't have a dilemma that it should be a life sentence. On the other hand, inhumanity of a decision like this is also heard in public. It is said that people need to be human in the work that they eventually have the right to some premature layoffs, but what is certainly important, at least from my corner, it seems in a way that if we have one of these monstrous crimes, then we certainly have a human being in front of us that has no common sense and common sense. In this sense, in the course of this life sentence, I am absolutely in order to treat such a disease in the way it deserves it when it comes to the medical profession and when it comes to doctors, to provide assistance – yes. To return to the human community, to create an opportunity to repeat his crime in perhaps a more cruel way would be more than inhumane. What else has left room for such a discussion? This is the fact that we are trying to show this country and this government as inhuman and beyond Europe, and that's what counterpart Tomic was talking about. We have examples of this kind of punishment being treated in most EU countries. However, what is very important, and even if that is not the case, Serbia is the country whose greatest wealth is children and as one nation at all, you have to take care of who is weak and who is unable to defend against even some minor evils, let alone these phenomena. What's even scarier is that years behind us say there's been an increase in these murders. We have been informed perhaps excessively, and here I will agree with a colleague who spoke before me that perhaps the publication of media such crimes can and inspire some unbalanced, simple, cases of psychics who may be inspired by such a publication. What is very important is that when a Juric foundation simply results in an immeasurable pain that the Juric family experienced in the tragic fate of their small Tijana, sits down and writes what would be considered an adequate punishment and suggests it to the state with 160,000 signatures, then I don't think there is a single MP who is a representative of Serbia's citizens who can afford a luxury to even interpret whether it's okay. I am saying this primarily as an MP in parliament who is the representative home of Serbian citizens. So, I regret that there are no colleagues with us who represent the opposition to support such a law and show that Serbia is above all. This way every statement of this guy will remain a letter on paper and open space that they are absolutely not trusted in these political attempts to profit on all subjects, including this one as one of the most difficult ones. The Socialist Party of Serbia, or MPs of the SPS, will absolutely support amendments to the Criminal Code, because we are a party that is primarily responsible for our country and our children to whom we owe a quiet space for life and for growing up and for turning into healthy people who will continue tradition and nation and be the future of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-15-0.u54185	Thank you. The word is from a colleague, Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-15-0.u54186	I thank, above all, the MPs who took part yesterday and today in the debate on the draft law and amendments to the Criminal Code, as well as the draft law amending and supplementing the Criminal Procedure Act. Why did I single out these two agenda points from really numerous points that we have in front of us to discuss, of course, with these two proposals that we're going to discuss today and tomorrow? Because, of course, the greatest public attention of Serbia, but also in our political frameworks, has certainly sparked a proposal that, that is, two amendments and additions to the laws that now sublime a request that originally started from an unfavorable event, which is the murder of a minor Tijana Juric, who began with brutal rape and, of course, we know that this has tragically ended with the loss of a young woman's life. This initiative was launched by Father Tijana Juric, and she saw the light of day when she was given the strength of over 160,000 signatures by the citizens of this country who are demanding that the perpetrators of the most serious crimes get a life sentence in prison without parole when it comes to brutal rapes of children, minors, pregnant women, as well as powerless persons. There's been a lot of controversy in the public, on the one hand, why this procedure took so long to come here to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, that we make a final decision on behalf of the citizens that we represent precisely because of the seriousness of the situation and because of the seriousness of the proposal that we have here today, which is to put in place a life sentence for the perpetrators of these difficult acts. That decision is not easy at all because we have simply been divided in public into people who seek justice for someone's children who have been killed and on that other part of the public, we can say, let's say, let's say, professionally maybe even responsible, and we can say and burdened with our profession that this measure is very difficult and that the measure of life in prison threatens one's human rights. The question mark today stands only in the very small part of the public of Serbia because if we are talking about human rights being abolished here and asking us for Europe, on the one hand, Europe has allowed almost all EU Member States to have a life sentence without parole for such serious crimes. On the other hand, a moral question arises in front of all of us, even those who still have a dilemma whether to bring a life sentence or not, didn't the right to life have a victim? Isn't it taken away from her by one of the human rights, which is the right to grow up, the right to live and have a future in front of them that someone in some wacky crime has at some point taken away from them? So, on this subject, we can really talk a lot, but justice applies to everything, human rights apply to everything, so it's both human rights and that you have a normal life if you're a child, if you're a pregnant woman, if you're an powerless person, if you're a teenager. This law, as long as it does not appear here in front of MPs, until we have a final solution and an opportunity to vote, to support Tijana's father, to support 160,000 Serbian citizens who, by signing this two-and-a-half years ago, asked us to try and, I say, we won't be able to stop this punishment preventative one once to commit a serious crime, but to try to sharpen our country's criminal policy so that we never again get to have someone who rapes and kills a child get some kind of penalty minimum because we've now increased the sentence, so it will be impossible or the prosecutors will be able to seek less punishment, nor will the courts be able to rule less than that prison minimum. We'll open up the possibility that such monsters, we'll say it freely, because we represent the citizens here, we don't represent the sole profession here, we're neither some judicial academy nor we're a barrister, we represent ordinary citizens here. We must say that they are monsters and that they are monsters who, regardless of what motives, disease, or how it's already happening that someone is raping and killing, we must be on the side of our citizens and confirm our discussions and our final votes here in Parliament. Believe me, Vox Populi, Vox Dei, it's not just a saying that sounds good, but really, for some time, in many cases we need to listen to the voice of the citizens, what they want from us and do here, regardless of our political differences. That is why I am very, very proud of Parliament, MPs who support the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but also opposition MPs who participated and participated here in the debate, regardless of how much they disagree with the government's proposals, which listen to the voice of the people and will support this proposal. Yesterday, at a press conference before the beginning of our session, I invited all Members of Parliament, all 250 MPs in this House, who claim to boycott part of the work of this session, in fact, of this session of this session, and do not want to go into the hall, to have dialogue with us on different topics, to come here, to talk about one topic that has no political and party boundaries, to talk about the subject on behalf of all citizens of this country, to hear their ways of thinking, to speak clearly and loudly here about what they are and when they once signed, and how sincere they were in their mere statements in the media today that they support Tijana's law by speaking here in support of Tijana's law and, of course, not only to speak in favour of Tijana's law, because children who have lost their parents and all their parents today who fear what can happen to their children today deserve one little effort for a few seconds and to attend the green light for this law. What happened yesterday after my public invitation that MPs who spend part-time in tents don't want to participate here and talk to the minister of justice, with us here in parliament, agree or disagree with this law? They were very happy to make statements to the media, but they didn't want to share their views here with the public and with us. There are very interesting statements today and attitudes and it is not exactly a black white picture, as it seemed at first, that all MPs support this law, but they do not want to enter the parliament here, because I am the chairman, or I do not know, the provisions of some Rules of Procedure that they have adopted in time, are now valid or not valid. The easiest way to find some trivial laws is to stand above one really important decision, and we can say historical ones, because one day, when the parliamentary life of the Republic of Serbia is studied, this assembly of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has adopted laws in co-operation with Serbian citizens and imposed a life sentence for perpetrators of the most serious crimes. And what's harder than raping children, raping teenagers, raping a pregnant woman and an powerless face? What's harder? Let's all think about it together, if we were to single out, what would be harder than what I've just said and what are we trying to correct with a certain legal solution? We will enter history as a cry that has removed one injustice against the victims. We cannot return this decision to their lives, but we will do something good for the future of children and for the fears of their parents in the 21st century when a child lets go to the streets and fears what will happen to that child, and if it does, will the perpetrator have to be happy for some one, two, three years again on the streets of Serbia and whether the danger threatens the same maniac again to some other children. And when you make a decision, think about it. I do not have a moral dilemma such as MPs who have not accepted an invitation to come in here today to talk to all of us and with the public of Serbia, giving their views whether to support the 160,000 Serbian citizens who have signed the initiative. Count on it to be millions of people who haven't had a chance to sign or don't sign any initiatives. Millions of people support this initiative, believe me, and I don't have a dilemma about whether it's more important to me or whether I'm protecting human rights monsters and maniacs who rape and kill. Even though I'm a lawyer, I'm a lawyer, but I would morally refuse to defend someone who committed such a serious crime. I say, those MPs who have spoken to the media, have made some kind of statement that they have moral dilemmas and are very big advocates and protectors of human rights conventions, and who is not, I don't know what we don't protect human rights by saying that someone has to spend life in prison for what he's done, and maybe it's their moral dilemma that we should have here in Parliament clearly, loudly, in front of cameras in direct television to say that they have a moral dilemma about whether to punish a monster with life imprisonment or to defend the views of the Council of Europe on these issues. Thank them for speaking to the public and for secretly saying that not all of them are for the adoption of such a law, and if it doesn't make it easier for us, those attitudes. Ms. Aleksandra Jerkov said that in their MP club, therefore, the DS MPs' club are not the same attitudes for the adoption of this bill, Tijana's law, and that they are breaking precisely on whether to protect human life, whether to protect victims and to prevent them from acting on criminals and maniacs by knowing that they will be able to get a life sentence for the crimes they committed or, she says, some would refrain from voting or would vote against, because they would rather protect the perpetrators of criminal acts, so that they would give them some piece of hope that they could one day get out of jail. And that's okay thinking, it's important to bring it out publicly, not to some journalist with confidence. But you have to think about it. That bit of hope they'd give the monster who once or twice killed, raped a child, a pregnant woman, a teenager, and an powerless face, but that piece of hope no longer exists for whoever the victim was, who was killed. So, the victim doesn't have that bit of hope, so I would still, regardless of these moral dilemmas of DS, invite their MPs to come here and vote for this bill, because if they think like this, the moral dilemma will never have again. Moral dilemma is the easiest thing I can do to get them into the role of parents, to get into the role of parents who let their child go somewhere with their friends, play or talk or go to a bar, a discotheque, and send that child to you and that child never comes back to you again, ever again, because at that moment some monster set off to meet the life of your child. He hit him in the car, raped him, and then he killed him, and you don't have a moral dilemma anymore whether you support Tijana's law or give a piece of hope to a monster that one day he can go free. Furthermore, what Sergey Trifunovic says, we will skip it because he is not an MP, and we will see if he will one day get a chance from Serbian citizens, so I will not comment on his views. We are going to the MP Bosko Obradovic, former head of Parliament's Dveri Group, who no longer exists, but he is an MP and, shockingly something, someone who has been a long time, building his political career, has focused precisely on some kind of protection of children, family values, etc. Now Bosko Obradovic tells us, who want to support Tijana's law, that, with the usual insults, we are all doing some marketing tricks here, etc., which is hard for me to comment on when it comes to this extremely difficult subject, says that it is problematic for him, in this law and that it is not in line with European practice, he now knows the case law of Europe, is not a problem, completely eliminating the possibility of parole. There, Bosko Obradovic, leader of the party, for which we do not know whether or not there is any more, someone who has advocated family values is now thinking about it, European, of course, European values now, whether the maniac who killed someone's child should be allowed to have a parole institute in front of him and that he hopes that one day he will go free. And everything else is politics on his part, because apart from insulting nothing else that made sense about the bill had to say. He doesn't even have the courage to go into the O.R. here and repeat that he won't support Tijana's law. I think it's politically fair and correct enough that I'm the only MP who now names me and I'm really sick of this political correctness of ours not to expose here the hypocrisy of MPs who have been saying for two and a half years that we should pass Tijana's law, so they attacked the Government of the Republic of Serbia, they attacked me. I'd rather not show what status she had and respected colleague Dijana Vukomanovic why I'm sending a bill to the government of the Republic of Serbia, an insult to my account, etc., and where is she now? Where is he now to repeat his position and say that he will vote for Tijana's law? So we need to strip the matter, say that those who have refused to return here to the Assembly for one single session, talk about the Tiana law, try to improve the amendments, if we have to, to show by our vote that we are unique in the defence of children's rights and the right to live in this country unanimously, that we who are here on behalf of Serbian citizens, and not on behalf of Serbian citizens, and I don't know what kind of political interests, then they have put as of today and as of yesterday a huge question as to how honest they were at all. How sincere were they at all, or was it just one instrument to attack political opponents and stick to the labels and to the president of the state, and to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and of course to me inescapably? I come to you as someone they just can't pass, not in criticism, but in glued labels and insults. Of course, the last one I quote is certainly an MP from Tatjana Macura, who often speaks here about the need to protect women's rights, to protect the rights of pregnant women, to protect children's rights, which she advocated in the media, though, for the adoption of a bill that would cover part of the Tijana Juric Foundation initiative. I say part, because one part two years ago we immediately adopted, right away, to tell the ignorant on social networks, those MPs who don't even know the laws that go through the Assembly. We adopted a part of Tian's initiative two years ago. Now. As soon as it showed up, which is that we shortened that deadline to search for a missing child, and now, on application, the MUP is leaving in search of a missing child, and not as early as 24 or 48 hours, I'm not sure, 24 hours, and we adopted that. Let me explain. This is the second part of the initiative, and this is what we're rounding the whole proposal of Tiana's law. She says this - if we turn off our emotions. I can't rule out emotions, I can't really rule out emotions, because the parents of children who have lost their lives in such terrible crimes don't allow me, I don't have the right to exclude emotions when I know that a young human life has disappeared in such terrible events, terrible circumstances. She wants us to listen to the word of the profession. We heard of course in public debates, two and a half years, the word of the profession, that it was a legally impartial and civilized step back. It's a step back, passing Tijana's law. Therefore, I will get the strength, because I am an MP and the first among the equal presidents of parliament, to invite them once again to come to discuss this law, to take these views that they are taking outside of this room, to say here publicly that they are against Tijana's law, to hear it from the citizens of Serbia, to hear it as their colleagues, to hear it from the parents of lost children, and to hear it from parents who every day worry about their child going somewhere alone. Let them come and do it again. Of course, I call on them to come on the day when we are here to vote publicly and to show whether they support Tijana's bill, whether they support the introduction of a life sentence for rapists, murderers and, let me say to the common dictionary, for monsters who walk our streets. That's why I invite you all here today to have no moral dilemma and to vote yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-15-0.u54187	Thank you. The word is from a colleague of Studenka Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-15-0.u54188	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, I personally believe that most of those who follow the transfer of these sessions and those who have heard in the news that we are discussing the Bill of Amendments and supplements of the Criminal Code, and that the most important change is the one relating to the prescription of life imprisonment for the most serious crimes, accepts this proposal with approval. The reactions of the people I spoke to are the shortest said – that is justice and that is justice. Therefore, a life sentence for crimes against life, crimes against half-freedom is prescribed, in cases where the death of a child, a minor, a burdensome woman and an powerless person have taken place as a result of the execution of the act. It is also predicted that persons sentenced to life imprisonment for certain crimes do not have the right to parole. A life sentence should be fully replaced by an existing prison sentence of 30 to 40 years, which is prescribed for serious crimes covered by existing rules. For these acts, there is a possibility of requesting parole after 27 years of imprisonment. However, there is no parole for crimes covered by the Tijana Juric Foundation's initiative. These include the most severe forms of crime – heavy murder, rape, promise of an powerless face and promise of a child, when they were committed to a child, a minor, a burdensome woman and an powerless person. The penalty is completely fair and proportionate to the weight of the work done and most importantly, there is no obsolescence in these crimes. Statistics have clearly shown that the number of returnees in the execution of the most serious crimes, expressed in percentages, is even 80%. The best way to prevent human life from being protected is to punish a prison for life without parole. In criminal acts for which there is no parole, I see the penalty exclusively from the corner of the human piety towards the victims, and I can't make myself think any deeper about whether the punishment for the perpetrators is human, because I believe that such atrocities is quite appropriate for the punishment that the perpetrators are permanently deprived of freedom. A ban on sentence of life in prison has been suspended for persons who have not spent 21 years of their lives at the time of the crime. I'm guessing those faces are thought to be resociable. Also, the sentence of a life sentence is not pronounced in cases where there is some legal basis for easing or releasing a sentence, such as Overstepping the necessary defense. So, I don't have a moral dilemma, I fully support these amendments to the law as well as most Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-15-0.u54189	Thank you. The word has an emissary, Aleksandra Mike. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-15-0.u54190	I thank the president. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Minister with Associates, is today on the agenda of a set of criminal laws that will introduce changes in two very important areas, in the field of fighting corruption and in the area of tightening criminal policy. When we talk about a new anti-corruption law, we should refer to the fact that there is a Anti-Corruption Anti-Corruption Agency Act, but in this law there was a shortage, which is why it is necessary to bring the paper into this law, and the old law, even though it was only about the Anti-Corruption Agency, has regulated some preventive measures and it is much more comprehensive in the new Anti-Corruption Act to introduce those measures than to regulate it by the previous law. When we talk about the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Procedure and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the confiscation of property resulting from a criminal offence, it is in some way merely a practical alignment with the Criminal Code of 2016, i.e. with a head referring to criminal acts against business, and these are laws which have not taken up the most time to date in the debate today and yesterday. In my view, this is in a way and normally because the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Code should hold the utmost attention of the MPs. The law is passed on the Tijana Juric Foundation initiative, which was signed by more than 158,000 people. This is three times as many signatures as it takes for an initiative to be found before the MPs, which speaks of the importance this topic should have for us and when discussing the law and the importance of this initiative, when voting, or when making a decision on the adoption of this law. This initiative sought, or required, the most severe crimes such as rape, the promise of a minor child, the promise of an powerless person, and the promise of abuse of a position when there is a child's death, a burden on a woman or an powerless person, to be punished by a life sentence without parole. It should be noted that the working group, which dealt with the possibility of a life sentence, considered the possibility of a life sentence as early as 2015, but of course the Tijana Juric Foundation was crucial to find this law on the agenda today and yesterday and the next days. The proposer of this law goes one step further, so the most serious crimes and the most severe forms of serious crimes are also envisioned a life sentence with the possibility of parole. First of all, this is about the criminal part of the murder of top state officials, genocide, terrorism, the use of a deadly device and other crimes. An analysis of criminal policy in Serbia's environment, as well as other countries in Europe and the world, concluded that Serbia has a very mild criminal policy, and therefore supports the introduction of more criminal penalties – unauthorized production and placing on the market of intoxicating drugs and allowing for the use of intoxicating drugs, for the killing and abuse of animals, crime - domestic violence, to prevent officials from performing official duties, assaulting an official person. I also support a stricter criminal policy for returnees and multiple returnees. In one part of our public, these are primarily individuals and NGOs, it is said that the introduction of life imprisonment is contrary to European values and contrary to some European laws and norms. But these are the same individuals and NGOs who said months ago that parliament and the government would not put Tijana's law on the agenda. Today, when we have it on the agenda, these individuals and NGOs are criticizing what this law is on the agenda. In defence of the law, it should be noted that the sentence of life imprisonment has not been invented by Serbia. The life sentences are Austria, Switzerland, Germany, France, Finland, Italy and other countries. And life imprisonment without parole is being punished by Lithuania, Malta, Belgium, the Netherlands, Hungary and other countries. This shows the hypocrisy of those who criticise today's agenda, and when they talk about the consequences that life imprisonment will have for the perpetrators of crimes, they should first and foremost consider the consequences that these crimes leave on both the victim and her family, the environment, friends and the whole society of Serbia. Every man, and especially us who deal with politics, should be socially responsible and should side with the powerless and weaker, and these are certainly children, pregnant women and powerless faces. That is why in the voting day, I will support this bill, as well as all others on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-15-0.u54191	Thank you. The word is "Andrian Avramov."
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-15-0.u54192	The Honorable President of the National Assembly, the Honorable Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is on the agenda today. Since today we have a draft law on amendments and additions to the Code of Criminals, Article 44a, which reads – for the most serious crimes and the most serious forms of criminal acts can also be prescribed for life imprisonment. It is important to point out on this proposal that it covers the most serious crimes, for which the amendment of this article provides for a life sentence for life imprisonment. Unfortunately for us, and for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia today, we are talking about the case of the girl Tijana Juric, a child over whom a monstrous crime was committed. After her terrible murder, an avalanche of negative comments and reactions stemmed from a petition with over 160,000 signatures, so today we have a bill in front of MPs in parliament. Personally, I believe that the crime mentioned and the other crimes committed in one way or another must be sanctioned by the strictest criminal provisions, and their perpetrators brought to justice. Whoever gets a life sentence is certainly determined by the court, according to the division of the authorities in legislative, executive and judicial matters. I would point out, as a mother, that a crime like this is something scary and deserves the maximum sentence of prison, in this case life imprisonment. There is not enough words to describe the pain and suffering of parents, family, friends, because of the tragic loss of a loved child and we as a society have recognised pain and suffering by proposing to amend the Criminal Code. Our children can't get anything back, nor will those children experience the true joy of life. I therefore believe that this law can affect potential perpetrators of criminal acts. They disputed all our effects continue to dispute, but I believe that there is a need to support the stated addition of the law and the protection of our children and their future. In my presentation as a folk MP, I would like to highlight the unselfish support of President of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Vukic, Prime Minister Ani Brnabic, Justice Minister Nelli Kuburovic, who recognised the importance of the proposal on amendments and additions to the Criminal Code, which is a priority today in front of the MPs. All of this, as well as taking care of all of our citizens, the opening of factories, the inflow of new investments, is proof that our president, Mr. Alexander Vukic, is selflessly caring for every resident of our country. We are witnessing that today's state budget has been a significant surplus since the Serbian Progressive Party is in power. It has been built and reconstructed more kilometers of highways than in the last 30 years. I can freely say that I am proud of the number of foreign investments, of which I would point out the most significant ones, which are: "The Irons" Smederevo, RTB Bor and many others. Dear citizens, we deal with the facts, presenting the visible results of our policy and policy as our president, Mr. Alexander Vukic. In this way, we continue to fight and work committed and teamedly, all in order to make Serbia better and more successful. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-15-0.u54193	Thank you. The word is Ljiljana Malusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-15-0.u54194	Thank you, President. Dear Madam Minister with co-workers from the ministry, ladies and gentlemen MPs, today we have a set of laws ahead of us, however, I will talk about the law on amendments and amendments to the Criminal Code. It's a difficult subject, a painful subject, but I want to talk about it. Unfortunately, a few years ago, the murder of a beautiful underage girl, Tijana Juric, took place. The girl was raped first and then killed. Her father reacted. I would like to pay my respects to this man, because he had the strength to deal with the pain, and then to collect 160,000 signatures from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia so that Tijana's law, or the Law on Amendments and Rewards of the Criminal Code, would be before us today. It is difficult for me, too, to have a dilemma, like my esteemed colleague and speaker, Mrs. Maja Gojkovic, who says that monsters, rapists, murderers of children, pregnant women, murderers of powerless persons should in no way be punished for 20 or 30 years, but a life sentence. After all, in 2015 there was controversy, a working group was created, so before this terrible event, however, the public in Serbia was divided -- someone was to introduce life sentences, someone against. I'm about to impose life sentences, always express my position, my opinion, because someone who rapes children, who rapes pregnant women, who rapes innocent, unprotected persons, should end up in prison while he's alive. I'm not about to reduce punishment and parole for monsters like this, because I'm sure someone who does this kind of crime will, when they come out, do the same thing. It should be said that the working group was created on December 31st, Mrs Kuburovic called and created a working group in 2018. There were experts in the group, there were judges, there were prosecutors, and there were also people from the Institute of Criminology, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of the Interior, as well as the Ministry of Health. So, all valid institutions, experts who adopted all proposals from the Tijana Juric Foundation. I hope this law, I have great respect for my father and drink to this child, and not only for her, but also for the mass of girls, but also for boys who have been raped and murdered, boys and girls who have been kidnapped and killed, and I have no dilemma that this kind of punishment should be supported. After all, we are not the only ones in Europe, we are the one who knows which country will adopt this law, which are primarily developed countries - Germany, Switzerland, Austria, Finland, Slovenia, and now Serbia. Some countries do not have a leave, and that discharge meant that if someone gets 30 or 40 years for the most difficult work, after 26 years and eight months they get pardoned. Now it's been moved for 27 years, so you get pardon, except in these five cases I've listed. But personally, I'm not up for it. I'm not sure anyone who mutilates a child, who kills a child, gets out, I'm not sure he won't do it again. It's not just about humanity, it's about empathy, it's about protecting our children. There was almost a study where every, unfortunately, fifth child, I was horrified, in some ways abused by the family, by neighbors, by friends and so on, it's a cancer of society, it needs to be eradicated. The second newspaper in this law is that the severe punishment for relapses is for people who have already been in prison and committed serious crimes. The fines are sharper and that's good. It should also be pointed out that we have expanded, that the diapazon of this law is wider, so punishments refer to life imprisonment to preventing terrorist financing, or terrorists, also to people who deal in drugs, especially to children, but also to those who cultivate these drugs. Also, abuse of a complete family, women, children. We've extended the law, and what I like is that the law in certain situations doesn't go out of date, which is when it comes to pedophile, so it's never going to go out of date, and when it comes to terrorism. Serbia is a human society, no matter what it says, and those who are not here now say very much that this law should be passed. We are proud to discuss him today and we will adopt him. I'm just surprised why they're not here today. Why is it so difficult for people to take their stand? Mine's like this. Maybe it's someone else's, but it needs to be taken out. The Serbian Progressive Party is working for the benefit of our children, for the benefit of all people in this country, so it is fair, if nothing else, if you receive a salary, to come here and say - I am for or against, as most of our MPs do. Milorad Mircic: They are matchmakers. Whatever they are, they need a little empathy, a little humanity and dignity. As long as you're getting paid, come and tell me, we're in, we're against it. All options are in play. This is the day we're talking about protecting our children, protecting the legal order. I could do a lot about kids who got hurt, but really more, I think... . I can't wait to vote for this law and this kind of thing will never happen again, and these villains, monsters, who ever think they can harm children, let them think hard, if they're able, if they're not difficult pathological personalities, with severe disorders, see what they're going to do with themselves. It's not easy being in prison all your life. Thank you for your attention. The Serbian Progressive Party will support all proposals for these laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-15-0.u54195	Thank you. The word has an MP, Dubravka Filipovski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-15-0.u54196	Dear Presidents, respected Mrs Kuburovic, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, we are still discussing a set of very important judicial laws yesterday, but there is no opposition today, no colleagues with whom I fought in 2013 for the adoption of the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Violence against Women and Children, so to speak. Istanbul Conventions. If that's the message that the fight is against, I thank the opposition part that's here, I've been thinking about colleagues who aren't present. Is this a message that the fight against violence against women and children is no longer our common goal, or are they under the influence of various tycoons or political powers in their parties, is a question that they will sooner or later have to answer to Serbian citizens, but it may be another problem, they are not able to stand here today, because some of them, such as counterpart Bosko Obradovic, physically attacked Parliament Speaker Maja Gojkovic, were the most horrifying Serbian Prime Minister Ana Brnabic, there were also physical attacks on committees in the Belgrade City Assembly, journalists and many women, unfortunately from the opposition representatives of this high home suffered violence. I want to remind in this high house that preventing violence against women and children is a duty and a duty for each of us not to close our eyes to violence. This topic is highly ranked in the SNS, and the state has had the strength to face this problem in the right way of adopting both Maria's law and Zoe's law, Tijana's law, the Law on the Prevention of Family Violence, the Law on Free Legal Assistance that we adopted in November last year and which is due to enter into force this year. It is very important that when we passed these laws we co-operated with many NGOs in this area, with the Autonomous Women's Centre and with the "Tijane Juric" Foundation. Amendments and additions to the Criminal Code provide for the strictest criminal policy for violent criminals who have committed the most serious crimes, or life imprisonment for child killers, without parole. As many of my colleagues and colleagues have said, 158,000 citizens have signed a petition of the Tijana Juric Foundation and demanded the application of the Criminal Code, and we can find the reasons for the adoption of this law in practice, because the verdicts made by individual judges in this area are indeed scandalous. Statistics have shown that our criminal policy is mild and that in basic courts probational convictions are imposed, which directly means that whoever committed this kind of violence, if paroled, can commit this kind of crime again. With the strengthening of criminal policy and the adoption of a set of laws to prevent violence against women and children, we have achieved a very important goal. We encouraged women to report violence and to seek institutional protection for the abusers. It is very important that this form of violence, that every form of violence be condemned, that the whole society be involved in this problem, that we realize that violence knows neither the economic, nor the social boundaries, that it threatens the dignity of every woman and every child and that it destroys the family. In addition to tightening the penalties we have taken with the bill, it is very important that we work constantly on prevention, create a culture of non-violence, act quickly and improve multi-sectoral co-operation, raise educational roles in schools, include teaching content against violence for children from the earliest age. It is a very important role of the media in this area, there must be no tabloid reporting and, of course, the constant raising of citizens' awareness that violence destroys the family and destroys the whole society. If all these steps that we've talked about are taken both in the next period and if they're taken care of, I believe, I firmly believe that as a society, we're going to deal with this problem. As chairman of the National Anti-Corruption Branch, I would like to say a few words in this House regarding a new law on the fight against corruption. It is very important that this law is in line with GRECO, that we continue to implement the National Anti-Corruption Strategy Action Plan, which is in force from 2013 to 2018, and I believe that in the coming period we will discuss in this high home and new strategy, and that we are also implementing Chapter 23 in this law. The proposal for a new anti-corruption law prevents conflict of interest, prevents accumulation of functions, determines the competences and powers of agencies, and particularly specifies the choice of directors. On the basis of these precise formulations, it is guaranteed that the Director of the Agency will in no way have or be in any relationship with the Executive Authority. Serbia, in my opinion, has an institutional framework to fight corruption. There is no protection in the fight against corruption, there is no practice in the previous period for court proceedings to go out of date, so that when they become old in some way trying to run a new court process, there is no protected party book, social status, wealth, there is no waiting for someone to become an ex-leader, so that the proceedings against him can be initiated. Serbia's public was appalled by many corruption affairs related, above all, to Vojvodina Development Bank, to Tesla Bank, to the Development Fund. There were no court proceedings that gave an epilogue that the citizens expected in these serious crimes. I believe that the new law on the origin of the property that your ministry, Mrs. Kuburovic, prepares will answer many of the issues that the public is interested in, above all, as Dragan Djilas earned 500m euros or that Vuk Jeremic explains his ties to Patrick Hoa who was convicted of corruption. I think that in Serbia, which is very important for the fight against corruption, all institutions have to take care of and engage in the fight against corruption. I also believe that we are ahead in the fight against corruption both in the region and in some EU countries, such as Romania and Bulgaria. For the sake of Serbian citizens, I would like to say that in one year from the application of the Law on Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities, tens of thousands of criminal charges have been considered, that 681 persons have been indicted, that 448 convictions have been made, that 444 are condemning and that this is the best evidence of how many states and competent institutions deal with the fight against corruption. Transparency is important for fighting corruption, information is important for citizens. I can't help but say that this high house is the most transparent institution in Serbia, and that's why we got a lot of recognitions. Serbia's parliament is on the front line to fight corruption. In the GOPAK national branch of this parliament to fight corruption, there are 43 MPs. We are one of the few parliaments in the world that has a portal to monitor public finances, and I think these are all important steps to combat corruption in Serbia. In the voting day, I will support all proposed laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-15-0.u54197	Thank you very much. The word has Zivan Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-15-0.u54198	President-in-Office, respected minister with fellow Members, respected MPs, this is an opportunity and I feel the need to, before saying a few words about the laws on the agenda of this session, reminding me that judicial reform began with the adoption of a national judicial reform strategy in 2006, the Constitution of November 2006 and a set of judicial laws in December 2008. Once again, I will remind you that the former regime, or the Democratic Party that was in power at the time, carried out a reform of the judiciary, so to speak. judicial reform 2009, 2010 and 2011. The reform, at least so declared, should have consistently regulated the rule of law and independence of the judiciary through a consistent division into three branches - legislative, executive and judicial power. In several provisions, the constitution predicted that judicial authority is independent of the other two branches of government. The objectives of the reform were judicial independence, a new network of courts, a reduction in the costs of the judiciary, changes in procedural laws in order to be effective. The independence of the judiciary was to be realised that it was guaranteed through the Constitution, through the independence of the judicial authority, the continuity of the court's office and the protection of the position of judges and prosecutors. The independence of the judicial authority has not been consistently implemented by the Law on the High Council of the judiciary and the Law on Judges in which the transitional and final provisions provide for a general re-election and selection of judges, which was in direct contrast with the Constitution and the principle of continuity of the judicial office. The basic constitutional principle guaranteed by the independence of judges through the principle of continuity of the judge's office has been violated and any interpretation that was then given, above all by the party's politicians who were in power, is not in line with this constitutional principle. Just to remind you, the independence of the judge's authority has not been consistently implemented by the Law on the High Council of the judiciary and the Law on Judges. The executive authority, contrary to the opinion of the professional public and without the participation of the judiciary, has made a decision on the general re-election and election of judges by the first term of the High Council of Justice, which was not elected by the judiciary, but by the Assembly. The election and work of that first Supreme Council of the judiciary was followed by a series of irregularities and illegalities. The executive and legislative authority gave special privileges to the members of the first Supreme Council of the judiciary, as they were excluded from the general re-election and provided them with progress after the end of the term of office. This led to a counter-service to the executive authority because the choice of judges was carried out without any criteria and procedures to the extent of the executive authority, which is no longer disputed at all and there is a series of evidence to do so. A detailed analysis of these new networks of courts and effects of the total and so on. The reforms of the judiciary can be clearly established that justice has become inaccessible to citizens, that judicial costs have become higher and that the entire judicial system has become more expensive and slower. In addition to the damage suffered, the judicial system became more expensive, the material damage suffered and the unselected judges, as well as the immaterial damage, as the date of publication of the decision of the High Council of Justice on 25 December 2009 on the non-election of judges and the termination of the judicial post began the media hack through written and other media on all the unselected judges, since the then Ministry of Justice, the High Council of the Judiciary and members of the then regime. For all these reasons, hundreds of lawsuits for compensation for material and immaterial damage have been filed, the Republic of Serbia has paid millions for the damage that someone has done, the judiciary has been devastated, and so far no one has answered. The Serbian Progressive Party also noted in the 2012 pre-election campaign the need to continue reforming the judiciary and correcting the mistakes it has made, and that it will never allow anything like this to happen again, as the Serbian citizens have recognised and what the party is doing. In addition to the adoption of the National Strategy for Justice Reform and the Action Plan for the implementation of this reform, and in line with these strategic documents, a series of laws have been adopted in the area of justice, as well as in other areas since the SNS took responsibility for the exercise of power. The laws whose adoption on the agenda of this session of the National Assembly, and above all the draft law amending and supplementing the Criminal Code, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Criminal Procedures, the Proposal for a Law on the Prevention of Corruption, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Abdication of Assets, and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Sanctions, surrounds the legal framework for a new effective judicial system. I will, above all, remain on the Bill of Amendments and Receipts of the Criminal Code. The most significant change of the Criminal Code, and in the general part, is the introduction of a life sentence, as a new kind of punishment. In addition to the introduction of a life sentence, the bill contains another important newspaper, which is to prescribe rules for the stricter punishment of the perpetrator of criminal acts when it comes to returnees, or multiple returnees. In a special section of the Criminal Code, amendments and additions have been made to the fact that any criminal offence for which a sentence of 30 to 40 years is prescribed under the applicable law is now a sentence of life imprisonment. I would point out a significant role that belongs to a policy that is conducted in criminal conduct and the application of criminal sanctions, which is called criminal policy. To conduct a criminal policy means to apply criminal sanctions against perpetrators of criminal offences, so that they effectively achieve the purpose of criminal sanctions. The dilemma remains whether the criminal policy of our courts is mild or harsh. Although the claim that we are being led by a mild criminal policy that is based on the fact that a conditional conviction is often pronounced, that prison sentences have been imposed in many criminal acts near a special minimum, that often the use of the institute to mitigate penalties at first sight seems acceptable, to assess the severity or mildness of criminal policy still cannot be so easy to come by. The fact is that between the prescribed and the penalties imposed, there is a major divide, which leads to the conclusion that criminal policy is extremely mild. Finally, just to remind the MPs and all citizens of Serbia that the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic pointed out on several occasions that the end of the judicial reform is one of the most important pillars for normal functioning of the economy, state administration and creating a safe environment for foreign investment. All this in practice seems to be what the citizens can see. All amendments to the laws that have been passed since the SNS took power have led to accelerated court proceedings, a reduction in the number of pending cases, a level playing field and greater predictability of the judicial system. All of this should result in the return of citizens' trust and economics in the judicial system and the rounding of the legal framework for a more effective judicial system. In voting day, I'll vote for all these proposed laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-15-0.u54199	Thank you. The word is Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-15-0.u54200	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, extremely important law proposals are ahead of us. Of course he's so-called. Tijana's law drew the public's most attention, but also other draft laws on the agenda, which deal with the fight against corruption and crime. We are also from you, Madam Minister, but also from our authorised representative Jelena Zaric Kovacevic, as well as from the other MPs who participated in the debate heard all of the most important moments provided for by these acts, but all the arguments why we should adopt these laws and the Serbian Progressive Party strongly supports these drafts of the law. However, I cannot help but notice a hysteria that is emerging these days by the government in part of the opposition and in the works of the media who are willing to criticize even what we are doing today. I can't help but wonder what their hypocrisy is going to. First, we were accused of not adopting Tijana's law, the loudest in the charge, and today, when Tijana's law is on the agenda, they're gone, they're not here in the Assembly. That's not what's worst. In addition to being gone, these days they are openly criticising these bill proposals, and it is not in line with European standards, and it is not humane, a whole bunch of nonsense that can be heard from them. Why are they doing this? Only because this proposal comes from the government of the Republic of Serbia. It is amazing that whatever we propose they will find a way to be against it, regardless of whether it is good for the citizens of Serbia. When it comes to anti-corruption laws that are on the agenda, it is clear to me that they are against it. Dragan Gilas cannot be against corruption, he is synonym for corruption in Serbia. He cannot explain where he came from hundreds of millions of euros after his term. How can he be against corruption? Vuk Jeremic can't be against corruption, so when he can't explain where he got hundreds of millions of euros, in fact millions of euros, to be more accurate than that Chinese man who was convicted in America. How can he be against corruption? Bosko Obradovic cannot be against corruption when he is the crack perpetrator of Gilas' will, Gilas' orders. As Gilas with his eye, they hurt with the jump. How can these people be against corruption? How do they support anti-corruption laws? Look, please, just this hysteria that's been going against Patriarch Irine and the Serbian Orthodox Church in recent days. They are now bothered by the Irinaeus and the Serbian Orthodox Church and the bishops. Everyone's in their way. There are these media that are able to bring the most monstrous things these days against certain bishops and patriarchs. Only because the patriarch met with Vukic and only because he made a statement that Vukic was fighting heroically for the country and for the people and for Kosovo. It's the only sin of the patriarch, and that's why he's their target today. That's the kind of people we're dealing with. I wonder what's next. Will the Patriarch also declare himself a bot, a sandwich? Is that what's next waiting for us from the Alliance for Serbia? I would like, for all the reasons that I have stated, to invite all the MPs to support these bill proposals, of everything we have heard today but also all the other efforts of the Serbian and President government to make Serbia a decent and orderly country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-15-0.u54201	Thank you. The word is Tanja Tomašević Damjanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-15-0.u54202	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Madam Minister with fellow Members, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, today's draft laws show, above all, the state's determination to overcome the most severe forms of crime and corruption. When it comes to amending the Criminal Code, the aim of the amendment is to revise sanctions for the most serious crimes. The most important change is the introduction of a life sentence for the most serious crimes. The Tijana Juric Foundation's initiative to introduce a life sentence in prison supported its signatures by 158,000 citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The sentence of a life sentence prescribed for crimes such as serious murder, the rape resulting in death, the promise of a child and the powerless person with a fatal consequence as well as the crime promise of abuse of a position with a fatal outcome. Amendments shall be imposed on the grounds of a mild criminal policy because courts for serious criminal offences also impose conditional sentences or penalties at the level of the legal minimum. Another significant newspaper is a stricter criminal policy for returnees. An analysis of judicial judgments from all over Serbia, where victims and rapes and murders, found that 80% of these cases were perpetrators, those who had just been convicted and endured sentences for murder or rape. The objective of a stricter criminal policy is to act preventively on possible perpetrators of criminal offences and to impose appropriate prison sentences for the most serious crimes. It should be noted that, when it comes to life imprisonment, certain restrictions are provided for in its regulation and pronunciation, and these restrictions remain the same as in prison sentences from 30 to 40 years. It can only be prescribed for the most severe crimes and the most severe forms of criminal acts and always alternative to prison punishment. A ban on her saying to persons who did not turn 21 at the time of the crime was also detained. In addition, a ban on sentence of life imprisonment in cases where there is some legal basis for the mitigation of penalties or for the release from fines is provided. Overstepping the bounds of the necessary defense, attempt, significantly reduced accountability, voluntary withdrawal. It is predicted that persons sentenced to life imprisonment can be suspended after 27 years of imprisonment, except when crimes are being committed by the "Tijana Juric" Foundation initiative. Such a solution is in line with the intensification of a life sentence that, by its nature, weighs from a prison sentence of 30 to 40 years. One reason for amending and supplementing the Criminal Code is the need to fully bring domestic criminal legislation into line with the recommendation of an intergovernmental body that sets global standards in the field of combating money laundering and terrorist financing. The proposed changes and additions to the Criminal Code would achieve full compliance with the highest international standards to prevent terrorist financing, which is of no doubt important for improving the position of the Republic of Serbia in international bodies in the area. Because of all this, as I said at the beginning, what these laws show is the willingness of the state to fight and win the most difficult forms of crime and corruption, the SNS will support all these draft laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-15-0.u54203	Thank you. The word is "Zarko Micin."
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-15-0.u54204	I thank the esteemed president of the National Assembly. Dear Madam Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I must say I'm really sorry that I don't see any of my fellow opposition colleagues today, but they must have been ordered not to come as soon as they didn't come to discuss such important drafts of the law. It's really something that shouldn't be happening. I think 160,000 Serbian citizens who have supported these legal proposals will surely punish them, the next elections will show them what they think of such a move. As President Aleksandar Vukic announced in January this year, today we have proposals for very important laws that regulate criminal law and present clear evidence that this government is uncompromisingly fighting crime and corruption. The government of the Republic of Serbia listened to the vote of 160,000 Serbian citizens who proposed such a law at the Tijana Juric Foundation and in previous months we could hear many different opinions on the justification for the introduction of a life sentence in prison. I think we should compare it and see what it looks like in other countries. I have a map in front of me that clearly shows that, in fact, most of Europe has imposed a life sentence. So all this is dark, these are the countries of Europe that have imposed a life sentence with the exception of, so Serbia, Croatia, Bosnia, Portugal, Spain, Iceland and Norway. Why? I mentioned Norway on purpose, and I'm going to give you this as a negative example. In Norway, the maximum prison sentence that can be prescribed is for the worst crimes of 21 years. Now we have a personal situation that Anders Brayvik, who killed 70 people on the island, several years ago, was sentenced to a maximum prison sentence of 21 years. He'll come out as an older man, but I'm sure, I can't say he's sure, but I think he might do those crimes again. He didn't even show a shred of remorse, and we could see that at the trials he was in. It is our goal to prevent such solutions from happening in this law. What kind of proposal do we have in this law? The proposal is to introduce a life sentence for prison instead of a 40-year sentence for all the most serious crimes it is currently prescribed with the possibility of parole after 27 years of suspended prison sentences and it is very similar to the current legal solution because now, although someone is sentenced to 40 years in prison after the current legal solution, he could seek parole after 26 years and eight months. What is important is that parole can only be sought by the convict who was well - ruled during the course of his sentence and who did not have more than two disciplinary measures. The most important newspaper we introduce in this law is the sentence of life imprisonment by the perpetrator of the most serious crimes without the possibility of parole and this is on the initiative of the "Tijana Juric" Foundation. Thus, this punishment will be pronounced for the perpetrators of the most serious crimes such as murder, rape, promise of hope to the child and the powerless person with a fatal outcome. I certainly welcome the introduction of such a sanction because it will completely remove people like this from society and prevent them from ever doing such terrible crimes again. The important thing is that the proposal says that the crimes for which a life sentence is prescribed cannot become obsolete. So, no one will be able to avoid criminal responsibility for these most serious crimes by practically becoming obsolete to him. It is also important that we introduce a safeguard mechanism to check for ten years in a probation period and how someone commits a crime again, for which a sentence of over one year can be prescribed, so it will be returned to resuscitation of life imprisonment and will never again be able to commit a new crime. What I have to point out is that a life sentence is not enough to prevent anyone from committing a crime. Practice has shown that effective detection and prevention of crime by police and foreign security services is the best effect on potential criminals to give up on committing crimes. So I welcome the fact that since the beginning of the year, only in one action, over 150 persons from a criminal mile have been arrested in one day and that we have shown clearly that neither the ruling party's party's party book can protect the one who committed the crime. What I, as a lawyer, welcome, as a significant newspaper in the Bill of Amendments to the Criminal Code is the introduction of a criminal act of assault on a lawyer. Unfortunately, we've been witnessing that the last 10 years have been over 50 assaults on lawyers, my colleagues have been beaten, my colleagues have been poured acid, my colleagues have unfortunately killed and not only that, they've been destroying their property. Thank God, this is a good start to get in the way and when we adopt these amendments to the law, whoever attacks a lawyer or a member of his family will be sentenced to punishment, or he may be sentenced to prison. To the extent that he suffers from mild or severe physical injury, such acts will become more severe. What's very important is how much damage the lawyer's property is, he can also be punished. It is important that this proposal defines that this crime only exists if it is done, in relation to a lawyer in the course of his legal work, and thus we will avoid possible abuses. So, I welcome these alterations and the introduction of a felony assault on a lawyer, but that's just the beginning of a fight. The most important thing is for the police and the prosecution to be as effective as possible in processing these crimes and of course to find all those attackers who have attacked lawyers so far, because it's the only way we can send a clear message that the attacks against a lawyer can't go unpunished. I urge you all to support these bill proposals, because they are extremely important to the future of our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-15-0.u54205	Thank you. The word is Alexandra Maletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-15-0.u54206	I thank the president. Dear Mrs Kuburovic, fellow MPs, it is my great pleasure to have the opportunity to discuss the proposed amendments to the law and the new laws introduced by this set of judicial laws in parliament. At first, I must really point out, and several of my colleagues have noted this in the previous address that it is a bit of a defeating fact that one part of the opposition, former regime MPs, today do not participate in the debate of this very important topic, as well as the topics which they have actually supported and signed different initiatives, as Mrs Kuburovic said, we are now facing the situation of proposing amendments that cancel out in some way the initiative they have already signed earlier. That is why it is very unnecessary, to be said so nicely, that certain MPs of the opposition are calling out the MPs participating in the discussion yesterday and today to use the subject of amending the Criminal Code, especially by alluding to the part concerning the so-called "Tian Law" to benefit for the purposes of promotion. That is not true, because we are witnesses of these very MPs sitting in parliament today, that yesterday and today we are MPs of the position and works of the opposition who participate in the work of parliament, discussed, had different opinions, perhaps on some of the legislative proposals that are in front of us. But indeed no one has used, especially not part of the Criminal Code to promote their political parties or anything else. Here we could hear some personal observations, why MPs support the introduction of a life sentence, without the possibility of parole. We had MPs who are against these measures, who are proposed, but everyone has some arguments as to why they are in favour and against. I have to point out right away at the beginning that I will support the proposed set of law enforcement laws and that I support the measure of life without parole when we consider, first of all, that in this legal solution the thoughts of very serious crimes. So this measure does not apply to all acts, but to the most serious crimes for which, indeed, some may have dilemmas, I do not. I really support this proposal in front of us. When we talk about human rights, it's really a subject that can be sensitive and sensitive, the subject itself is also a question of the limit where human rights begin and end when we talk about the most difficult crimes, but we shouldn't have a dilemma here, because the job of every state and society, above all, is to allow every citizen to live with dignity and to have the right to life. It is precisely this legal solution that will allow children, pregnant women and persons who are very necessary for that protection and who are the most sensitive part of society, to actually get, not only the support of the state, but the whole of society, and that is our obligation as a citizen, the MPs we represent here, to support a legal solution. Is a life sentence without parole justified or not? I've already noted, in my opinion, that she is justified and that there is a reason why she should be introduced, she is the right measure against the severity of the crime she refers to in this law. What's still very important and what we can say is that we shouldn't call ourselves on the surface in our human rights debates. Of course, our constitution guarantees constitutional rights to the citizens of Serbia, and no one disputes it, but here we are talking, indeed, about a serious crime for which there must be some proportionate measure of punishment. Of course, people who have lost their parents, who have lost their children and who are the drivers of this initiative, the question is, is there a real punishment that can replace what they have provided in their lives? This punishment should allow another child not to be attacked or God forbid, killed in the way that certain children have experienced it. I will support this law in the voting day and I think all MPs should support these amendments to the law and that it is our, above all, human obligation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-15-0.u54207	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-15-0.u54208	Thank you, Chairman. This way, it's fortunate that we never have to pass a law like this, to introduce a life sentence, but apparently circumstances are such that it's something that has to be introduced to prevent anyone from thinking they're raping, brutally killing, or whatever comes to his mind, it just doesn't happen to happen. Although most often it's about people who are mentally ill, but there are some of these, like in this situation about Tijana Juric, where we had a man who did it for completely incomprehensible reasons. People like that really deserve to go to jail for life. I'd sharpen that especially to paedophiles, but anyway, it's already at the Justice Department or general legislation to decide. Anyway, I'll vote for something like that. It's only incomprehensible to me, because we had colleagues on the other side who are boycotting this session. They drank our blood here to introduce this law, even accused us of supporting rapists. I remember some statements saying that the ruling majority supports rapists, because it does not want to introduce this law, or that it does not want the proposals that Father Tijana Juric made, that we do not want to adopt. That was a terrible campaign to suffer. We all felt here as MPs of the ruling majority even ashamed because someone was so critical of us, and only the goal was somehow to introduce it into the legal frameworks, to be in accordance with the Constitution, so that something like that could be adopted, and now that it's on the agenda, they're not here. That's outrageous. Well, now do we all have to say, wait, you support rapists, you don't want to vote for this law? Well, that would be hypocritical of us. They abused in this way a truly terrible situation, and even father Tijana Juric's emotions, to come to political points, because it's obviously a group of people who use absolutely everything that falls under their hands just to fight Alexander Vukic and you when you accept and correct it somewhere, then they won't even vote for what they were for. I don't understand that kind of behavior. However, what I would particularly refer to, by supporting what will introduce you to the crime of assaulting lawyers, and by agreeing with my colleague, Žarko Micino, that the lawyers have been subjected to terrible attacks, even with a fatal outcome, and must, of course, lawyers protect themselves. My colleagues are rarely exposed to incredible scenes, attacks, because, you know, I guess there's a lot of people here who expect when they hire a lawyer that he'll definitely solve their problem, even though nobody can ever promise that, and then people experience things. They've got acid in their eyes, they've got offices on fire, they've been killed, and it's good to have something like this in place. However, this law regarding the prevention of corruption, I think that his title, at least in my view, I must point out the criticism, is not adequate, because if we are talking about preventing corruption, then we should stress that only public officials are being talked about here and that it is written - preventing corruption by public officials. You know, a doctor can also be susceptible to corruption, and for instance here is not listed, only public officials are listed. Or, for example, a company worker in the municipality can also be subject to corruption, that someone gives him, for example, 100 euros to draw out some very important document in the municipality, which is not listed here, because it only applies to public officials, so I think that should be specified. For what reason? Because when we talk about public officials here, such an atmosphere is created in society, and that's what bothers me terribly, this is where such an atmosphere is created that a public official is bound to be a thief and that we should stop him from stealing anything at all, because he's considered a thief as a public official and so we reject people essentially to deal with politics. We really need to think about it. Look at our society for what the People's Messenger is talking about. It used to be an institution where all people were just a little bit proud. It was an honor for them to be MPs. Today, what the media, however you like, is made of a people's messenger a man where it would be most natural, approximately, to be beaten by someone on the street because he's a thief. As soon as he is a Messenger of the people, he is a thief, and he who knows what he is doing, steals, eats free in parliament, sets up jobs for himself, and so forth. We, people, must end this practice in this society because the MP is not a thief, he is a representative of the people and he simply represents that people here in the Assembly. And what are we doing? Otherwise, I support, to be clear, that everyone has to report the property and even have to tighten it up, it has to be controlled, but what do we have here from the beginning? No, no, you're a fraud, you're getting some pay there, who knows how you're setting up your jobs, shame on you, you bastard, and then when it's even stronger with these laws, it's getting sharper to the MPs, then the people say, yes, it's because they're thieves, so it's got to get a little bit sharper. You see, it has to be contained once. It must once be contained and said that being a public official is an honor, not that you came here to make your combinations and increase your capital. I very much support this state action, especially for these officials in local self-government, that, of course, the more often they exercise control, the more they get arrested. Well, to lie to ourselves, there are many officials on local self-government, and there are many state institutions. It's a shame to have coffee with him. It's a shame, really, because they do what they do and when you go somewhere in the middle, so when people start telling you everything he's done, that, of course, doesn't ever get to this point, to people in Belgrade, then you ask yourself, so how is it possible that he's even come into this situation to be? Of course, there's a lot of nonsense. For example, I've been listening for various local officials, the president of the municipalities. That when someone comes to tell you, it's from an evil father and worse mother, about a man, but that man goes to the polls and wins by one 70% versus 30%, as much as everyone else wins. Well, he can't exactly be a thief if I don't know 70% of them voted for him. Well, it's hypocritical and out of your mind. Anyway, I support this law. Let it get sharper, with what I have to tell you, I've heard various demands and, thank God, it wasn't introduced here into the law, but I've heard various demands, that you should now report property and brothers and aunts and mother-in-laws and aunts and aunts. Wait, guys, how can you make a commitment? Let's just say, hypothetically, maybe someone isn't talking to their own brother. Well, what would his own brother accept to report that property? What right do you have to ask him to do that? Maybe a man won't do it. Then how? Who's here in violation now? We, for example, had such situations where it is said: shame upon him; he carried it there on the mother-in-law, on this one, on that one! He may not have done it, but he's been doubting himself since the beginning because such an atmosphere was created – if you're a public official, you're a criminal. So I'm asking you, in addition to the laws that make this thing sharpened and that I fully support and vote, but that somewhere you do, on the other hand, that media officials aren't exposed from the beginning to being thieves because it's not true and that there's a little more to be talked about. Look at all the research they show. Unfortunately, our institutions have very little support for citizens because such an atmosphere is created and people in God’s justice are blamed from the beginning for being thieves, and they are not. I hope this law, among other things, improves and improves something like that, because when people read this law, which we're going to adopt, I'm just saying that I don't like its title very much, when people really read it, they'll realize that there's no chance that as a public official you're going to hide something and that you're cheating on the state somewhere, because it's impossible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-15-0.u54209	I thank my colleague Djukanovic. The word has been made by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-15-0.u54210	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected members of the government, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I am sure there is no legal act, rule, law, any legal norm or any paper that will compensate and end the pain of a family that has lost its loved ones, especially if it is a child. Then that pain is much greater. Also, that pain is much greater if a child has lost his life because of someone's debauchery, cruelty, etc. The other thing I'm certain of is that people who have committed such monstrous crimes can never again become equal members of a society in which some moral and legal rules and norms apply. That this is true and that my claim is true, it also confirms the number of 160,000 signatures of citizens who have actually launched this people's initiative, which we today officially call the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Code, and the people in Serbia call it Tijana's Law. No matter what we call this bill today, the fact is that it's what it's trying to influence exactly these two things that I've been talking about. On the one hand, to provide some kind of satisfaction for the lives of children and the powerless who have suffered and who have been victims of these monsters, and on the other hand, to protect society and to have some kind of prevention that these monsters would not commit in the future. Unfortunately, I am quite familiar with the tragedy situation of Tijana Juric of Subotica, and I am sure that this is a satisfaction and for a good part of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia who were expecting and seeking the worst punishment for the criminal who did such a misdemeanor. I think this explanation makes it clear to everyone what the purpose of this law is, but what neither of us in this room nor in Serbia is normal is clear that today, when we talk about this issue, there is no one from the opposition in the hall. None of them intend to take part in the debate, nor to vote when it comes to this legislative proposal, which, the fact is, exceeds all our daily political conflicts and day-to-day political disagreements. What's worse is that most of them are staying in Belgrade cafes today, and there are a hundred meters from here in some tents where God knows what he's doing. And we can only guess what it is that led them to such a single procedure to refuse both debate and vote when it comes to this law. And I suppose it's one blinding hatred for, above all, the president of the state, the SNS, the blinding hatred for the state and its own people. It is good for the state and for Serbia to see what one is today, what human hatred and blindness can do and what the consequences can be for all citizens and what would be the consequences if such people took over Serbia's governance. And just as we don't understand why they're not there when it comes to Tijana's law, on the other hand, it's crystal clear to us why they're not there when it comes to the anti-corruption law. According to a proposal that is today ahead of us, the law provides for the application of property, income, the possibility of checking the account of officials and these are things that do not correspond to their political bosses. It does not correspond to people who have increased those accounts and property to the harm of the people in Serbia for more than a decade, almost a decade and a half or more in Vojvodina. They filled their accounts with people's money and I think it's clear why they're not here today when we talk about a law that will prevent such actions in the future. And it's again today mostly people who led the Democratic Party back then, so on. The DOS that today bears the name Alliance for Serbia, and behind it are the same people and some of their followers. In any case, we from the SNS and the SNS MPs together with our partners will be quite enough to vote on Tijana's law and the law on preventing corruption, as well as any other legal proposals that are before us today. We will be quite a number and hope remains that one of the opposition MPs will break off the chain of his political bosses and appear at least in the day of voting with a minimum of human dignity to support, first of all, Tijana's law, and why not the law on preventing corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-15-0.u54211	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Zvonimir Djokic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-15-0.u54212	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministerial Councillors, honourable Members of the People, we have before us a Tian law called this, and could be named after the names of many other children who, unfortunately, have experienced a similar fate. First of all, I want to thank you for the results you achieve in protecting the independence of the judiciary, regardless of which side the pressures come from, continue to do so. On the other hand, I want to thank you for putting this one people's initiative to pass this law through one perfectly correct procedure, which was conducted by the public debate exactly as it was meant to be and that we have today a law which we will certainly adopt and which is very important and which we have missed so far. The aim of this law is certainly to punish perpetrators, i.e. that the punishments for the perpetrators may be proportionate to the works done and that they may be just. We know and we are aware that there are no ideal laws, there are neither ideal judgments, but the importance of these laws that are before us today, including Tijana's law, and above all Tijana's law that it was initiated by the people. They've been through the widest public debate. Therefore, the people believe that the most severe forms of crimes such as murder, rape, promise of a helpless person, promise of a child, and when they are committed to a child, a minor, a burdensome woman and an powerless person are criminally sanctioned by a life sentence without the court being able to lay off the convicted for those crimes. It is also important to include this law, i.e. This sentence, which was subsequently extended to other crimes for which a prison has been ordered from 30 to 40 years. So, if we decided we didn't have the death penalty and that we had anticipated a prison sentence of 30 to 40 years for the most serious crimes, then it's perfectly correct that you suggested that these sentences be extended and for the next crimes, it's murder of the highest state authorities. We've had such a case, unfortunately, in our history. Major acts against constitutional regulation and Serbia's security, association to commit crimes, genocide, crime against humanity, war crimes against civilian population, war crimes against prisoners of war, the use of illicit means of fighting, the killing and wounding of enemies, the aggressive war, the use of a deadly device, terrorism, destruction and damage to a nuclear facility and the threat of persons under international protection. There may not have been any crime in this domain by now, but this law will act preventively not to happen. While we're discussing a set of laws in this area, we see, they're empty benches, unfortunately, that belong to part of the opposition, because they're not interested in these laws. However, it seems to me that we pay too much attention to them, to one insignificant minority who, for his own purpose, has just been holding back every progress we make, every progress, and even in this legal field. When we discuss these laws, it's normal that they're not here. So who else will be referred to, for example, the proposal for a law on the prevention of corruption, the law on the confiscation of property arising from a criminal offence? I'm personally convinced, that's my opinion, on a large number of people who are against passing laws like this, I don't want to name them individually now. Of course they're not here. They don't want laws like this. They don't want laws that will introduce order in this country. That is why they want in an illegal, illegal way to come back to power and prevent any progress from Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-15-0.u54213	I thank my colleague, Djokic. The word has a national MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-15-0.u54214	Thank you. Dear President-in-Office, respected minister with co-workers, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, before us on the second day of public debate, there are a set of judicial laws that are of paramount importance for the improvement of the legislative framework and, of course, for the greater and better protection of each citizen of the Republic of Serbia. The issue of life, the issue of security and security of every citizen of the Republic of Serbia, and in particular the issue of protecting the lives of the most vulnerable and most vulnerable social groups, is the issue of number one for the SNS, which is a matter that must and should enjoy full protection in all possible areas, and above all in the legislative area. For this reason, I believe that the amendments and additions to the Criminal Code, which provide for a new prison sentence, which is a life sentence, and that they are significant precisely from the aspect of protecting the lives of the most vulnerable and vulnerable, which are children, pregnant women, powerless, elderly and, of course, the protection of all those exposed to the most disgusting and monstrous act, which is rape by the perpetrators of this crime. The amendments and additions to this Criminal Law will certainly have a historical character, because for the first time, and of course, in accordance with the comparative and legal solutions of the most developed European countries and the most developed democracies, such as Switzerland, such as Germany, such as France, such as Great Britain, are imposed. The issue of life protection, i.e. the right to life, is fundamental human rights and the state is obliged to take all measures to ensure that every citizen of the Republic of Serbia achieves this fundamental human right, the right to life. No one has the right to deprive another person of the right to live. Whoever dares to deprive someone of their lives is a monster, it's someone who committed a brutal murder and, of course, he deserves a life sentence in prison. The life sentence of prison is intended for the most violent murder, just for the murders of children, for minors, for pregnant women, for the elderly and the powerless. There isn't and there can't be parole. Of course, the sentence of life in some other cases also knows parole. It may occur after 27 years of imprisonment, but, of course, it is preceded by a court ruling and many other circumstances that may lead or do not have to lead to parole. It is also very important that there is a suspension of parole for a 10-year period, so that the one who repeats it is going back to a prison sentence. What I particularly want to point out is that this law was first supported by 160,000 citizens through the initiative of the Tijana Juric Foundation, the father of the deceased girl, who tragically lost her life to just one rapist, torturer and monster. I would also like to point out that the Ministry of Justice formed a working group in 2015 and discussed the introduction of a life sentence in prison, and I would also like to praise that in the preparation of amendments and additions to the Criminal Law, the Ministry of Justice worked together for the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Health, so that even some issues concerning the difficult circumstances when giving a prison sentence by the court must be appreciated when it comes to returnees in one way when it comes to the first time, and in another way, more stringent legal sanctions must be imposed when it comes to returnees for the second or third time. The Serbian Progressive Party has no dilemma. She votes for life, and this law certainly is for the benefit of the lives of all our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-15-0.u54215	Thank you. Before I give my word to my colleague Veljkovic, only one piece of information, given that we have only representatives of the SNS parliamentary group on the list of registered MPs, the remaining time, when it comes to this joint principled and unique search, is seven minutes. Comrade Veljkovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-15-0.u54216	Thank you, Chairman. The Honorable Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in addition to the others, there is an extremely important proposal, which is a bill on amendments to the Criminal Code, which represents a change of system law, which has been approached with great seriousness, with the maximum involvement of the professional public and through regular legal procedure started in 2015 by forming a permanent working group of the Ministry of Justice. Following a precise analysis of the criminal justice framework in our country, i.e. statistics on the execution of certain crimes, as well as the outcome of judicial proceedings, it can be unequivocally found that Serbia has a rather mild criminal policy, which is manifested not so much in the prescribed penalties, but in their enforcement, or judgments, which imposes a need to review the effectiveness of such punishment. Two main purposes of punishment are revenge and prevention. Retaliation as an eternal goal of punishment is in modern criminal law rejected as unacceptable. Our present Criminal Code stipulates that the purpose of prescribing and giving criminal sanctions is special and general prevention, as well as an educational function which is viewed through the expression of social condemnation for criminal offences, strengthening morals and strengthening the obligation to respect the law. All lawyers know that it is the general prevention that should prevent future perpetrators from committing any crime. However, the current legislative framework, the situation in the judicial system, where the proceedings are taking too long and judges are overpricing extenuating circumstances for the accused, conditioned the increase in the most serious crimes and made it difficult to realize the purpose of punishment. These are some of the reasons that conditioned the amendment and addition of the Penal Code, which is the essence of a life sentence for the most serious crimes. In addition, the introduction of a life sentence, the proposal contains still an important newspaper – prescribing rules for the stricter punishment of perpetrators of crimes when it comes to returnees, or multiple returnees, who otherwise represent one of the biggest security problems in every society, including ours. The introduction of a new crime – attacking lawyers and regulating the sanctioning of murder. The proposed changes, especially the introduction of a life-long prison without the right to parole for certain criminal acts, continued the tightening of criminal policy has upset the wider and professional public, leading to reflections, conversations and numerous dilemmas. By opting to prescribe a certain sentence, we define ourselves as a society according to a certain social phenomenon. In this context, I point out that serious and ferocious crimes, especially towards children, require special attention from society and should be condemned and sanctioned in every way. The possibility that the perpetrators of such cruel acts of life can be found at large again, which the current legal solutions allow and possibly repeat the same or similar act, which in any case is terrifying, especially for families who have suffered the terrible loss of children, imposes the need to introduce life imprisonment as a resolute response and the attitude of society towards social behavior of children, killing children, or in the worst way abuse children. The proposal for this law is an adequate response to our society. Unfortunately, as in any process, there are also organisations for the alleged protection of human rights and some individuals who believe that the proposed amendments and additions to the Criminal Code, in particular with regard to the introduction of a life sentence, without the right to parole, represent a precedent unrecorded in the legislation, which will lead us to a distance from the EU and a problem with the European Court of Human Rights. It is also noted that the intended sentence of life without the right to parole can be subject to the notion of an inhumane punishment which is explicitly forbidden by the Charter and which does not give any chance to a convicted person that his situation can change. Of course, these findings are not fully established, given the fact that life imprisonment can be imposed in 183 of the 216 countries in the world, and of the 49 members of the Council of Europe, only nine countries have no life sentence, and these are besides Spain, Norway, Portugal, Andorra, San Marino and the state formed in the territory of Yugoslavia, except Slovenia. Also, five member states of the Council of Europe are predicting this fine without the right to parole. Otherwise, I point out that the concept of life imprisonment was introduced in the 1990s, following the ratification of Protocol 6, along with the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights, which abolished the death penalty, and is increasingly pronounced with the trend of further growth. In this context, I point out that in the last three decades, the number of those sentenced to life imprisonment was tripled, while in 2000, 261,000 people were sentenced to life imprisonment, already in 2014, this figure was 479, which is 84% growth. When it comes to an objection relating to the rights of the perpetrator of brutal crimes, the logical question arises – what about the rights of victims, juvenile Angelina, Tiana, Ivana and their families? So we have a situation of fighting the rights of a child who is not even 18 years old and on the other side of the rights of a child killer. If we have to look and weigh those two, then I don't think at any point we should have any dilemma, especially if we go from the fact that our children are the greatest treasure and the future of this country, then we are obliged to take all available measures and activities that will allow no more children to suffer from such monsters, and by means of this bill we send a clear and unequivocally message that Serbia will not have a shred of tolerance against such most disgusting criminals. In the end, I would like to express my satisfaction that the proposal of the Serbian Bar Association of Lawyers was accepted to prescribe a new criminal offence in the law – an attack on lawyers. By prescribing this crime, basic assumptions are created for the more effective handling of the competent authorities, above all, the police and the prosecution, in order to quickly detect, arrest and prosecute, and by giving a threatened sentence by the courts to achieve a clear message that the legal system is functioning. Taking into account the positive effects that will reproduce the application of the Criminal Code, the SNS parliamentary group will be pleased to vote on this and other draft laws in the voting day, regretting that this has not been done before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-15-0.u54217	Given that the SNS parliamentary group has no more time when it comes to this joint principle and uniform search, before the conclusion of a joint principle and uniform search, I ask whether they want to speak to the president, or to the representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-15-0.u54218	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you who remember Zoya's law, look at those benches on the right, Zoya's law is proposed by Dusan Milisavljevic. We left it to him. He was an authorized promoter, and we let him be the legislator of the law. When we voted in favour of this law, Dusan Milisavljevic, this is quite a sad subject, he used it abundantly. We voted for that law, we let them score, if that's what they can get at. I still believe that was a point, politically, on their part. Of 175, it seems to me, the vote, 160 belonged to the ruling majority. Only 14 opposition parties, from 50, voted in favour of the law. Proposer Dusan Milisavljevic, the moral gromada, is not here today. A similar law is on the agenda. So much for their humanity, their desire for a more human society, for a society where the power of law will rule, not the law of power. They're not here today, neither is he. We voted in favour of the law, and from what I believe, 15 DS members voted only four of them. I'll list some famous people who didn't vote at the time, who were loud. They're extremely loud, but when it comes to voting for those laws, they're gone. For example, Dragoljub Micunovic did not want to vote for the law, whose proposal was Dusan Milisavljevic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Dragan Sutanovac, Mrs Vukkovic, Balsa Bozovic. These are MPs who at that time, regardless of what they proposed, and we voted for him, did not want to vote for such a law. They're not back today. I can forgive everyone except Dusan Milisavljevic for letting us, for humanity, use us then. We knew, we kept quiet, we voted. We also forgave that they didn't want everyone to vote then. What they didn't want, we did. I will certainly vote for Tijana's law and other laws, especially the one about corruption. What's corruption? Corruption is a personal tax of a public official or an employee who is not satisfied with the fact that he receives personal income from taxes and taxis. Introducing his personal tax on some service he's supposed to do by function. There are several types of corruption, white, black. I'll talk about the blackest, so let's see. In corruption, usually a public official adapts his function to his private business. That's the blackest one. So, there's a friendly service, there's nepotism, etc., but I'll talk about these that didn't want to come here today to comment on these laws, which didn't vote for Zoya's law. So, the blackest corruption is, say, Jeremic. It doesn't seem to you, but imagine the public official of the Republic of Serbia sent to the UN, whose function, is that, Mr. Martinovic, we finance as a state, the taxpayers, who is the highest function that can happen in the UN, the president of the Assembly, who is being funded by the state that proposes it, which was us, tailored and connected with private affairs, private affairs with Patrick Hoo, who has already been convicted. When they were caught, the Americans were like that, they agreed with Vuk Jeremic, and he testified against his dad's wallet, testified against the man who gave him the money. What else about Gilas, who combined his public affairs with private firms and made 500m euros? My dear viewers, my fellow citizens, you who think, you may think that tomorrow, Gilas and Jeremic, who robbed you yesterday, will take you to a doctor and pharmacist, if you believe that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-15-0.u54219	Thanks to my colleague Rističević. The word has the mandated representative of the SNS parliamentary group National MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-15-0.u54220	I thank the chairman. Dear Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, at the end of the principle debate on very important proposals, I would like first to thank my colleagues who participated in this debate. We've heard different opinions, different attitudes, different views on matter that these laws will regulate. We who participated made this debate more constructive. Of course, we have seen from the proposals submitted by the Ministry of Justice that a normative framework has been established, an institutional framework has been established. All institutions are committed to fighting crime and corruption. They will all together form a unique system in this struggle. Not only in the region, but if we compare Serbia with EU member states, we will see that we are ahead in the constant fight against crime and corruption. These changes and additions will improve our criminal legislation and make this fight stronger. From comparative practice, we were able to see what penalties are foreseen for hard work in EU countries. Then why should we criticise proposals for our criminal legislation? Why should we criticise our desire to introduce in criminal policy penalties that will be more adequate for the crimes committed? With these suggestions, the state is indeed sending the right message - that it is persistent in the fight against crime, that it will not tolerate crimes, and that it will protect children, women, helpless persons, family. Accepting the proposal from the "Tijana Juric" Foundation's initiative means not only the success of the foundation, not only the success of the justice ministry, but the success of all of us. But it also means the debt committed by the execution of these crimes themselves, because that's what we're deciding. It also means a step forward in a legal system that should provide legal certainty to all Serbian citizens. It seems they do not understand or want to accept only supporters of the Alliance for Serbia, those MPs who did not participate in this debate, and give themselves the right to criticise the proposed solutions. First, it was not good that the law was not passed immediately, now it is not good that Tijana's law will be passed. I am sorry that MPs who support the Alliance for Serbia did not participate in this debate either. They have proven many times so far that they have failed the citizens who voted for them because they are not in parliament to discuss such important issues. They do not contribute to the debate on such important issues for purely political reasons, issues concerning the monstrosity of crimes committed against children, and that is exactly how uninterested they are in Serbia's health and normal affairs. The Alliance for Serbia's supporters' statements, which we had the opportunity to hear, are the highlight of hypocrisy and are aimed exclusively at collecting cheap political points. There is little contribution to the debate from the hall or even less to the debate from the tent. Even Bosko Obradovic went so far as to say -- that's not the law. That's what tents discuss laws? That street gives its opinion from the park? So it's about promoting the Alliance for Serbia, where they use in an unscrupulous way the most terrible things they've done to children who have been raped and killed in a cruel way. Do not people who walk and camp with representatives of the Alliance for Serbia support 160,000 people who have launched this whole process of life imprisonment with their signatures. Did they really empower Bosko Obradovic to criticise the stricter punishment of rapists and child murderers? I want to thank you at the end of the Tijana Juric Foundation for the proposals and initiatives. I'm sorry it's a cause for this loss of life in a cruel and monstrous way. I want to thank you, too, Madam Minister and your team for the serious and dedicated work that has enabled us to discuss these suggestions. It is clearly the intention of the state to deal with crime and corruption, to regulate criminal legislation to detail, and above all to tighten criminal policy and give citizens a chance to believe in our judicial system that will give them absolute security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-15-0.u54221	Thank you, colleague. According to Article 98(4), Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude a joint review of the proposals for acts referred to in points 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 14 and 15 of the agenda. Also, I am taking the opportunity to thank Minister Nelli Kuburovic and her associates for a constructive and quality debate and I am convinced that we will continue in the same tone during the discussion on details. I'm setting a break now. We continue work at 15.00 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-15-0.u54222	We're going back to work. Common Single Search on Bill Proposals from items 6 to 13 of the agenda. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that they have been invited to attend the meetings of Zoran Djordjevic, Minister of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs and Jelena Tanaskovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of the Members of Parliament, in accordance with Article 96(4). Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 170, and in accordance with Article 157(2), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint Single Search on the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Loan Treaty for a Loan for a Preferred Customer for a Modernisation and Reconstruction Project of the Hungarian-Serbian Railway Connections in the territory of the Republic of Serbia for the New Sad-Subotic, the State Border of the Republic of Serbia, which is the Ministry of Finance, as a Borrower and Chinese Export – Import Bank, as a Borrower, the Bill on the Confirmation of the Treaty on the Loan for the Credit of the Republic of Serbia – Import Banks, the Bill on the Building of the Road E763, the Share of Preljina – Požega, between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank, which represents the Ministry of Finance, as the Borrowing of the Bank and the Republic of Serbia – Import Bank – as the Borrowing of the Bank, as a Proposal for the Republic of Serbia's Proposal for the Republic of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic, the Republic of Serbia's Communication, and the Republic of Croatia's proposal for the Republic of Croatia's implementation, the Treaty, the Treaty, the Treaty, the Law on the Treaty for the Treaty, the Treaty, the Treaty, the Treaty for the Treaty for the Treaty, and the Treaty for the Treaty, the Treaty for the Treaty for the Treaty for the Treaty for the Treaty for the Republic, the Republic of the Republic of the Republic, the Europeans, and the Treaty for the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic, the Republic of the Republic, the Republic, the Republic, the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of Serbia, the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Do the proposing representatives want a word, in this case, Minister of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs, Mr Zoran Djordjevic? Here you are, Mr. Minister, and welcome to the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-15-0.u54223	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear MPs, ladies and gentlemen, you have before you a proposal for a set of laws to confirm the loan agreement. The first is the bill to confirm the loan agreement for the privileged buyer for the modernisation and reconstruction project of the Hungarian-Serbian railway link in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, for the Novi Sad-Subotic, the state border of Kelebija, between the government of the Republic of Serbia, represented by the Ministry of Serbia, as a borrower and Chinese Export – Import Bank, as a lender. Based on an agreement on economic and technical co-operation in the area of infrastructure between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the People's Republic of China concluded on 20 August 2009, the implementation of several major projects in our country financed by the favourable loans of the Chinese Export – Import Bank as the authorised institutions of the Government of the People's Republic of China. Co-operation on the basis of signed contracts with Chinese companies as contractors in major transport infrastructure projects in the Republic of Serbia, such as railway routes has been intensified and can be seen as very satisfactory. The project for the purchase of the scanners for the purposes of customs administration, the project of the construction of the Zemun Bridge – Borca with access roads, the first phase of the TE Kostolac B project, while the second phase of the Te Kostolac B project, the construction of the highway E 763, the part of Surčin – Obrenovac, the project of modernisation and reconstruction of the Hungarian-Serbian railways in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, the part of Belgrade (centre) – Stara Paz and the project of the construction of a bypass around Belgrade on the highway E 75, the bridge section across the Sava River near Osrežnica, Bubanj stream, sectors 4, 5 and 6 in progress. The Modernisation Project, the reconstruction of the Belgrade-Bipest railway, as part of the global project "One Belt, One Way" is one of the most important infrastructure projects of the Republic of Serbia, whose joint implementation has been agreed at the level of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia and the People's Republic of China and Hungary. This project has double importance for the economy of the Republic of Serbia, on the one hand, as a transit corridor between the EU and the Central and Western European countries, i.e. as part of the so-called The third maritime leg of the new silk road and the Euro-Asian express rail link. The second aspect is that modernising the said railway and including the trans-European transport network of basic corridors will create conditions for the modernisation of railways and its inclusion in transit water and passenger flows of Europe. For the Belgrade railway section (centre) – Stara Pazova, the same bank has already approved a 297,638,159.000 US dollar loan to Serbia. At the 7th Summit of the Heads of the Government of the People's Republic of China and 16 Central and Eastern European countries in Sofia, on 7 July 2018, a commercial contract was concluded on the modernisation and reconstruction of Hungarian-Serbian railways in the territory of the Republic of Serbia for the New Sad-S Subotica, the state border of Kelebija, between the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Action Society for Public Railway Infrastructure Management, the Infrastructure of the Railways of Serbia and the Chinese performer "Joint Venture of China ril International Corporation" and "The Tea Communications Contracts Company LTD" amounting to $11662,810,000 American dollars. The commercial contract includes procurement, construction and delivery and installation of all necessary elements for the reconstruction of this share, 108.1 km in length, in order to establish a two-way line for mixed traffic, for up to 200 km per hour, which meets the requirements of the basic trans-European transport network TNT. Services include activities to prepare the project and create a project for the implementation of works for Novi Sad – Subotica, the state border of Kelebija, including a project of a construction site with access roads and a traffic management project during construction. The implementation of the works shall include reconstruction and construction of railway and railway stations, signal safety and telecommunications facilities, electrical installations and power supply facilities, engineering facilities with construction and other material necessary for the implementation of the projects, as well as the provision of insights to all atheists, certificates and tests necessary for the process of technical examination in order to obtain the use of the permit and certification certificates issued by the notified body in accordance with the Law on the Safety of Interoperability of Railways. The loan agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is represented by the Ministry of Finance, as a borrower and the Chinese Export-Import Bank, as a lender, signed in Beijing on 25 April, will grant a loan of $988,388,500, which will finance 85% of the project's value under the commercial contract, while the remaining 15%, i.e. 184,421,500 U.S. dollars, to be provided from budget funds. The financial terms of the loan are: 20-year maturity, including a period of start of five years, while the repayment period is 15 years in 30 semi-annual wars that reach 15 May and 15 November each year. The period of availability of the credit shall be five years, with the possibility of further extending if necessary. The annual interest rate is fixed from 2% per year. The borrower is the government of the Republic of Serbia, represented by the finance ministry. The investor is the Public Railway Infrastructure Management Action Society "Infrastructure of Serbia" Belgrade. The contractor is “Joint Vencher of China Ril vey International Corporate” and “Cina Communications Construction Company Ltd. The cost of processing a loan at a rate of 0.25% on the total amount of the loan shall be paid once. The non-retired fee at a rate of 0.25% per year. Next on the agenda is the proposal for a law to confirm a loan agreement for a privileged buyer for a road construction project E-763, a Preljina-Pozega share, between the government of the Republic of Serbia, represented by the Ministry of Finance as a borrower and the Chinese Export-Import Bank as a lender. A memorandum of understanding between the Republic of Serbia and the company "Cina Communications Construction Company Ltd" on co-operation on the project Belgrade – Southern Adriatic, Preljina-Požega and Požega-Boljara was signed during the maintenance of the forum "Posjes and Putjara" from 14 to 15 May 2017 in Beijing. The memorandum showed the parties' intention to co-operate with each other in order to realise this priority infrastructure corridor for the Republic of Serbia. The E-763 Belgrade-South Adriatic highway is in different stages of realisation, according to shares, Surcin-Obrenovac 17.6km long, the works began on 1 March 2017. Orenovac-Ub, 26.2 kilometers long, the work is under way. Ub-Lykovac, 12 kilometers long, the work is done. Lykovac-Lig, 24 kilometers long, the work is under way. Ljig-Pray, 40.3 kilometers long, the work is done. To complete the highway, a total length of 258km to the border with Montenegro, co-operation with the Chinese company "Cina Communications Construction Company Ltd" was agreed on the construction of a 30.9km-long section of Preljina-Požega, on the basis of a commercial contract signed on 27 November 2017 at the amount of $523,530,000 US dollars. The project covers the construction of project-technical documentation and works on the construction of highways in full profile with associated engineering facilities, loops, tunnels and bridges. The characteristic of this section is that it goes through a very difficult geographical terrain, which is why it will have to build numerous tunnels and bridges, which is almost one-third of the route that will make up just bridges and tunnels. The loan agreement between the government of the Republic of Serbia, which is represented by the Ministry of Finance as a borrower and the Chinese Export-Import Bank as a lender, signed in Beijing on 25 April, granted a loan of $445m that will fund 85% of the value of projects under the commercial contract, while the remaining 15% will be provided from budget funds. The financial terms of the loan are: 20-year maturity, including a period of start of five years, while the repayment period is 15 years in equal half-year wars. Fixed interest rate of 3% a year. The total amount of credit paid on a one-time basis within 30 days of the date of entry into force of the loan contract in question. The non-retired fee is 0.5%. The Borrower is the Government of the Republic of Serbia, represented by the Ministry of Finance, and the loan user is the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport, Infrastructure or JP "The Ways of Serbia", in line with the commercial contract. Then, the draft law confirming the Partnership for Local Development between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank is on the agenda. The conclusion of the Partnership for Local Development with the European Investment Bank, signed in Belgrade on 15 April 2019, granted a 22m-euro loan to the Republic of Serbia for financial support for investments in more than 40 local self-government units, which were affected by the floods, the migrant crisis, have had a low index of development and have achieved good effects during public administration reform. Infrastructure works that will be realised in the coming period will have great importance for local self-government units and will create better conditions for the lives of their citizens. The realisation of a project whose preparatory phase began in 2018 will be implemented by the end of 2022 and includes reconstruction of municipal buildings, construction of green markets, complete renovation of the i.e. adaptation and construction of ice lighting, restoration of kindergartens and cinemas, construction of video surveillance. The Council for Project Coordination was formed by the government and the UN Development Programme in the Republic of Serbia, which has the role of the implementation partner at the session of 20 December 2017, it approved the project document Partnership for Local Development and was developed to implement the agreed project, which will then be financed in part from EIB credit funds. On 18 April 2018, the Ministry of State Administration and Local Self-Government concluded with the UNDP a financing agreement that puts US dollar 570,000 dollars at the disposal of the UNDP for the implementation of planned activities, while the UNDP will parallelly finance $160,000 from its own funds. The implementation of the project includes the Ministry of State Administration and Local Self-Government as a project promoter, while the UNDP will provide administrative and technical support in connection with the engagement and supervision of the work of the project implementation unit for which the funding from the Ministry of State Administration's budget will be used, and in accordance with the UNDP-Secretary of State Administration's Agreement. Implementation units will be responsible for carrying out project activities in accordance with the bank's policy and rules for the financing of investment projects. The funds needed to cover the project's costs, estimated worth around 30m euros, will be provided from the EIB loan, with the assistance of 22m euros, representing 75% of the project's value, while the local self-government unit from its own resources will finance at least 15% of the investment value. On the basis of the closure of the financial contract, credit assets shall be provided under the following conditions. Direct borrowing of the Republic of Serbia to 22m euros, a promoter of the state administration, supported by the UNDP, as an implementation partner. The credit repayment period will be 25 years, including a period of start of five years. The interest rate shall be determined when withdrawing each tranche, in particular with the possibility of selecting a fixed or variable interest rate. The fixed interest rate marks the annual interest rate set by the bank in accordance with principles that occasionally determine the administrative bodies of the bank for loans expressed in the euro currency. The variable interest rate shall mean an interest rate at an annual level equal to the six-month Euribor, plus a certain range that the bank determines for each reference period, and the range shall be determined for the entire tranche payment period. When withdrawing the tranche, the borrower has the option to choose between the annual, half-yearly and quarterly payments of the principal without paying the bank an affordable fee and fees on undrawn funds. The fixed interest rate tranche shall be paid in annuities or wars with an equal share of the principal. The credit is realised in a maximum of ten tranches with a minimum tranche of 2m euros, with the first tranche unable to exceed 2.2m euros. The loan availability period shall be at least four years from the date of conclusion of the financial contract as necessary for the implementation of the project. The withdrawal of the tranche following the payment of the first tranche will be possible when 80% of the total amount of all previously withdrawn tranches are agreed and 50% of the value of the contracted works paid to the contractors. The possibility of early repayment of any tranche or part of any tranche is foreseen if it is estimated to be more favourable from the public debt management point of view, with the payment of all the commitments made on the basis of interest and other costs of the bank. The next proposal is a law on the validation of the Financial Treaty – a framework for strengthening resilience and local infrastructure between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank. The financial agreement – The framework for strengthening the resilience of local infrastructure between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank was signed in Luxembourg on 29 April 2019 and in Belgrade on 7 May 2019, amounting to 40,000,000 euros. The project financed includes the reconstruction, modernisation and expansion of the water infrastructure system and the sewage infrastructure system. Given the state of water industry, water and sewerage infrastructures and the fact that municipal and local self-government units do not have sufficient resources for their comprehensive reconstruction, modernisation and expansion, implementation of the project in general through investment investments at local level will enable the reduction of water loss in systems, and thus the cost of municipal enterprises, mitigates environmental problems, not cleaning up waste water and their direct release into water streams and create better conditions for citizens' lives. For a number of years, the price of the municipal water supply and draining service does not allow covering the operating costs of the existing system, and cannot be a source for large investment cycles and development of the municipal economy. Insufficient investment in adequate treatment of waste water through the construction of a sewerage network, collectors and purifiers, polluted water streams, groundwaters and land has taken an unfavourable situation, leading to a poor state of municipal infrastructure in the Republic of Serbia. Our country, according to the construction of sewage infrastructure, belongs to a group of medium-developed countries, while with regard to the treatment of wastewater at the very beginning. The reconstruction and construction of the water infrastructure has so far been invested in line with the financial resources available, with priority being emergency interventions and rarely or not accessing its comprehensive reconstruction. The aim is to increase the extent of coverage of public water systems, but also to set new spending management priorities, by taking measures and activities at all levels to rehabilitate old water systems, reduce water loss, increase economic efficiency and raise consumers' awareness of water value. Realisation of the project's estimated value of around 80,000,000 euros in co-operation with the European Investment Bank is a significant step in this direction. In addition to 40,000,000 euros in credits provided by the European Investment Bank, the remaining 50% of the project will be co-financed by the European Union's grants, the Republic of Serbia's budget and local self-government contributions. The implementation of a project supporting the reconstruction or construction of a water supply and sewerage system in municipalities affected by the migrant crisis, floods and the consequences of other natural disasters that have hit the Republic of Serbia in recent years has been the responsibility of the Public Investment Management Office, which will play the role of promoters and set up a project implementation unit. The loan is granted under the following financial conditions. The debt of the Republic of Serbia is 40m euros. Promotion – Public Investment Management Office. The repayment period is 30 years, including a period of start of five years. The interest rate shall be determined when withdrawing each tranche, in particular with the possibility of selecting a fixed or variable interest rate. The fixed interest rate marks the annual interest rate set by the bank, in accordance with principles that occasionally determine the administrative bodies of the bank for loans expressed in the euro currency. The variable interest rate shall mean an interest rate at an annual level equal to the six-month Euribor, in the event that Euribor has a negative value shall be determined as zero, plus a certain range determined by the Bank for each reference period. The range is determined for the entire tranche payment period. When withdrawing the tranche, the borrower has the option of choosing between the annual, half-yearly and three-month repayments of the loan, without paying the bank an affordable fee and fees on undrawn assets. The fixed interest rate tranche shall be paid in annuities or wars with an equal share of the principal. The credit is realised in a maximum of 20 tranches with a minimum amount of a 1m-euro tranche, while the first tranche will be at a maximum of 12m euros. It won't be paid more than one tranche a month. The duration of the loan is five years from the date of conclusion of the financial contract, with the possibility of an extension. The possibility of early repayment of any tranche or part of any tranche is foreseen if it is estimated to be more favourable from the public debt management point of view, with the payment of all the commitments made on the basis of interest and other costs of the bank. The next item on the agenda is the draft law confirming the loan agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The Tax Administration Modernisation Project aims to improve the effectiveness of tax collection and reduce the cost of meeting tax obligations. The loan agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development was signed in Belgrade on 7 May 2019 totaling 45,300,000 euros. The project covers four components. The first component is the legal framework. This component aims at removing a large number of restrictions on the wider legal framework and the environment of public tax policies in which the Tax Administration operates, which will contribute to bringing domestic legislation into line with European Union standards, enables a comprehensive approach to governance based on an assessment of possible risks and improves compliance with tax obligations. The second component is the organization and work of the Tax Administration. The activities will be carried out under this component and will lead to improvements in various functional areas in which the diagnostics, the assessment of the tax administration identified shortcomings, relate to: the registration of taxpayers, risk management, voluntary fulfilment of tax obligations, tax control, decision-making in the tax procedure and the effectiveness of the work of the Tax Administration in a broader sense. The third component is the modernisation of information and communication technology systems and the management of records. Activities under this component should contribute to improving quality and increasing the scope of ICT services provided by the ICT system and addressing the significant challenges facing the Tax Administration in the field of record management, including the resolution of a significant number of accumulated tax paper documents. The fourth component is project management and change management. The results achieved under this fourth component of the project will contribute to the achievement of the vision of the Tax Administration for the Future, to set up an organisation characterised by electronic business and administration body to the needs of taxpayers that provides the highest quality services and is equipped with effective mechanisms to ensure compliance with the rules based on estimates of possible risks with the application of ICT solutions that allow the Tax Administration to use its limited resources in an effective manner, in order to optimise the collection of public revenues in favour of the Republic of Serbia. The financial terms of the loan are – the amount of debt is 45,300,000 euros, the amount of loans is expressed in the euro equivalent, so the euro rate is applied according to the US dollar 1,149-1, on 31 January 2019. The withdrawal of the loan will be conducted in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement. The maturity is 15 years, with a five-year period included, so the repayment period is the principal loan period of 10 years, and the principal will be paid in equal half-year wars, of which the first war reaches May 15th 2024 and the last 15th of November 2033. The duration of the loan is until 31 October 2024. Access fee is 0.25% on the total amount of loans, i.e. 113,250 euros, will be paid once from loan funds. The fee for undrawn funds is 0.25% on the annual level for the undrawn amount of the principal. Interest rate. The borrower pays interest on 15 May and 15 November each year for each interest period at the reference rate for the loan currency. The 6-month Euribor was increased by a fixed margin of 0.70%. The possibility is also provided that the borrower may at any time request the conversion of interest rates or margins from fixed to variable, and vice versa. The loan agreement provides for the use of the retroactive financing mechanism, which implies the refunding of the costs of World Bank loans of a maximum amount of 500,000 euros for the purpose of launching the procurement, for the employment services of staff within the project implementation unit of consulting services, for the analysis of the management of documents and archiving and consulting services for the analysis of the option of fiscalisation prior to the ratification of the Loan Agreement, i.e. the compensation for all payments at the pre-specified basis of the implementation, before the date of signing of the Loan Agreement and starting from 7 February 2019, including that date. Next, on the agenda is the draft law confirming the loan agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the loan agreement on a project to improve trade and traffic in the Western Balkans, with the application of a multi-phase programme approach, between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, signed in Belgrade on 7 May 2019, totaling 335m euros. The operational objective of the loan is to deepen trade integration for the Western Balkans 6, as part of a growth strategy based on productivity gains, and this goal will be implemented through a multi-phase programme approach, which represents the new funding mode of the bank, which corresponds to long-term large, or complex engagements, as a set of smaller related operations, a phase within a single programme. The programme is implemented in two phases, which will be implemented over a period of five years, at each stage. The countries, covered by the first phase of the programme, are Albania, Northern Macedonia and Serbia. The project for the Republic of Serbia is primarily a regional project aimed at reducing trade costs, increasing efficiency, transport in the Western Balkans. The project covers four components. The first component is, relief for cross-border movement of goods and will be realised through two sub-components. The first sub-component is the adoption of the implementation of the system of a national, single counter, the project will provide support for the creation, development and implementation of a national one-stop shop solution and related reforms and modernisation of customs services and other border management bodies, with a view to improving the transparency of integrity, reducing trade transaction costs, improving and co-ordination between state authorities and reducing the time needed for customs duties. The second sub-component is the development of an electronic document exchange system at seven key railway crossings. The second component is to strengthen the efficiency and predictability of traffic, through the provision of support for smart traffic systems, through the procurement and installation of equipment such as the traffic data collection system, through induction relays, installed in August and traffic through induction cables installed in August, a rolling system, elements for control of vehicle heights, which use highways, weather data collection systems along highways and a system for detecting dangerous load transport. It also includes providing support to improve certain rail crossings, in order to improve safety and efficiency, signalling and interoperability, such as the development of a system for security, accessibility, sustainability and security, for better maintenance and safety of rail infrastructure. The third component is to improve market access, to trade services and investment funds for the realisation of this component are provided by EU funds. The fourth component is support for the implementation project. The results achieved under these four components of the project will contribute to the improvement of trade flows in goods, services and investments within the Western Balkans 6 and with the EU, as well as to increasing integration and economic growth. The financial terms of the loan are the amount of the 35m-euro debt, the amount of the loan is expressed in the euro against the value, by applying the euro rate to the US dollar 1,145 per euro on 31 December 2018. The withdrawal of the loan will be conducted in accordance with the provisions of the loan agreement, the maturity is 12 years, with a three-year period included, so that the repayment period of the principal loan will be nine years, and the principal will be paid in equal half-year war, of which the first war reaches May 15th, 2022, and the last 15th of November 2030. The duration of the loan is 15 December 2025. The access fee is 0.25%, the total amount of loans is 87,500 euros, will be paid once from the loan funds. The calculation shall start after the expiry of the 60-day period following the date of signature of the loan agreement. The fee for not withdrawing funds is 0.25% on the annual level, at the unrestricted amount of the principal. The interest rate, the borrower will pay a half-year interest rate, 15 May and 15 November each year, for each interest period at the reference rate for the loan currency, the six-month Euribor, increased by a fixed margin of 0.5%. The possibility is provided that the borrower may at any time request the conversion of the interest rate or the margin from fixed to variable and vice versa. The next before you is the proposal for a law confirming a loan agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The loan agreement, a project to improve the electronic administration between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, was signed in Belgrade on 7 May 2019, worth 43m 800 000 euros. The electronic administration promotion project aims to improve access to the quality and efficiency of selected administrative services by electronic administrations. The main objective to achieve is by realising the project to increase the quality of services, using information communication technologies and making significant savings by eliminating the process of repeating the process and losing due to long-term procedures, which will contribute to greater trust in the administration and satisfaction of end-users of public services. Reduce the burden of administration for economic operators and citizens and create a more efficient public administration. The development of eGovernment is also one of the most powerful tools in the fight against corruption and the grey economy, given that the introduction of eGovernment informs business processes and significantly reduces the impact of the human factor on the realisation of the complete service. The project provides three components. The first component of the basis for providing digital services with the aim of establishing the necessary basis for supporting the use of information and communication technologies and providing public services to citizens and businesses, including standards, procedures and digital infrastructure. The second component is the transformation of services for citizens, businesses and government. The aim of this component is to improve the internal business process in order to reduce administrative burdens and increase the efficiency of the provision of services. The third component is the development of digital skills, strengthening institutions and managing changes. In addition to the loans provided by the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development to cover 95% of the project's project costs, the remaining costs will be co-financed by the Republic of Serbia of five million US dollars equivalent to 4.38m euros. The financial terms of the loan are the amount of the debt of 43m 800 000 euros, the amount of loans expressed in euro against the values by applying the euro rate according to the US dollar 1,142 to 1 euro on 28 February 2019. The withdrawal of the loan will be conducted in accordance with the provisions of the loan agreement. The minimum amount of tranche to withdraw 500 000 euros and a maximum of 4m euros. The maturity is 15 years with a five-year period included so that the repayment period is ten years, and the principal will be paid in equal half-year wars, the first of which reaches May 15th 2024 and the last of which on November 15th 2023. The duration of the loan is 30 June 2024. An access fee of 0.25% to the total amount of loans, i.e. 109,500 euros, will be paid once out of the loan funds. Compensation for non-retired funds 0.25% on an annual basis to the amount of the principal not withdrawn. The interest rate is that the borrower pays the interest rate on 15 May and 15 November each year for each interest period at the reference rate for the loan, the six-monthly Euribor increased by 0,70%. The possibility is also provided that the borrower may at any time request the conversion of interest rates and margins from fixed to variable and vice versa. The loan agreement provides for the possibility of using the retroactive financing mechanism, which implies a refund of the costs of loan funds of a maximum amount of four million euros from 11 March 2019 until the date on which the loan agreement becomes effective. Then on the agenda is the draft law confirming the LD1981 2018 loan framework agreement between the Council of Europe Development Bank and the Republic of Serbia to finance the public sector, i.e. the improvement of health care infrastructure in Serbia. A framework loan agreement signed with the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe in Belgrade on 4 April 2019 and in Paris on 15 April 2019 granted a loan to the Republic of Serbia to finance health infrastructure and hospital equipment in selected health institutions across Serbia totaling 200m euros. The project envisions investing in construction, expansion and rehabilitation of about 18 health institutions across the Republic of Serbia, covering secondary and therapeutic health centres. The project will also cover health centres in the following cities: Arandelovac, Valjevo, Vranje, Gornji Milanovac, Zaječar, Kladovo, Kraljevo, Leskovac, Loznica, Majdanpek, Paracin, Pirot, Prokuplje, Smederevo, Smederjevska Palanka, Sremska Mitrovica, Subotica and Ćupria. The funds of the future loan were planned to support the already existing state budget investments in the health sector, complementing the current insufficient issues for health infrastructure at all levels of funding. This would cover about 30% of investment needs for infrastructure maintenance during a three-year period with a focus on improving infrastructure at secondary and therapeutic level of health care through investments in modernising small, medium and larger hospital institutions of specialised protection. The management of the health care system in the Republic of Serbia is carried out by the Ministry of Health, which determines health policy, standards and mechanisms of control but performs and controls of quality. The Institute of Public Health "Dr Milan Jovanovic Batut", which collects and analyzes data on the health system, proposes measures to improve the health system, proposes an annual plan for the work of health institutions and the Republic Health Insurance Fund to fund public health. The estimated value of the project is at least 350m euros, of which the bank will finance up to 60% of the project in accordance with its business policy, so that the loan appropriations will be used for budget allocations for qualified sub-projects. Qualified costs for this type of loan are investments that are currently being carried out as well as maintenance contracts costs, and they can be extremely necessary for the sustainable provision of public services. It is not possible to finance payments and similar fees through this type of loan, as well as financial costs, such as various types of taxis, fees and so on. The Public Investment Management Office is responsible for the implementation of the project as a project implementation body. The above-mentioned framework agreement puts the Republic of Serbia at its disposal under the following conditions: the amount of the loan is 200m euros. The borrower shall have the possibility of fixed and variable interest rates when withdrawing the tranche. The fixed interest rate shall mean the annual interest rate determined by the bank in accordance with the criteria defined periodically by the administrative bodies of the bank for loans expressed in euro which will be determined when withdrawal of each credit tranche and valid for the total period of repayment and tranche. The current interest rate on loans from this bank is below 0.5% per year. The variable interest rate shall be equal to either three months or six months' euros increased or reduced by a certain percentage range determined by the bank when withdrawing the tranche. The credit is realised in at least two tranches. The amount of the first tranche shall not exceed 50% of the loan amount. The borrower may choose when withdrawing the tranche whether the payment of the loan will take place in the annual, half-yearly wars, and access to fees and fees on undrawn funds shall not be paid. For each withdrawn tranche, the borrower shall have the option of selecting a period of 15 to 20 years, including a period from the beginning to the five years. The borrower shall submit a request for payment of the first tranche within 12 months of the date of entry into force of that loan framework agreement. For the purpose of submitting each of these requests for withdrawal of the tranche of loans, it shall not be more than 18 months. The final date for the availability of credit funds is 30 June 2023. I propose to the National Assembly that in the voting day they cast votes to vote on these laws that will certainly contribute to the development of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you for...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-15-0.u54224	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Moving on, moving on. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Does anyone want to sign up? (Yes) The word is Mr. Milorad Mircic, here's a colleague of Mircic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-15-0.u54225	Ladies and gentlemen, we have before us the proposals for a deal that the Serbian government on one hand signs with different loans. I'm sorry, there's been a disturbance around the microphone.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-15-0.u54226	I hear it. Here, now the microphone will be replaced. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-15-0.u54227	I guess it's gonna be okay now, I guess. When we look at all these contracts, on the occasion it is worth about two billion euros, it may be some 100,000 more or less, but two billion euros is a significant sum, i.e. a significant figure, given that the total debt of the Republic of Serbia is 23 billion euros. Why do we in the SRS stress this, for a simple reason, to distract the public and the Serbian government from having to deal with any contracts in the future and with whom they sign those contracts, or under what conditions they sign such contracts. We here have a proposal for two contracts that is very important when it comes to Serbia's infrastructure system. It's, first of all, these contracts with Exima Bank from China, Export-Import Bank, so the Exim bank, which is worth $1,500,000. A billion dollars is a Chinese loan, because the bank is the president, the Chinese government's representative, is a loan to be used to modernise the Novi Sad-Kelebi Stock Line, or borders. The railway is very important and important, as is the section of the highway on Corridor 11 and it is clear to everyone that it is of multiple importance and interest to complete this section of the railway, i.e. complete reconstruction of the Belgrade border with Hungary, to Kelebia, as well as this "Corridor 11" connecting Serbia with the port of Bar. Why? Because the port of Bar, as it would say, is of life interest and importance to the Republic of Serbia, regardless of what the current, current, criminal regime of Milo Djukanovic seeks to distance itself more politically than Serbia, it is impossible to infrastructure, because we see that Montenegro has also started building and modernising roads leading towards Serbia. It's very important for us here that the dynamics of the work being done, and therefore the dynamics of the withdrawal of funds from this credit line be harmonised and synchronised. Why? Because, whether the Government knows it or not, I suppose the Finance Resolute Minister and how well he knows it, but the public is not familiar, Serbia pays no small funds on behalf of the pen, for the funds that are granted, which are not used or not yet in use. The amount of those funds paid on behalf of unrestricted funds is now close to 2m, or over 2m euros. The truth is, earlier, it was much more, earlier it was 7m euros, but it was, as they would like to say, those of the ruling coalition during the former regime. Now some dynamics are being made, these two million are being paid because either there are no prepared projects or no regulated legal property relations, so they cannot be realised by the loans granted to Serbia, but Serbia is not yet in a position to realise them. It's not just about this amount of two million we pay in the name of the penalty, it's about negligence, about something called the prospectus when it comes to working and seriously dealing with politics, that is, the executive authority takes it so that it can work on a delay, that there's a lot of time, but it's all paid, especially when it comes to these international contracts. What is very important and important, which the SRS has always insisted on is that it is finally starting to seek an alternative for credit lines, not only in Western European countries and not to be in those banks that are directly controlled by the IMF, or the World Bank. In this case, we see that co-operation with China is important and successful not only because there are available resources and sufficient resources for infrastructure projects, but there is also one dynamic and respect for the dynamics of the implementation of the project. This was best shown by previous investments the minister listed, where Chinese performers, i.e. investors, proved to be correct partners. They are also correct in the part where their interests are represented, and especially for us in Serbia, it means that there are no criminal points or something that would cost additional funding to the state of Serbia. We in the SRS continue to insist on seeking better and greater co-operation with the Russian Federation. Of course, we also have when it comes to the reconstruction of the railway, Stara Pazova – Novi Sad one credit line and reconstruction of the railway Belgrade – Pančevo credit line that we took from the Russian Federation. We have very bad experience here. The credit line dates back to a period when the DS was as uncut as the SNS is now uncut when it comes to the government and the functioning of the government. That's when they withdrew billions of U.S. dollars from the Russian Federation. At that time, however, 200 million were asked to cover the budget deficit, which was critical of the continued functioning of the budget, i.e. the functioning of the Serbian state. That's the 800 million left. Of these 800 million were announced that the railway section, the reconstruction of Stara Pazova railway – Novi Sad will be completed by 2018. Here, we're already in 2019, and there's nothing of it. Why? For the simple reason that we were in a position to pay certain criminal points for unrealised, unrealised assets on behalf of that loan. In 2016, we were in a position to demand the prolonging of the use of this loan, i.e. paying annuity, because we were not ready for the work needed to reconstruct the section of the railway Stara Pazova – Novi Sad. It cost the state Serbia 37m euros. It's not a meaningless number at all, even, what's more, it's something that's warning. Of course, the Russian Federation is tolerated when it comes to these kinds of obligations, so in some way it had understanding, delayed, expanded and now Russian companies, or the Russian State Railway, which is trained and specialized in the construction of railways and the reconstruction of railways, they are already in the business of reconstructing this section of Stara Paz – Novi Sad. It's important to note that, out of the 800 million, only 435 million were withdrawn in the name of that so-called. Russian loan. It should be thought that as soon as there is a withdrawal of all funds so that we do not get back in or get into a situation where we pay unnecessaryly that tight interest. All these loans that were taken from both China and Russia have one big advantage, which is that they have a fixed interest rate. There is one standard that regulates when it comes to withdrawing funds or, more specifically, the payment of undrawn funds. That's about 0.75%, and that doesn't differ anywhere in the world, but what's a big advantage, not the Chinese bank, or the Chinese government, or the Russian financials insist on paying those so-called. tight interest, so that's another advantage in relations and business arrangements with China and Russia. We have an example here in these contract proposals, where the European Investment Bank and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development offer us at first sight one loan aid for the development of local self-government, for the development of health care and for the support of underdeveloped municipalities. When you look at these contracts, you will see that behind this well-intentioned aid lies something called the interest of the one who offers such assistance and that interest in the sense that with as little means of engagement as possible, and as many advisory roles and their projects as possible, he owes Serbia additionally for not small funds. The funds, when seen in total, have already exceeded two and a half billion euros on the issue of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. When it comes to the European Investment Bank, it is already over a billion and 300m euros. It's a very, very significant asset. Considering that Serbia, broadcasting so-called Eurobonds, based on three billion and 200 million commitments, are not small funds to be taken into account. Namely, when we have all this in mind, and here it is always better, if possible, to find co-operation with Chinese or Russian banks or investors, than it is well-intentioned, as they say, European banks for development and investment. They are looking at the development of investment where their political interest is, where they can bring, if possible, into the debt relationship of the one they give money to, in this case, Serbia. If that were true, we have a situation that is related to recent negotiations on the possible construction of a section of the highway from Preljina to Pojat. We have a proposal and an initiative to build the Niš-Merdare-Pristina highway. This is the “way of peace. ” Whoever gives him that name can't be understandable to anyone, but what can we do? You have these names and how educational, good, real, realistic in life. It is indeed the "way of peace" that binds Nis, Merdare and Pristina. In Pristina, all good intentions and everyone insists on peace with Serbia, or related to Nis, that they have even introduced these customs taxes, but let's not deal with it now. Procedurally, it's not in the first place. What they are announcing is connecting the highways of Belgrade and Sarajevo. Why are these three projects interesting? Because he's the same artist. The performer is an American company called Bechtel. How do we know he's a performer? Well, that's already known, it's been made public. The government has come out with an official stance, the resolute minister has already held talks in our own way when it comes to this highway from Preljina to Pojat. Even in London, the resolute minister or minister, as you will, has done this historic meeting, as they say. Why historically with representatives of an American company? Because we were persuaded immediately after the meeting that it was not just an investment related to this infrastructure, but that it was of particular importance to Serbia. Imagine what that means when they point out -- the special importance of the arrival of an American company, especially the construction of a highway. Only anyone interested could have been interested in the Bechtel company to obtain basic data. "Bechtel" is actually something that works and works under the auspices of the US intelligence service. Bechtel is present in many world countries, but it is the most present in those where Americans, through investment or through investment, which is implemented by Bechtel, prepare the ground for a coup, for the dominantness of their policy, etc. The Americans themselves say there is a dead race between Coke and Bechtella. Where Coca-Cola is, there is an American policy, where Bechtel is, there is the same policy as American. And it's of special importance. What does that mean for Serbia? In particular, in this project relating to the Preljina-Pojate Highway, this means 300 million additional funds to be allocated to Serbia to satisfy Americans, namely the American company Bechtel. Why 300 million? Because the offer made by the Chinese company is 500 million to build this highway. Minister of Resorni Zorana Mihajlovic found it better to take the Bechtel company American and give them 800 million, 300 million more than the Chinese are looking for and what they would end this highway. How do you explain that? It is explained by saying that Bechtel is a mixed company, a company with a Turkish company, together carrying out works, and they have otherwise proven themselves on the construction of the Pristina-Morina Highway, where the Turkish government invested a billion dollars. Imagine an incomparable argument when it comes to Serbia, when it comes to investments in Serbia. So why do we care that the Turkish government has singled out a billion to honor one part of its company and most of its company and the American company? They can throw as much money as they want because they own it and we don't interfere, but 300 additional million to make Serbia in debt on behalf of the loan, it's out of mind. It's always in normal systems, in normal conditions, the least they'd ask for is responsible, and in this case, the Prime Minister and the President of the State, to offer the resolute minister a resignation. I do not believe that anyone in the ruling party would be against this resignation, not only because of these projects, but because of what the resolution minister has been doing or doing in the past, but that it has climbed to the top of everyone's head and in the ruling coalition and in its own party, although it is the "enta" party in a row. But that it wouldn't have been if we had worked bravely, when there was no Minister of Resistance, something that is inadmissible to treat the budget funds or the funds of the citizens of Serbia. Three hundred million is a very significant sum and it must not be allowed. For the construction of the highway, each, the tender should be called, it should be seen who gives the most favourable conditions, who is the cheapest, and has the quality of the construction, and therefore the SRS insists that this positive practice continues with Chinese investors, or performers, and that in the next period, when it comes to such capital projects in terms of infrastructure, as many domestic products and domestic performers are involved in the work, because the investor will build on its equipment, such as the Stara Paz-Novi Share now, when it comes to electrification, when it comes to auxiliary facilities, is not to be praised. We must insist on and use good will and positive affection of the Russian Federation to include both our producers and our contractors, and therefore the SRS cannot vote for all these contracts because these contracts from the European Investment Bank, the Development Bank, contain the most of these advisory parts and parts relating to paperwork, and not to something that Serbia can benefit from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-15-0.u54228	Thank you, colleague Mircic. The word is made by Minister Zoran Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-15-0.u54229	Thank you. I thank you for the constructive dialogue, and we are aware that during some earlier period the loans were not exactly in our state and were, I think, hidden from the public and I don't think that in some earlier period you've ever had the opportunity to hear all this detail and that the Government of the Republic of Serbia tells you in one transparent way that we want and why we want to take some credit and what it will be spent on and under what conditions. This poor policy that was before 2012 has just led to a public debt that is over 70% of GDP. Today, thanks to the household management, the financing of today's day is 51% and this task that you have before you and what you need to give your vote is that we will not suddenly be in charge of two billion, and it will not increase our public debt, but certainly only what is withdrawn by the tranches will affect public debt. I believe that with our responsible policy in the coming period, we will succeed in making some more of the bad loans we have managed to repay and thus further reduce our public debt. What is also important for the citizens of Serbia is that they should know that this government is not to blame for some of the loans that have been withdrawn in an earlier period, which have been withdrawn without having clear projects and that what you said today is the price that we are paying together today, and that was the responsibility that was precisely those that are not present, who do not want to discuss this and take responsibility for what we all today and Serbian citizens are paying for. We cannot reroute these loans and change our purpose, but we can certainly work on building projects so that at least we can withdraw these loans and that what they are intended for, and are for the citizens of Serbia to contribute to the development of our country right now. We will try to make sure that in the next period whenever we have the opportunity and whenever there is a possibility that all credits that are badly withdrawn during an earlier period will be paid off. I believe that this will create more space for more important projects like these projects that are in front of you today. I think we have great potential to build our infrastructure, because as you know, the development of one infrastructure speaks of the development of a country, it tells us how capable you are of attracting investment. At this level today we have, I mean, quite a satisfactory number of investments. There's room for them to be even more. I believe that in the years ahead of us, together with these investments, Serbia will become competitive and Serbia will be far ahead of the countries in the region and become a leader in the region and perhaps beyond. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-15-0.u54230	Thank you, Minister. The right to replica has Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-15-0.u54231	That is exactly what it is, Minister, to say for yourself that an increase in public debt is something that is highly warning for Serbia. The increase in public debt took place in 2015. If you follow the borrowing dynamics, then you will see a sharp jump in Serbia's debt in 2015. Of the 15 billion Serbia, the total public debt of Serbia, we have reached 23 billion and that is what we Serbian radicals are talking about. When you add up all the investments that have been carried out in Serbia since 2015 and Serbia's total debt since 2015, there is a very large difference between what has been realised through investments, through contracts like this or similar and from what is total debt in that period. We're interested in where that difference is? Where's the difference from those eight billion where you have a total of five billion covered? (Marian Risticevic: Kamate. There's three billion missing somewhere. You know, three billion, it can't be that, it's for the first or second grade of elementary school, like someone throws out of the O.R. and they can't hear the citizens, they're interest. It's impossible. It's missing somewhere. Either the deficit has been covered, an existing deficit that was found in 2015 or managed unintendedly by those funds. We see and state this example here, and we will always point out that example, unintended spending and debauchery when it comes to budgeting the American company. It's not just an American company. Ask God how many companies there are. We agree with you, too. We need to bring it all to the public. The public needs to know for what reason Serbia is in debt from 2015 to today, what is the reason? When we see investment, investment in infrastructure, in railways, in roads, it's always justified, we're just interested in where the other investments are? Are they realized or will they be realized? We don't have any sign of it, and that's what we're talking about, and that's what we want the public to know, to know where the funds are, where the difference is in these means.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-15-0.u54232	Thank you, Mr. Mircic. Minister Zoran Djordjevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-15-0.u54233	I agree with you that any borrowing increases the debt of the country, each borrowing increases that public debt ratio towards GDP, but it does not matter whether your gross domestic product or gross social product is on one level or higher. We, of course, are developing our country, increasing our gross domestic product and, of course, creating ourselves an opportunity to borrow more. As you saw here when I read, I say when the first tranche retreats, when the last tranche, under what conditions. In the earlier period, between 2000 and 2012, you didn't have a clear borrowing plan, and of course when you want to abuse something, you can say that the biggest one was in that debt or the biggest public debt in 2015, as you say. Yeah, but that's because someone owed ten years before that, because he didn't have a plan, because he didn't have any projects and because he came to collect that year. That's the real reason. If you want to carry out public finances in one transparent way, take responsibility for it, then you have to work like this. Then you have to go to the citizens of Serbia, read as complicated or as hard as it is to read a big text like this, but it's the least you can do for the citizens of Serbia, tell them what you're in charge of, what it will look like, when it will pay off that loan and under what conditions and take responsibility for that loan. That's what this government does. So, as the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we're not one loan away from having any justification, or not to use it, or to have somewhere standing to pay for it. So, infrastructure projects in the Republic of Serbia are visible today, are being done today and are being implemented today. Besides, you see here, you can see exactly who's going to be carrying them out and who's responsible for it, etc. And you're the best example of whether or not to a Chinese company that's going to run a Chinese bank that's going to. So the responsibility is that we will clearly monitor the dynamics of the implementation of this project and the dynamics of spending money. In such circumstances, it's very difficult, or it can only come under some unforeseen circumstances to some delay, but I believe it won't happen because it's precisely with the best intention and with the best plan that we're getting into all of this. That's the difference between this government and the government that was until 2012.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-15-0.u54234	Thank you, Minister. Milorad Mircic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-15-0.u54235	The point is, why do we insist that we know about every dinar, that is, every euro being hired by the Serbian government, that is, the state of Serbia, on behalf of the loans they have taken. For the simple reason we see and on these examples, Minister Resorni ran around to provide as many projects as possible to the American company, and it is not based on these positive experiences, Mr Djordjevic, which you and we Serbian radicals are talking about, when it comes to the Chinese company, we do not have one single piece of information about what it is with the beginning of the work on the Novi Sad-Ruma-Shabac highway. It is of national economic interest to the state of Serbia, such as Corridor 11 and of economic and national interest. Corridor 10 is of the interest of both the Serbian states and the EU. And the EU will try to end it anyway, but this is of national interest to us because this highway connects Serbia with Republika Srpska. Is something done for this difference, as I said approximately three billion euros, is it possible to start with these works, or is it possible to sign a similar contract, as we have Preljina Požega, with a Chinese or Russian company, or with any other company whose country gives more favourable conditions for starting work on the Novi Sad-Ruma-Shabac highway? We've been listening so much to marketing announcements from the minister herself, they're about to start work. No more obstacles. We've passed a law here that was extorted, kind of extorted by Bechtel, that when it comes to property over land that there's no problem. There are no more problems in Serbia to wait with these works, no more problems here or when it comes to the project. The only question here is, where are the funds? The difference between what was on behalf of the loan from 2015 to 2019 was taken from Serbia from 15 billion to 23 billion. That's seven, eight billion. Total investment, when you look at it, when you add it up, it's about five billion. Three billion is missing. Is that in some projects that haven't been realised yet, that need to be realized? We need to know. If they're in the name of these projects, then we're paying for those penalties. We're paying that tight interest.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-15-0.u54236	Thank you, colleague Mircic. The People's MP Branimir Jovanovic came forward. Here's a colleague of Jovanovic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-15-0.u54237	Thank you. Dear Chairman, respected ministers, colleagues and colleagues, I will speak first of all about significant infrastructure projects financed on the basis of a loan from the Chinese Export Bank as an authorised institution of the Government of the People's Republic of China. These are the construction of the E-763 highway on the Preljina-Požega section and the modernisation and reconstruction of the railway on the Novi Sad-Subotica section. The realisation of these contracts is in fact an indicator of good co-operation between our country and China and is being implemented under the two countries' Economic and Technical Co-operation Agreement. I will list several successful examples that have been realized in the past, or some that are being realized. It is the first project to build the Zemun-Borca bridge with access roads, then build a bypass around Belgrade, as well as a project to modernise and reconstruct the railway network on the part of Belgrade-Stara Pazova. The loan agreement to build a highway on Corridor 11 from Preljina to Požega will provide $445m and that is the 85% stake in the loan, while the other 15% will be financed from the Republic of Serbia's budget. I expect the construction of this stock soon, given that all the preparatory actions have been carried out, more specifically those relating to the issue of building permits and those relating to land expropriation. This is one of the hardest shares to build on Corridor 11, first of all because of the fact that thirds of the shares from Preljina to Požega, actually that third are bridges and tunnels. But this part of the highway is of great importance, because when it is finished, when the highway reaches Požega, two arms move from there -- one foot towards Montenegro, and thus one path from Belgrade to Bolar will be completed, in the length of 258 km, it is the South Adriatic-Belgrade link, and the other leg will go from Požega to Kotoman and it will be part of the future Belgrade-Sarajevo highway. I will remind you that the end is expected soon on the section of Corridor 11 from Obrenovac to Ljig, and since it is already in the function of the shares from Ljig to Preljina, we will now have one course of 102 km of highway on this corridor and it is of great importance for the citizens of Kolubar and Moraviga County, but also for the citizens of Raško and the part of Rasin County. I purposely pointed out the people of Raško and part of the Rasin County, because I come from Raška County, from Kraljev, and the plan is for Corridor 10 and Corridor 11 to be joined by the Moravia Corridor, from Preljina to Pojat. A network of highways in Serbia will be completed this way. The Moravia corridor is worth 800m euros and will be 110km long. The corridor practically connects central Serbia, starting from Cačka, via Kraljev, Trstenik, Vrnjakbanja, Kruševac, to Cicevic. In this part of Serbia alone, about half a million people live, and I don't have to point out how important it is, not just for the development of the economy of this region, because there are 30,000 small and medium-sized enterprises in this area. It is also important for the development of tourism, as it will be easier to reach mountain and banana destinations. According to the World Trade Organisation's assessment, the money invested in the infrastructure leading to tourist centres is returned fourfold. This could be another benefit, except that new workers and construction operations will be involved in the construction of the highway. I'm going to do a crackdown, but it certainly refers to this agenda point, because in addition to the development of road traffic, the complete central Serbian infrastructure will also complete the opening of the Morava airport in the Kraljevci. Work is under way to expand and extend this path, and I expect that at the end of June they can land and take off civilian planes from Morava airport. So this part of Serbia, i.e. the citizens of Raško, Moravisky, Zlatiborski and Šumadi County, which is about 800,000 people, will be able to count on better conditions for the development of the economy, and I will remind you that only the Eurotaj factory recently opened in the Kingdom, but also the Leoni factory, which is a good signal for investors from this region. In order to realise a Hungarian-Serbian railway project connecting the two capitals of Hungary and Serbia - Budapest and Belgrade, it is important to adopt a loan agreement, and the funds from the loan will be invested in modernising and reconstructing the railway line on the route Novi Sad-Subotica, more specifically Kelebija. And here, as in the previous case, 85% will be financed from the loan and 15% from the Republic of Serbia's budget. The Belgrade-Budapest express track is one of the most valuable and important infrastructure projects in the region. This project is important not only for our country, but it is also important in the context of regional co-operation, regional integration, integration with EU Member States, but what may be the most significant, it is one link between the area of Central Europe and the port of Piraeus and the realization and implementation of the idea - one belt, one time. Modernising the railroad on this rail corridor will improve freight traffic, but our rail infrastructure will be in line with European standards. It is also on the agenda of the draft law on the validation of the Financial Treaty of the Partnership for Local Development between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank. It refers to the financing of about 40 cities and municipalities in the Republic of Serbia, but there are also certain restrictions here, i.e. certain conditions, which is that these cities and municipalities, or local self-government, have been affected by floods, by the migrant crisis, have a low degree of development, but have achieved good results in public administration reform. The money will be invested in the restoration of kindergartens, in street ice lighting, in the construction of green markets and in the reconstruction of local self-government buildings. It is very important that we strengthen local self-government, that they be functional, that local self-government authorities are effective and, most importantly, they are in the capacity to meet the needs of Serbian citizens. The SDPS MPs in the voting day will support the proposed contracts and agreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-15-0.u54238	Thank you. Do any of the other presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, come forward for a word? The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-15-0.u54239	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, he's a long, ugly friend. We know that best. Our problem in 2013, at the end of 2012 and in early 2013, was not only the height of the debt, but also that it was not a source for the repayment of the debt. The money that's in charge, and it's not 15 billion, but it was a sum of 17 comas something billion at the end of 2012. To that sum, add commitments that had to be served because of Agrobank and Metals, which were hundreds of millions of euros. Add interest to those sums. It's just, it seems to me, in the previous years, we paid for those commitments of 133 billion, which Mr. Arsic knows better than I do, 133 billion dinars of interest, which is 1.1 billion euros. Every year on these debts, and their interest rates were at their time and by 5%, 6%, unlike these low interest rates, at least 500, 600m euros per year were allocated for interest. There was a record 1.1. If you take that as a data, you will easily calculate that we have paid over five billion euros in the previous seven years of interest on the loans that have been raised, and that with these loans no source of how this debt is serviced. At that time, loans for pension payments were raised from domestic banks. Our internal debts to these banks, which are foreign banks that came in time, that Bosko Obradovic would know very well, now walks with those who brought foreign banks, foreign trade chains, etc., a debt to domestic foreign banks, to call them that, was also big. These internal debts were external because banks convert dinars into euro and transfer it to their home banks, so I call them. So they didn't leave a 15-point debt something or 17-point something billion, but with everything I've described, that debt was 25 billion. But you're all forgetting donor support. It amounted to over four billion euros, which were also spent in some period until 2013. You're all forgetting another source, except donor support, and these are privatisation revenues. They were 6.7 billion and they spent it very quickly without building anything. The country was completely abandoned and abandoned, with no chance for the present and future generations. I don't know how many miles of highways they made, but I think what was done was done in the first part of 2003, 2004. That's the part about the New Sad. They didn't make any of it, and we can share it like this. We're in construction now, building a state. The country is a complex and long-made product. The state can't make it quick. It must be raised gradually, since it was almost thrown into the dust, mud, or that it was a house of bare walls. Privatisation revenues have been spent and most of the capital has been sold for budget, total social capital, all social capital, and money has been taken out. According to an estimate of Financial Integration, the international organisation, over $50 billion was made in the first 11 years, by 2011. You're all forgetting another income they spent. It was the farewell of the Paris and London Club, which was close to five billion. So our debt would be far greater if the Paris and London Club, because of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the sanctions we have suffered, had not forgiven those nearly five billion. When you take how much money they spent, the previous, former regime, which I call a "joint criminal enterprise", did not just spend the 17.3 billion debt. That was 30 billion. You're all forgetting the interest we're still gonna pay, and we're even paying Tito's credit payments. Unlike them, something was built here. We're in construction. To describe plastically, Gilas and Jeremic were involved in the installation. So while we're in construction, they're in the building business. It seems to me that Bostic, Ljotic and Bastac are now engaged in decommissioning. So you've certainly seen how much effort the former regime is making, the alliance of frauds, thieves and yoltics to prove that because of the Kalemegdan fortress, we don't need, say, a cable car or a gondola. Here I have photographs of the fortress of Dubrovnik, the fortress of Dubrovnik. The fortress in Dubrovnik, believe it or not, has a wire, and that, I mean, since the 1970s, which may have been something renovated in recent years, but I don't understand, especially those of the alliance of thieves, con men and lotticians, that they hate their country so much. Their heart seems to be beating on red squares. Looks like they took an oath to the wrong state, not their own. So if there's anything good for Dubrovnik, I don't understand why it's not good for Belgrade. The cable company's revenues in Dubrovnik are 10m euros a year. I appreciate that in Serbia we'd be twice as big. So someone who only hates their country can be against building something and bringing income to the capital, and thus also to the Republic of Serbia. So, the huge efforts of Bastac, Bosko Ljotic and others are making to stop building, not to build anything. They're against the highways, they're against the gondolas, they're against Belgrade on the water, they're against everything that's being built, even against what they're up against, fountains, etc., so when they didn't, when someone else did, they're against it. So they weren't for construction, they were for installation, and now they're for decommissioning. Certainly the citizens should know. As far as highways and railways are concerned, we all know what they left behind. The track speed was the average speed of a diligence, and it certainly could not have entered the 20th century, let alone in the 21st century, and now huge resources and huge efforts to build infrastructure are being invested. I believe they didn't need roads and infrastructure. Roads and tracks are carried by goods and passengers. Production in their time almost didn't even exist. Exports were mostly limited to exporting our money taken from the poor rather. So, they're, in my opinion, rich poor people. Mr. Gilas, Mr. Jeremic is a wealthy poor man. Except for wealth, other than money, they have nothing else, neither are they rich in spirit nor are they rich in morality. They should know, and those who understand that in the state of Serbia, a paradise of the rich was built on a hell of the poor, fired and underpaid, those 400,000 people they fired. So there was no need for them to have railroads with a satisfactory speed, to have cars, to have railways, because the workers in them were almost all fired, that they didn't have to travel to work. They were deprived of their jobs, their wages, their dignity, so they were deprived of the railroads they were supposed to go to work with and come home from work. They were deprived of highways because they thought that people without a job didn't have to travel. We must build both railroads and roads. Given that, apart from imports of consumer goods into foreign trade chains, we must also deal with exports, small countries, such as Serbia, which spend foreign goods, etc., which have debts to be serviced, these countries can only develop if they have large exports, if they have investors that will provide for the production of goods, and the production of goods is the production of money. I believe the former regime's party wasn't thinking about it, because their main product was long and didn't know how to make money, it was just how to spend it. They watched only how to redistribute it among themselves. I've already described Vuk Jeremic whose main investor, whom he didn't even bring to the country, was Patrick Ho, who took seven million dollars, and it was his main thing to devote the public office to his private business, a very suspicious business, which is why his partners were convicted. Dragan Gilas was building a bridge on Ada. It's said here that something costs more, that some American company works and it costs more. I wouldn't go into it, I'm not an expert on construction, but they should have also said - the bridge on Ada, the price it was supposed to be paid was about a hundred million euros. The price paid has exceeded four times the price. Dragan Gilas, on the Ada Bridge, translated the thirsty across the water, according to me. He's connected two meat communities. That bridge could've made five. At the price of that bridge, he could have built at least five functional bridges on Savi. Almost every Belgrade street, you have witnessed a collapse in traffic in Belgrade, on the one hand, is for that money, and the sum is around 500m euros so far, and more for accessing traffic and tunnels takes twice as much, each Belgrade juice on one side of the old Belgrade and New Belgrade could connect. He wasn't the target, he was the target, as today's government sees that he has some vision of development, that he has a commission. Why does he need a vision? It was his main commission. What's he doing with construction? Its construction was only for installation and therefore the bridge cost four or five times more than the projected value. His private affairs developed, his wealth accumulated. Bill Gates, who we all know made money, gave 95% of his fortune to the poor. Dragan Gilas has taken his 500m euros from the poor, and I am responsible for that. Not 95%, he's almost 100% kidnapped. In the country we found, a poor, decapitated political, destroyed, economically devastated, militaryly powerless, rich and 500m euros in income is a disgrace to everyone other than Dragan Gilas. You can make vests out of his cheek. It's a penetrating cheek. From his cheek, you can make soles for soldier's hens. While Belgrade's mayor and National Investment Plan Minister, the head of the National Office, received 500m euros. While in public office in Belgrade, the city was in charge, Mr. Orlic, 1.2 billion were debts, obligations of the city of Belgrade and businesses from the city of Belgrade. Many city institutions and businesses have used the services of his companies. While he was successful as a private man, he was a failure as mayor. It is not too difficult for our viewers to conclude that it was an obvious spill, and today he is saying that he is a perspective along with Bosca Ljotic, along with Vuk's descendant, Vuk Jeremic, who robbed even the Chinese, who he later testified against. Bosko Ljotic, Vuk Jeremic, Dragan Djilas and that NIS salesman, who sold other than refineries, and oil and gas sites that are valued at five billion, which has prescribed a very small rent, which is why we cannot affect the price of gasoline today. The man's name is Borko Stefanovic, he's the one who's wearing some shirt to show how, maltene, like the sister-in-law used to, because of the sister-in-law shown some bloody pieces of clothing, so today he's waving with it trying to get back, but we don't have any more NISs. We no longer have any NIS, no refinery, no gas station, because Borko Stefanovic has already sold it. Dragan Gilas bought a parliamentary club, bought a head of the Parliament Club, bought a Marinika, bought a party. The only party he truly founded was a political party calling itself the "Serbian Dvori". A long time ago, the "Serbian Dvori" stopped being Serbian, one of Gilas' private firms whose right or left hand is now placed on the head of Dragan Djilas, Bosko Ljotic. They sold everything, sold ideas, sold property. They didn't build anything, and today we hear that whatever they're building, they're against building, they're supposed to have some other idea. Except for roadblocks, except for the blockade of certain construction sites they offered nothing else, nor can they offer to the citizens. So I fully support the construction of railways, the construction of roads, because infrastructure brings us investors. Investors bring not only new jobs, investors also bring new technologies where our students, our students can learn something, and can improve these technologies, can become appropriate experts. Besides losing many years, we've lost in these new technologies. We've lost in the way the goods are produced, we've lost a lot of things, but it's time for all of us together, for that trouble they left us to be the reason why we've gathered together, regardless of national commitment, religion, etc., to raise this country, to raise our heads and raise our flag. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-15-0.u54240	Thank you. The word is from a colleague of Snezana Paunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-15-0.u54241	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers with associates, respected colleagues, citizens and citizens of Serbia, we have before us a proposal for a more loan agreement, and how it usually happens when it comes to loan agreements, then there are full-fledged criticisms without the positive side of these contracts being seen. I will try to explain why the SPS MPs will absolutely support all these proposals in the voting day. In fact, the first among the contracts is the proposal for a law confirming the loan agreement for a privileged buyer for a modernisation and reconstruction project of the Hungarian-Serbian railway link in the territory of the Republic of Serbia for the Novi Sad-Subotic shares, namely the state border of Kelebija, between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Chinese Export Import Bank. What is particularly important is the co-operation of the state of Serbia and China, as not only the most human countries, but also the country at the very top of its both financial and economic success and as I said not only by number. Another important thing is that this share is actually an integral part of something called "The Belt and the Way", infinitely important to the state of Serbia. Extraordinary relations with China allowed the state of Serbia to be a significant point on the "Strends and Paths" tour and included, above all, in a large number of infrastructure projects. It is important for us to say that the strategic partnership and intensive political dialogue are currently at the highest level in history when it comes to Serbia and the Republic of China's relations. The way of silk for the 21st century will connect Serbia, although as a continental country, with China through the Indian Ocean and the Aegean Sea, from the Port of Piraeus with the high sea-land line across Greece and Macedonia, and through the rapid railway on the Belgrade-Budapest route for which the construction is actually used is actually this loan spoken of today. Why does it matter? First of all, it is important to stress that this partnership with China has its own tradition, that the Chinese participated in the construction of the “Michajlo Pupin” bridge, that it was then demonstrated that China also has the technical and absolute expertise to realise such projects, but that from that moment on, this co-operation was improved, primarily because the Government of the Republic of Serbia recognized the importance of co-operation with a country such as the Republic of China. I unequivocally expect our companies to participate in the realization of such a project, of course, those who have the opportunity to carry out the capacity of Chinese companies. This will be very important, first of all, and for the further work of such companies and beyond Serbia's borders, because at the moment you show that you can be a partner of Chinese companies, then you definitely don't have a limited market. What's also important to say is that when we talk about this share, we can freely say that it will be the first fast track in Eastern Europe. So on the topic of building this railway, i.e. realising the Belt and Paths, Serbia represents a leader in the region and important, not to say the most important, strategic partner of the Republic of China. It is therefore important to support one such loan agreement, which I mention, even the credit rate is so small that it is absolutely justified to be in charge of this way. The second thing I'm going to put an accent on is the Government of the Republic of Serbia programme on the partnership programme for the local development programme. These are contracts with the European Investment Bank, and they concern improvements and the development of local self-government, in fact 40 municipalities that are at a low percentage of development compared to the average in Serbia. It is important to stress that 70% of the value of this programme is financed from the European Investment Bank's loan, amounting to 22m euros. Twenty-five per cent of the necessary funds will be provided from the Republic of Serbia's budget, donor funds, UNDP funds, as well as from units of local self-government that are foreseen by the law to have a participation of at least 15%. Local self-governments, which unfortunately were affected by even weather disasters, floods, and in this sense suffered great damage, now thanks to this project, have the opportunity to improve and repair everything that happened in the past period. There are precise criteria by which these municipalities will be selected. The funds provided cover approximately 40 local self-governments. What is important is to say, above all, that this project concerns the repair and revitalisation of existing infrastructure, which is very important for small local self-government in Serbia, because good infrastructure opens up the possibility that in this effort invested by the Government of the Republic of Serbia to bring investors simply provide space for these smaller local self-governments to be a potential area in which one of the investors will appear and provide new jobs for our citizens. What is also important is that this project will finance and repairs, i.e. reconstruction of municipal administration facilities, public utility companies, as well as cooperative homes. When we say that, it's primarily about energy efficiency. It is also important to say that there is a plan to build local markets, which in every sense will stimulate local economic growth, first of all, the sale of local products, but also those hygiene conditions and the quality of trade will be increased, and thus the number of employees. When it comes to local self-government, there is an explanation of the Ministry of State Administration and a local self-government accent that has been placed primarily on green and cattle markets. I think it is important to stress that it is also about supporting local self-government in this regard. The largest number of farmers, by estimate, or by, I suppose, the project that the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government have done to identify which 40 local self-government is actually involved, the largest number of farmers and farmers on the market are grown within 30 kilometers of the market. This means that mainly these farms are the source of local businesses and that they will likely spend that money on their products in the local economy. So it's infinitely important to provide these people who are producers first of all with a space where they will be able by standards and by all rules and sell and profit from it, and perhaps to expand their jobs and thus engage in additional labour and reduce the number of unemployed. The accent will also be put on ice lighting and video surveillance. Both are infinitely useful because it is said first of all that the implementation of such projects brings its own benefits, both ultimately and in that part of ecology. So, unless there is one evil intention, if there is no need to access what the Government of the Republic of Serbia is doing in an effort to improve the life and standard of Serbian citizens, we have proposals for a loan law that truly deserves absolute support, because wherever loans affecting the infrastructure network, they are not spent any money, but rather money invested in the development and improvement of Serbia and Serbia's inhabitants in general. From all I repeat and underline once again, the SPS will absolutely support any draft law that is set before us, and in the debate in particular we will look more closely at all the proposals of the contracts we are discussing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-15-0.u54242	Thank you. The word is from a colleague, Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-15-0.u54243	Thank you, Chairman. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, today on the agenda in this set of laws, we have a proposal for a ratification of the credit borrowing agreement, two in relation to the Chinese Export-Import Bank, two in the European Investment Bank, three in terms of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and one in relation to the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe. It is important to say that anyone who is a lender, or lends loans, of course has certain interests. These interests, when we look at the political situation today in Serbia in 2019 and the one that was in 2010, 2011 and 2012, are quite the opposite, because today the loans we are talking about and agreements relate exclusively to infrastructure projects, which simply shows a serious, responsible policy led by the Government of the Republic of Serbia since 2012, when the SNS led by Mr. Vucic took responsibility for leading the state, until today when it is in the position of the president of the state, that it simply has its continuity. It shows essentially that we are today saying that in Serbia there are both Russian and Chinese loans and European loans, Azerbaijani credits and loans related to Turkish investors and that thanks to such policy management both east and west, Serbia is now really becoming a more developed state, just as the difference between when the state raises infrastructure loans, i.e. loans for infrastructure and when it raises for simple consumption, to increase wages and pensions, is talking about how responsible you are as statesmen and how responsible you are and are really able to lead Serbia to a better tomorrow. I'll tell you that by 2012 the loans my colleague Marijan Risticevic spoke of showed that the public debt of Serbia that was so talked about, those who today do not want to enter the hall, that they were in charge of Serbia for 15 billion euros, said they were hiding about how much they actually made the debt for all these years, because every next 2013, 2014, 2015, we had five years only interest to pay from 1.1 billion to 1.4 billion euros. So in five years, nearly five billion euros were paid to interest only. Don't forget that public companies' debts were led by business banks that also didn't actually go into public debt but hidden in special accounts, and don't forget that we had famous 38 firms in restructuring, or those they privatised, which didn't prove to be good, so they were returned practically to 100 thousand people receiving some poor salaries for companies that didn't work, costing the budget of the Republic of Serbia 750m euros a year, which in four years amounts to three billion euros. Therefore, this is all that awaited the government of Aleksandr Vukic and SNS, along with its coalition partners, to solve these problems – and when she was raising certain loans from Russian funds that were to replace certain salaries and pension payments and when it was to come to Serbian citizens and say that the money for the payout and pensions was gone, that we had to implement economic reforms, fiscal consolidation. Today we have so many good agreements and contracts that have been signed as some technical agreements in 2009, when we talk about the People's Republic of China. We are talking about China's Export-Import Bank, which was founded since 1994, is owned by the state under the direct management of the state council and financed by the state. Support for Chinese foreign policy, trade and investment and international economic co-operation shows that the Chinese side only has on the other side to negotiate certain credit lines for infrastructure, only when it has a truly responsible other side that has prepared projects that are exclusively from the infrastructure area, because they have proved to be the most responsible and the best, is it then ready to come out with one such agreement and sign agreements with certain countries. Serbia has obviously proved capable of such a thing that last year really signed almost three billion euros in project funding and as such goes into phase by section. Today we have on the agenda the part relating to the privileged buyer for the E765 highway construction project, meaning the Preljina-Požega share, which speaks of $445m, where it is about 85% of the project investment itself and we are talking about a loan contract relating to a project modernising the border crossing of the Hungarian-Serbian railway, especially the border of Kelebi, which is in fact the continuation of this project that needs to be revived, a travel and rail infrastructure in the direction of Belgrade-Budapest. We should therefore essentially provide a railway that will go at 200km per hour, which will provide us with a truly one European path through the European Union and which will show that, regardless of what you have Chinese investors, we, like Serbia, work with the best in certain projects relating to infrastructure. This shows that Serbia is really going its own development path that is talking about the last four years that we have a surplus in the budget. What does that mean? This means that we are making more income than we are spending, that with the development of infrastructure projects we are increasing investment. We must not forget that Serbia last year had 3.5 billion inflows of foreign direct investment, a total of more than the entire region of Western Balkan countries. So we show that we are truly extremely responsible and above all as citizens of Serbia, and then to our partners we are working with, and therefore I am not surprised that we have in this package today not only ratification of the agreement with the Chinese bank but also with the European Investment Bank, with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, as well as with the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe. When we said that the European Investment Bank signed its agreements on 11 May 2009 that it would release its own credit lines then today you said that there is this programme of partnership for local development that will approve 22m euros for certain projects, but will also provide so-called projects to strengthen the resilience of local self-government where 40m euros will practically approve for the withdrawal of certain investments relating to reconstruction, modernisation, expansion of sewage infrastructure, water infrastructure, and thus see these agreements as different means of financing. Doc, let's say Chinese partners give certain interest rates that are much less fixed. They immediately charge, for example, the cost of processing the credit, while certain, means the credit lines of the European Investment Bank show that their investments here through certain loans, are not intended to cost the processing of loans and fees for undrawn funds. Thus, there are certain realisation projects from 2018 to 2022 and there are different modalities in which different projects are financed. So I think that Serbia and the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Construction, as well as the Office for Public Investment and the Office for IT and the Tax Administration, have practically seen all the possibilities based on which certain projects should be realised and found the best way, in fact the best way to implement these projects. When we talk about loans from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, then we have three types of ratification of the agreement, one refers to the modernisation of the tax administration of 45.3m euros, then we have an improvement in trade and traffic in Western Balkan countries by 35m euros and an improvement in electronic administration services by 43.8m euros. The development of digitisation and the promise of this government of the Republic of Serbia that Serbian citizens will have an increasingly better approach in terms of the electronic services that the state needs to provide, to reduce the costs of unnecessary administration, to improve and facilitate work with help, indeed those projects that would lead to the introduction of IT and innovation in the contacts of the state and the citizens of Serbia themselves, shows that the government did not really deviate from its promises when Prime Minister Ana Brnabic presented her exposés here, and indeed should support it. After all, we have here seen from all sides, and when you look at these projects, relations related to both the modernisation of local self-government and the end when we talk about the Council of Europe Bank, we have an improvement of health institutions in 17 municipalities that are of great importance through funding of over 200m euros. You can see that the Ministry of Finance has formed a central fiduciary unit that will actually carry out professional management of these projects and call competitions for public procurement that should essentially be completed within the most effective time frame according to the legal provisions just to ensure that the best and most efficient way to implement all these projects. We are, in essence, showing as a state that we are able to talk tomorrow about some structural funding from EU funds, indeed, there are people in the Ministry of Finance who are able to actually run and manage these projects in the best and most efficient way possible. In voting day, I believe that such a set of agreements and ratifications should be supported not only by the SNS, which I have no doubt the MPs will support but also by those MPs who may not agree with the ruling coalition policy because these laws, these ratifications, these agreements will give one better tomorrow to all of us living in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-15-0.u54244	Thank you. With this discussion, we'd be done with today's work. We'll continue at 10.00 tomorrow. [[The session was suspended at 17.05 p.m.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fifth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find the sitting to be attended by 78 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 87 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić, Vesna Ivković, Zarko Obradović, Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary group, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure. The word has the People's Messenger Alexander Seselj.
