ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-14-0.u54069	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the fifth session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia this year. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sitting is attended by 87 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 129 MPs are present in the hall and that we have working conditions. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-14-0.u54070	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I ask the question to the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister, why the Republic of Serbia has not taken measures to retort against the Republic of Montenegro, after 11 citizens of Serbia have been convicted in a fake criminal trial, because of a fabricated crime, even two fictional Russians, who do not exist. The whole public could follow that trial and see that there was no evidence, that the process was based on false witnesses, otherwise criminals being blackmailed, bought, etc. The question arises – what can Serbia do? Serbia should, above all, start canceling some bilateral international agreements with Montenegro and those that are more in favour of Montenegro than Serbia, and there are plenty of them. Serbia would urgently have to withdraw an ambassador from Montenegro, cancel the hospitality of Montenegro's ambassador to Belgrade, and, if that doesn't help, Serbia would have to arrest 11 Montenegrin citizens, necessarily Montenegrin nationality, and judge them in Belgrade. Why judge them? To try a coup. There's no evidence, so they didn't have any evidence. We condemn them, then offer a trade. There's no other way. That's what civilized countries do. Secondly, we Montenegro can make a lot of diplomatic problems, and when Montenegrin citizens are arrested, make sure that those who have certain functions in the state administration are arrested, from the president of the municipality and beyond, and that they are afraid and do not come to Serbia. Secondly, all the reliefs that Serbian tourists had for flying in Montenegro to abolish, because Montenegro is not a friendly state as long as it has such a regime for Milo Djukanovic. Montenegro does not deserve any relief from the Serbian government, any assistance in the economic, diplomatic, professional, technical, scientific plan, because today in Montenegro, the worst treatment is with members of the Serb national minority. For a long time, Montenegro has overcome the actions of Albanian or Croatian authorities on the plan. Today, in Montenegro, no Serb can be employed in public service or in a public enterprise. Whoever says he's a Serb is practically out of the law. Serbian political parties are being prosecuted. The leaders of these parties are arrested and also tried for fictitious guilt, the Mil Djukanovic regime has long moved to an open dictatorship, and it would be a shame for democratic Serbia to even maintain diplomatic relations with a dictatorial regime in any country of the world, including Montenegro. We should keep the world public informed of what is happening in Montenegro and ask the competent international institutions to stand in the protection of the endangered Serb national minority. There are 30% of Serbs living in Montenegro, and those who are scared and forced to declare themselves as Montenegrins are probably more than 50%. Serbia's national minority is the most vulnerable in Montenegro. No other national minority is treated as Serbs. These are all reasons to sharpen our relationship with the Montenegrin regime to the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-14-0.u54071	Thank you, Mr. Seselj. The word has the People's Messenger Fatmir Hasani.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-14-0.u54072	Dear Parliament Speaker, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I ask the question to the Government of the Republic of Serbia -- does the government intend to decentralisation the state of Serbia? Tenditions for centralization, violates the state's reputation and damages property in the municipality's territories, as state property. I will focus my speech on the third point of this session on preventing corruption. There is one negative phenomenon in Serbia, which damages municipal territory and state property. It is the property of Serbia's water and property of Serbia's forest, which was exploited in front of the eyes of the municipal leadership, and with the permission of the manager who lives far from the municipality, in the centre of the region, which is collupted because he is far from the municipal eyes. The sands in the rivers, without mercy, were exploited, the riverbeds turned into canyons 20 metres deep, and therefore the bridges fell, as the bridge fell in Bujanovac, which binds the village of Ljiljanci and the rest of the villages. Secondly, the forest is set on fire, without mercy, and after that it is cut down for someone's interest in the forestkeeper and his boss, and for the polluting and damage to flora and fauna, no one is looking and no one is answering. That's why some boss in Leskovac and Nis thinks there's no interest, that's where the Albanians live, what they want to do. It's not right that the municipal government has no authority in its territory. This territory is failing because the municipal government doesn't control that property. Second, for example, members of some privatisation committee. They sell or privatize property, some companies, and the municipal government is in the car. For example, the Bujanovo tobacco industry sold and privatised for 750,000 euros, and that property costs over three million. Is there corruption here? I don't know, let's get another estimate. It cannot be a successful privatisation unless the municipal government participates in the privatisation. Third, the president of the municipality, there are no police officers to prevent any negative appearances in the municipality. What is the purpose of keeping all the strings in one hand and keeping everything in check from afar? It's like the president of the local community manages the host of someone else's house. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-14-0.u54073	Thank you, Comrade Hassani. The word has a National MP, Predrag Jelenkovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-14-0.u54074	Thank you, Chairman. I refer to the question of the Ministry of Construction, Traffic, Infrastructure, have the results of the measurements been obtained, and have there been any excesses in relation to the noise indicator's limit values for the Corridor 10 road road section, which passes through the town of Nis, practically at which stage is the setting of the firewall next to the section of the highway to Sofia, which will protect the construction of the Komren settlement from noise? Namely, in this part of the eastern leg of Corridor 10, the highway passes through the town hall of Red Cross and divides the village of Komren into two parts. Since this situation has been on the ground for more than 10 years, so on behalf of the citizens of Nis, as far as possible, I would like to ask for the urgent setting of the mentioned panels for security and other security reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-14-0.u54075	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's MP Novice Tonchev. Here you go, Comrade Tonchev.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-14-0.u54076	Dear colleagues. I want to take this opportunity, to ask the same question for the third time and try to convince the competent authorities to deliver to me, as a MP, the correct and complete answer, regarding the damage suffered by the state's budget due to the poor work of the current more and public prosecutor, in Vranje, Daniele Trajkovic. So far, I have asked the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office and the State's Council of Prosecutors twice, and the final answer I received from the Republic Prosecutor's Office reads this, and we would like to inform you that the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office has already delivered a reply to the request for notification of the number and that one. This is simply not true. My particular question has been, and today, how many people have been legally freed from guilt, how many proceedings have become obsolete, how much of the court's costs have fallen to the burden of the state budget, all the time since Daniela Trajkovic has served as the primary public prosecutor and since the senior public prosecutor in Vranja? I've received data relating to statistics, statistics I don't care about, and I've received information that it's being paid under some law, two, six, five law on criminal proceedings. Therefore, I did not get an answer as to the costs of hiring lawyers, artists and court breaks on behalf of 147 cases in which people were released, burdened by Daniela Trajkovic, as the primary public prosecutor? I'm asking this because this is the money of all taxpayers, this is the tax money that was deducted from the pay of MPs, from the bills paid by all citizens of Serbia and by the right of me, as a MP, it is to be announced to me the information on how unprofessional the work of a public prosecutor, such as in this case Daniela Trajkovic, costs the country's budget, if the exact information is that 147 people, who have been charged with being released? I cannot have the Republic Prosecutor's Office and the State's Chief Prosecutor ignoring their duties to the National Assembly and acting on purpose on a specific parliamentary matter. As serious as this is my question, it shows the case of Professor Ace Milanov, from Surdulica. That Milanov could not be against the candidate, then a DS boardman, a candidate for the Technical School Director, in Surdulica, Nebojsa Dojcinovic, otherwise vice president of the DS in Surdulica, was arrested by order of Daniele Trajkovic, for unfounded persecution and indictments, the acquittal of Aci Milanov was charged with damages based on court costs and lost earnings of about seven and a half million dinars. Due to the damage to the verdict, the Technical School's account was blocked, and the court's charges under the senior court's criminal case in Vranj, number 72/13, amounted to 639 000 dinars and were also paid to the burden of the budget. So I ask the authorities, are these data also correct and how much of the total budget was paid by all judgments for the persecution and terror that Daniela Trajkovic led against Professor Ace Milanov? She was stalking Daniela Trajkovic and other people, I'm going to mention a dozen of them now, but I have a list of at least 50. She has persecuted Daniela Trajkovic and other people, I will now mention a dozen of them, but I have a list of at least 50, that is Adjemović Dragisa, former court president now late Jankovic Stamenko, Milan Veličković, Miroslav Stojljković, Snezana Vrbanac, Stanislav Jovic, Natalija Radovanovic, Slobodan Stojanovic, Goran Vukasinovic, Dragan Micic, Stojanović Vladimir, Mile Sinadinović and others, and therefore we are looking for the state's larger prosecutors and the Public Prosecutor's office to give us every name and every amount of damage done by Daniela Trajkovic. My parliamentary question is very serious and therefore once again I demand that I be provided with a list of people with names and last names, case numbers, classification of the crime and the amount of expenditure paid to them from the budget before the prosecution and courts, and for the period when Daniela Trajkovic was head of the General Prosecutor's Office in Surdulica, the primary prosecutor's office in the Vladica Han, later the D.A.'s office in Vranja, and I will demand this all until I have a complete answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-14-0.u54077	I thank my colleague Tonchev. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-14-0.u54078	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, first question regarding the issue of Vojislav Seselj. What does the state of Serbia, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, think about taking action against Nebojka Medojevic, the Workers' Front of Zagreb, the so-called Tuzla party, who participated in demonstrations, where it was called for the violent overthrow of the authorities, which is a crime under Criminal Code 308 and 309? With this in mind, it is widely known that Bosko Obradovic has asked for the arrest of a legally elected president, that he has surrounded the presidency for this purpose, imported trucks and so on. My second question is about the decentralisation of Mr Fatmir - is it true that Serbia is a decentralised country and that Kosovo is our province? My next question is about the media. The question concerns the Ministry of Culture and Information, and I want to ask the following questions. Under number one - whether TV is N1, whether sports channels are, first of all, N1 and SK TV, etc. The channel, broadcast in 13 variants, are they registered in the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media? So are they listed as electronic media? The next question is about N1 TV and similar channels that I have already listed - whether they are paying the broadcasting fee paid by domestic television channels to the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media, etc. REM? Do they pay the fee, since domestic channels pay that fee up to 500,000 euros? If that is not true, if TV N1 is not registered as a domestic medium, if TV N1 does not pay the broadcasting fee, my next question is - is TV N1 and similar channels considered to be cross-border channels, which means they have the right to re-emission the program and with regard to who allowed it, if they are a cross-border channel, who has allowed that, apart from re-emissioning programmes from abroad, they broadcast a programme from studios in Belgrade and that they are airing domestic ads and thus jeopardising the business of regular television domestic channels that live from commercials? So is it true that they are not re-emitting the programme, but that they are broadcasting it from studies in Belgrade and that they are releasing domestic channels, which is a violation of the International Convention in the Council of Europe on Cross-border Channels? So, huge money is being poured out in such a way, and I'll tell you how, because my next question concerns the following – do sports channels and N1 televisions charge and broadcast domestic advertising, which violates the advertising law that this Assembly has brought? The last question related to N1 television and the like. cross-border channels, I argue pirates, is this the following – is it true that a cable operator that should rule out such channels, and REM orders, is it true that, unlike domestic media, which, when broadcast on SBB cable operator, SBB does not pay any compensation? Is it true, in contrast, that foreign cross-border channels, including N1 television and similar channels, SBB cable operator, Solak property, possibly Gilas and David Petreus, pay several euros in compensation to the euro? Well, it turns out that we're funding N1 television that works against the government of the Republic of Serbia, against legal authorities, which isn't registered here, which broadcasts an anti-law program and we're still funding SBB subscribers because they get money from SNV for broadcasting. So these are issues related to the Ministry of Culture and Information. I expect, given that I asked similar questions, to finally get an answer, and most importantly, when you sue N1 television, you cannot win in court, because it is not registered in Serbia as an electronic medium and can publish anything about you. My most important question is whether the N1 TV, which broadcasts the programme from Belgrade, broadcasts commercials registered in the Register of Electronic Media, in REM in the Republic of Serbia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-14-0.u54079	Thank you, colleague Rističević. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-14-0.u54080	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Milicevic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my question has been addressed to the representatives of the city government in Belgrade and primarily to Mr. Radojcic, the mayor, but also to the deputy mayor, Mr. Vesic and what is said – how much financial damage has been done to the citizens of Belgrade so far because of several days of the reconstruction of the Square of the Republic, but also because of the destruction of the city's property? We are all witnessing that something completely schizophrenic is happening in Belgrade during the last days and weeks, and so far, unrecorded, and these are these blockades of works in the Republic Square and the destruction of city property in the form of traffic signs and boards, protective fences and similar things, and this is the case of the Municipality of Stari Grad, Marko Bastac, who has since recently become head of Gilasov's charge. So he is seriously threatening to overshadow even Bosko Obradovic, who has long been undefeated in this battle for the greatest and most sacrificed servant of Gilas. So, this Bastic, a fighter for Gilas' interests, has been in the way for days with a group of his supporters, blocking and blocking works, harassing people, threatening workers, fighting with citizens who are passing by and fighting traffic signs. So there is complete schizophrenicity and madness as a result of total political impotence and any political programme, and possibly the result of frustration over the debacles of these Saturday protests. Now, all of this wouldn't be such a problem if it didn't cost the citizens of Belgrade, and that's where my question comes from, because I believe that Belgraders have the right to know how much damage it has done with this rampage of Bastice and the crew. Who's going to pay for this is perhaps the most important question, and is a criminal and criminal application for this vandalism launched? Here's what it looks like. Here's Bastac in the struggle with the parking boards. Here's a second picture of how proudly it is on the pager. You know that: what is wise is ashamed, and the other is proud. Here he is after the battle with the protective fences, and here he is in the picture fighting with citizens who care about this kind of behavior. They're completely justifiably insecure. There's still a lot of questions. Is it true that the people who are in his escort, therefore, all in turn, are employed in the Old Town Municipality or in institutions whose Old Town Municipality is the founder? If it turns out to be true, how is it possible that employees, instead of working hours at their jobs, spend time in these dimmed blocks? So, who made them do it, who made it possible for them, and who's going to answer for it? We also need to determine why Bastac is doing this. Did someone order him to block the city's functioning? Did Gilas perhaps, his boss, order him to block the works? I'll remind you that Gilas recently founded some kind of party, and he actually bought a party. So he bought an already existing party, because, you know, he doesn't like to be tortured. Why build a party infrastructure, why collect signatures, why visit Serbia? Buy a nice man, almost, and the money is there, his money is not a problem, and in that party Bastac is a member of the presidency, and that makes me think that Gilas is just the taskmaster of blocking the construction site and destroying the city's property. Everyone knows Gilas is someone who doesn't care about the interests of Belgrade and Belgrade. That, after all, proved while he was mayor of Belgrade, when he was an actor of countless affairs, and his authorities resulted in debts of over a billion euros. We're still paying off those debts today. My proposal is to issue an account for this damage to Dragan Gilas, who is the head of all these damages from the Alliance for Serbia. And here it is quite clear that their policy – the worse for the citizens, the better for them, but I am glad that they lost interest and the confidence of the citizens, because, as you can see, no one comes to these walks and their gatherings anymore. There are still a few tenacious tentarians left. I think there are more pigeons in that park than there are Protestants, and after this last Bosco blasphemy, when he tried to block the intersection of Prince Milos and King Milan, I think they'll give it up too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-14-0.u54081	Thank you. We're continuing to work because there are no more applications for questions. I would like to inform you that the MPs Petrovic, Zarko Obradovic and Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic are not present today. In accordance with Article 86(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that this session has been convened within a short period of time from the deadline of Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure require the National Assembly to consider proposals for acts in the proposed agenda as soon as possible. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. First, we will establish proposals for the review of acts by emergency procedure. The government proposed that, by emergency procedure, it be put on the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Capital Act. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – one, with abstention – there is not a total of 147 MPs participating in the vote. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, it be put on the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the confiscation of property arising from a criminal offence. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 126, no one with abstentions is available. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that, by emergency procedure, it be put on the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Code of Criminal Procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 129, no one with abstentions is available. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, by emergency procedure, the draft law on amendments to the Criminal Code be put on the agenda, I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 133, against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that, after an emergency procedure, it be put on the agenda – a bill on the prevention of corruption. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 133, against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law on the validation of the LD 1981 loan agreement (2018) between the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe and the Republic of Serbia for the financing of the public sector – the improvement of health care infrastructure in Serbia. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 133, v – no one, abstention – one. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, it be put on the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Agreement (The Project for the Promotion of Electronic Administration Services) between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 133, against – one, with abstention – there is no. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed to put, by emergency procedure, the draft law on the confirmation of the loan agreement (the project to improve trade and traffic in the Western Balkans with the application of a multi-phase programme approach) between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 133, against – one, with abstention – there is no. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law on the confirmation of the Loan Agreement (Programme Modernisation of the Tax Administration) between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 133, against – one, with abstention – there is no. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law on the validation of the financial contract – the Framework for strengthening the resilience of local infrastructure, between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 134, v – no one, abstentioned – one. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law on the validation of a financial agreement, a partnership for local development between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 134, against – no one, with abstention – two. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law on the confirmation of the contract and the loan for a credit to the privileged buyer for the E-763 highway construction project Preljina-Požega, between the Government of the Republic of Serbia, represented by the Ministry of Finance, as a borrower and a Chinese export-export bank as a lender. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 134, v – no one, abstentioned – one. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law on the confirmation of a loan agreement for the privileged buyer for the modernisation and reconstruction of the Hungarian-Serbian railway link in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, for the Novi Sad-Subotica state border of Kelebija, between the Republic of Serbia, represented by the Ministry of Finance as a borrower and the Chinese Export-Import Bank as a lender. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 137, no one with abstentions is available. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The High Council of the Judiciary has proposed that, by emergency procedure, it be put on the agenda – a proposal for a decision on the election of judges who are first elected on the judge's post I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 135, v – one, abstention – one. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The High Council of the Judiciary has proposed that, by emergency procedure, it be put on the agenda – a proposal for a decision on the election of the President of the Courts. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 134, v – one, with abstentions – there is no. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. We're moving on to the additions to the proposed agenda. Professor Ševarlic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a declaration of GMOs and products from GMOs. Here you go, Professor.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-14-0.u54082	Thank you, Madam President. Respected Serbian citizens, there is a worldwide protest Saturday (May 18th) against Baja. Many organisations will join Serbia as well, and we will organise protests for Serbia in several places without genetically modified organisms. In view of the fact that some 7,000 council members in 136 congregations, municipalities and cities have unanimously declared themselves against imports, cultivation, processing and transport of genetically modified organisms and products from genetically modified organisms, I think that the least we should do, if we are indeed national representatives, and the 223 MPs from this call live on the territory of these 136 municipalities and cities, to adopt a roof declaration, which obliges the state of Serbia to amend and supplement or adopt a new Law on genetically modified organisms, implement a referendum in which citizens will democratically declare whether they are for or against GMOs. Given that it is a fundamental human right to know what they are eating and that a growing number of countries, from previously only Benin, Zimbabwe and Serbia, we now have, here, I will now read you tonight's report on how many countries are now against, banned and traffic. So besides these three countries, traffic has been banned by Algeria, Venezuela, Kenya, Kyrgyzstan, who has also brought a strategy to translate all their agriculture into organic agriculture in the next 10 years, Madagascar, Peru, Russia, and not to mention countries that are against the cultivation of genetically modified organisms. In this regard, I cite that more of these countries are members of the World Trade Organisation. And I ask the question - how can they, as members of the World Trade Organisation, ban traffic and not allow us to prohibit traffic? The Parliamentary Assembly of Mediterranean countries was also held in this hall, where a representative of the directorates for the reception of new members was present at the World Trade Organisation. I asked a few questions and got an answer after months. That answer was forwarded to the cabinet of the president of the National Assembly, to be translated and delivered to all MPs. Despite the emergency of the chairman of the plenary assembly, the National Assembly did not translate the document and did not make it available to the MPs. Why should MPs not have the right to know the answer of the World Trade Organisation?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-14-0.u54083	Thank you, Professor Chevarlich. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 138 MPs, of the total of 146 present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to determine the facts regarding the killing and the political background of the murder of Zoran Djindjic, who submitted to the National Assembly on 15 December 2016. Does MP Nemanja Sarovic want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 140 MPs, of the total 148 present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the committee of inquiry to determine the facts and circumstances concerning the pressures on the state authorities and violations of the law during the elections for MPs in the National Assembly held in 2016, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. Does MP Nemanja Sarovic want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 137 MPs out of a total of 148 present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Bozidar Delic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on the rights of fighters and families of dead and missing fighters, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 November 2017. Does the MP Bozidar Delic want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-14-0.u54084	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is the 15th time I've talked about the law on rights of fighters and families of dead and missing fighters. We've been waiting 28 years for this law. All countries in the environment, including some quasi states, have already resolved the issues of their fighters. Only Serbia left, which forgets the fighters. I've been in a great country these past few days, our friendly country, where I met with fighters from World War II, but also fighters and wars that were fought after World War II. One of the passwords they have particularly impressed me when opening a new exhibition on the most important battles of World War II. It is in Russian, but when translated into Serbian, it is about – no one is forgotten and nothing is forgotten. That goes for Russia, but that doesn't apply to us here in Serbia. I hear there's been a public debate these days about the draft law on combat and disability protection. The proposal and the draft are the worst things that have been written lately and are likely to come before this congregation. For the first time, the truth is, fighters are given the right to be fighters in the draft, which means that someone can decide that some of them are not even fighters. And it is said that they have the right to have a martial book and that those who otherwise cannot be treated, which is good, will be able for the first time to be treated. But there's nothing to say about national recognition, and national recognition, as the fighters see it, is one piece of paper that says they fought for their country. And that is the mention of the medals for the defenders of the country from 1990 to 1999. I don't know how or who's thinking in this country and who's underestimating the fighters and who's going to come here to this assembly to present such a vicious bill. But the fighters will probably respond in their own way to that draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-14-0.u54085	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 26, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 121 MPs from the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. People's MP, Ms. Radet, on the basis of Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda to the meeting – Proposal for a Law amending the Family Law, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. Does the People's Messenger of the Prophet Radeta want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-14-0.u54086	Our people who have lived and worked abroad for decades have been coming back to Serbia for years to complete some medical interventions, which relate to dental adjustment, and then cosmetic, hairdressing services, etc. because it is much cheaper for their conditions in Serbia. It is also fine if we had a serious trade minister, who cares about the state whose minister, for example, could be a tourist offer in Banjski tourism. There's something that's not right and that really, it's about time, it should change. You have recently passed that law here on taking organs without the consent of the person from whom the authorities are being taken and through this Eurotransplant we have already become such a convenient place for the good money to be bought by the authorities. It's a bit of a rumor, but it's more and more really talking, and we've also spoken to the Constitutional Court. We expect that a member of this law that talks about it will be put out of force, but today is not the topic. The topic is family law and what is happening in Serbia, more and more people from abroad are coming, as terrible as it sounds, to buy children. How do they do that? It's done through the social work center, through corrupt employees at social work centres. Don't be surprised, you all know this is true. Recently, someone on a television show said – only sick children are given abroad. What does that mean? Does that mean we should throw away our sick kids? We need to treat them. That's just not true. It's also a business that uses people from here who allegedly legally take children across the social work center. Those in their countries get serious money, especially when it comes to a child who has a health problem, who doesn't care and doesn't care about that child. We insisted, when the law was passed, and now many years later we remind that this law must be changed, that Serbia does not have a single extra child to be given for adoption abroad. In addition, the government's representatives tell a different story when it comes to increasing the birth rate, when it comes to population policy. I end up in one sentence. The problem that needs to be solved is the problem of foster families that have made a business at the expense of poor families who are taking children instead of giving them money to feed children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-14-0.u54087	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for -11, no one, with abstentions, voted 136 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. People's MP, Ms. Radet, on the basis of Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Selection of National MPs, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. Does the People's Messenger of the Prophet Radeta want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-14-0.u54088	As early as 2000, the SRS, our parliamentary group, initiated among MPs the adoption of the Law on the Selection of People's MPs where a proportionate system was envisaged and the law, as our proposal is, was actually adopted in the National Assembly and all political parties... I guess it's one of the few laws in our recent parliamentary practice where all political parties voted in favour of the proposal and indeed it was a good law. Meanwhile, with several interventions, several amendments to the law have become bad and we now propose to return to what the whole of Serbia has been for, and we believe that it is now, because more and more among fellow MPs in both the media and the public and in conversation with neighbours, citizens, however you will, increasingly bother people that certain politicians, MPs run from one party to another. It's become a serious business. We have heard here today that Dragan Gilas is buying parties, which is true, but in particular, MPs are no longer known who came to which parliamentary group and from which lists in the National Assembly, in the meantime how many times he changed his uniform and where he is now. We must stand in the way to protect the reputation of the National Assembly and protect the will of the citizens. You know, if someone voted for the SRS, then every MP of the SRS must be aware of the fact that citizens voted for our programme, for what we promised in the election campaign, etc. No one has the right to carry that mandate to anyone else. We have advocated this forever and now we want, since October, which time we insist on putting this proposal on the agenda, to discuss, to put a very simple constitutional provision into the law, literally to rewrite it, and to leave the possibility for each MP to make his mandate available to the political party, the political party with whose lists he has been elected as a MP. We have no other way to preserve and protect the will of the citizens and the reputation of the National Assembly. The last time I talked about this, and that was about 20 days ago, I said there were 14 free shooters in the assembly, 14 MPs who don't belong to any of the MPs, and today there are 16 of them, and the question is, how long is that gonna go? I ask you best to accept that we are discussing this, so we can intervene with amendments from all sides and finally introduce order into the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-14-0.u54089	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against - none, with abstentions, did not vote 138 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Putting Off the Force of the Labour Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. Does MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 135 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. Does the People's Messenger Natasha Sp. Jovanovic wants a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-14-0.u54090	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, after the shameful inquisitor's judgment so-called. The anti-Serbian court in Montenegro, under the patronage of one of the biggest enemies of the Serbian people, Milo Djukanovic, and a criminal, the leader of one of the biggest mafias that today's world knows, is clear that you must understand that by adopting the amendments to this Citizenship Act we can and how to help our countrymen from Montenegro and Republika Srpska. Now I'm going to talk about the problems of the Serbs from Montenegro, because under this terror of the naked criminal and anti-Serbian regime, many cannot survive. In School 2017/2018 A year of 600 students of freshmans in Serbia enrolled in universities and came out, as our law allows, in order to achieve free education, that Serbian nationalities, are declared Serbs and many of them have applied for citizenship of the Republic of Serbia. Many of them don't want to come back and live and work in Montenegro anymore. And why would if this anti-Serbian government that comes to the hands of the Cypriot villains and all the enemies of the Serbs would not allow them to have dual citizenship? Remember the case of a Kotorin who was persecuted by Mil's criminal regime when it was discovered that he had dual citizenship? Serbs who have two passports have to hide it, otherwise, they're being taken away from their property, expelled from work, their children losing their right to health insurance, absolutely everything. And you see what kind of regime that is. For this reason, let us help those who wish to flee from this terror, those who do not want to return there, which is not the case with Serbs from Republika Srpska, of course, they want to achieve dual citizenship and experience Serbia as their queen and special parallel relations that we have adopted with Republika Srpska and that they promote that co-operation and should be allowed to receive citizenship as soon as possible, and more than 50,000 Serbs from Republika Srpska have otherwise applied for Serbian citizenship. But the Serbs from Montenegro have to get ahead of time, because many of them have been waiting, here, for two or three years, and many of them, and especially if it were found out, would have been big problems. That is why we believe that it is sufficient for the six-month deadline to carry out all necessary checks by the state authorities, the BIA, the Ministry of the Interior and that this administrative barrier which means life to the Serbs from Montenegro, and many of them also from Republika Srpska, because of work and everything else, are abolished, by accepting this amendment of the law and that within six months at the latest, if all the conditions are met, and I believe that many of them meet this condition because they give a statement that they accept Serbia as their queen and thus experience it, to allow them citizenship.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-14-0.u54091	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 12 MPs, against - no one, with abstentions - has voted 135 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Ruzica Nikolic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the transplantation of human organs, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. Does the MP Rose Nikolic want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-14-0.u54092	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the Law on the Transplanting of Human Authorities has introduced a premise agreement that every full-time citizen of Serbia becomes a potential donor, or organ donor, unless oral or written by the Biomedicine Authority is declared against it. As a reason for the introduction and adoption of such a law, you listed an increase in the number of transplant bodies. The organ donation should and must be an expression of our free will and our free choice, because it is the only way to achieve the desired effect, not if it is a legal obligation. We from the Serbian Radical Party have submitted amendments to this law proposing that the assumed consent be abolished, i.e. we propose an amendment to Article 23 of this Law, which we suggest that authorities can be taken for transplant purposes from a full-time citizen of the Republic of Serbia only if he has declared to be a donor during his life and not that we assume he does not want to be a donor simply because he did not apply to the Biomedicine Authority. We also submitted an initiative to assess the constitutionality of Article 23. The law on human organ transplants, because this particular article violates Article 23 and Article 25. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and we expect that the Constitutional Court will make the only right decision that Article 23. The law declared that it did not comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, with the article. 23rd and 25th. The Constitution will thus prevent further harmfulness of the application of this law and will continue to violate the Constitution. They would also point to the possibility of abuse and trafficking in organs, as the assumed consent leaves great space, although the law explicitly prohibits any organ trafficking and is considered a criminal offence. In order to increase the number of organ donors, the Ministry of Health, as well as a complete society, should work to promote donorship, as this will only increase the number of voluntary organ donors in Serbia and that is the only way to achieve the desired effect. So, only a positive campaign and a promotion of donation can increase the number of transplant bodies, because the new organ means a new life to someone, not a law that violates the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-14-0.u54093	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for -10 MPs, against - no one, abstentioned - has voted 138 MPs out of a total of 148 present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Filip Stojanovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item - Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Border Control, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. Does MP Filip Stojanovic want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-14-0.u54094	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted a bill on amendments to the Law on Border Control and I demand that it be included in today's session agenda. It is known to all that the most important characteristics of each country are its internationally recognised borders that separate it from other countries, or its neighbours. The state of Serbia has defined and internationally recognised borders towards its neighbours. The Serbian state's borders towards its southern neighbour, or Albania, have been defined by UN Security Council Resolution 1244. Unfortunately, Serbia is one of the few countries that has violently kidnapped part of the territory by 19 NATO pact states, as well as some other states that want to legalise the state of occupation and to declare the AP KIM's borders according to the rest of Serbia as international borders. We in the SRS are aware of the circumstances under which this occurred. We don't blame the current regime for the situation in which KIM was found, but we blame it for something else. Namely, the leading authorities of the Republic of Serbia must constantly insist on Resolution 1244, which guarantees the integrity of the state territory of the Republic of Serbia. But so far, we have not seen this regime insist on Resolution 1244 and we find that inadmissible. I remind you that according to this resolution, Serbia has the right to deploy thousands of members of its security forces at the border towards Albania. As a man who was born on KIM, who has spent his entire life down there until a violent exodus, I will always ask all regimes to insist on respecting Resolution 1244. This team, before the international circumstances slowly change for our benefit, and I am convinced that we will not wait long for the day when KIM will be re-integrated with the rest of the Republic of Serbia. If God does, my Gjilans will again hear Serbian trumpets and play the famous "Gjilanka". That is why this state territory should not be compromised, while all other topics can be discussed with Albanians who, you see, the Republic of Croatia is also showing hidden aspirations towards the part of our territory located on the left bank of the Danube. On this point, the regime must be uncompromising, not agreeing to any negotiations or arrangements on this subject. That is why I believe that the adoption of such a law as I have suggested will create clear assumptions and necessity as soon as possible to put the occupied part of the territory under our full control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-14-0.u54095	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 136 out of the 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Tomislav Ljubenović, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on financial support for families with children, which submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. Does MP Tomislav Ljubenovic want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-14-0.u54096	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Financial support to families with children in terms of the exercise of rights under this law would contribute to improving conditions for meeting the basic needs of children in families with children who are unable to achieve this on their own, and the number of such families is increasing. The adoption of the proposed amendments and additions would put an outside force of the discriminatory provision of the applicable law, which was defined as having a child's parental supplement only for the first, second, third and fourth children. Every child, regardless of the order of birth, must be treated equally with all the laws of the Republic of Serbia. The extension of the period of payment of the parental allowance: for the third child until the age of 18, instead of the 10 years of life, for the fourth child until the 18th year of life, instead of the 10th year of life so far, for the fifth and the next child for whom the parental allowance until the age of 18 of life could not be achieved would provide partial financial security to families with more children. The Republic of Serbia has been facing major demographic problems in recent decades, and one of the biggest demographic problems is the insufficient number of newborn children. The number of newborns is much lower than the number of deceased, leading to a negative natural growth. A large number of young people have been reported leaving a country where the share of the old population in the total population has been greatly increased. The economic situation in the Republic of Serbia is getting worse, so a large number of families face a lack of funding, which is directly held for the birth and raising of children. In view of this fact, it is necessary for the state to urgently take all measures to create conditions for improving the financial situation of families with children and to provide security in terms of giving state to future parents. The adoption of the proposed amendments and the addition of the Financial Support Act to families with children would significantly affect the resolution of one of the biggest demographic problems, which is an insufficient number of newborn children. As regards the financial resources needed to implement this law, the SRS's view is to make a permanent redistribution of funds in the Republic of Serbia's budget and by finally ending funding various NGOs and defining that money for the payment of child and parental allowances in the way the SRS proposes these amendments and additions to the Financial Support Act to families with children. The adoption of these changes and additions would create a basis for encouraging the birth of more children and for financial empowerment of families with children who would motivate parents to stay in Serbia, to stop the trend of mass departure from Serbia. We witness the daily departure of entire families from southern Serbia...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-14-0.u54097	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 137 out of the 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Dubravko Bojic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on psychoactive controlled substances, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. Does MP Dubravko Bojic want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-14-0.u54098	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Law on psychoactive controlled substances is very important, because this law addresses many issues that are of paramount importance to the health and safety of our citizens. These are, above all, the issue of production, traffic, use, storage, and the destruction of drugs that are not for further use. In front of the SRS, my intervention relates to this particular segment, the drugs seized by the decision of the competent authority, and in accordance with the law, which is not like raw materials for production or for other purposes, is being destroyed. I asked for the addition of an article that reads – the total amount of psychoactive controlled substances taken away is re-supplyed and then subjected to a quality chemical analysis. All of this is for reasons to prevent all sorts of possible abuses. Ladies and gentlemen, the question of drugs is one of the biggest problems of the modern world. The worst are synthetic drugs that are synthesized daily and produced in manual and trained laboratories, with very suspicious scientific and technological capacity. Just the other day, more precisely on Saturday, 11 May, the media reported and pointed to a major phenomenon of this drug. These drugs cause a man psychotic madness that makes him behave abnormally. Folkly speaking, they're drinking a man's brain. Then, they can lead to a dramatic disturbance in heart function, even cause a heart attack, then lead to renal failure, cause dangerous internal bleeding, difficulty breathing, and many other health complications. They're very interesting names of these drugs. One is called “a pile”, “a strawberry, ” and one, believe it or not,“ a drug of God. ” I don't just know who bless her by this name. There is “a pale measure. ” This drug in the world appeared for the first time in Germany in 2015 and were the consequences of deaths. It's scientifically proven that using this drug is related to an increase in suicides. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-14-0.u54099	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 136, out of the 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Zoran Despotovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. Does MP Zoran Despotovic want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-14-0.u54100	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, given the current economic and demographic situation in rural areas, we can conclude that our villages are already empty, that there are no more lives in them, that many households are abandoned, many villages are left without any inhabitants, while the few living are mostly an ageing population. Workingly capable younger generations are massing in urban environments and abroad to at least ensure decent and normal life as in Serbia, unfortunately, are unable to afford. That's what they're forced to do with a low standard, the inability to find a job, the poor quality of life. The trend has been dropping the quality of people's lives in rural areas for many years. The Serbian Radical Party has repeatedly submitted a proposal for a law on fosterment in agriculture, which should be approached with extreme seriousness by the rest of the ministry and accepted for a reason. The reason for the adoption of this law is that the state should, by increasing the cash amount of milk premiums, stimulate producers to improve the situation of farmers through concrete moves, and also create an opportunity for them to expand investment investments in the expansion of production. It is also necessary to reduce the lower limit of milk per quarter of the premium, especially where conditions for agricultural consumers are difficult and production is almost minimal. For this reason, the lower limit of cow’s milk premium per quarter would reduce the lower limit to 1,000 litres instead of the current 1,500 liters, so that farmers with reduced production conditions could also exercise the right to a premium. In the same Article, paragraph 15 is replaced by the following: The law on incentives in agriculture and rural development, we propose to increase the amount of milk premiums from seven dinars per litre so far to 10 dinars per litre. It shall then be referred to in Article 18(1). The law on incentives in agriculture and rural development changes the amount of basic incentives for plant production by increasing the existing solution, which provides that the amount of incentives per hectare is up to 6 thousand dinars, to at least 9,000 dinars. I've asked several times, and I've asked the Resort Ministry again, and I'm looking for an answer, so why don't we settle the issue of short- and long-term agricultural loans from 2004, 2005, where the domestic farmers are in an uninvited position, because the executioners are behind their necks, who are fined by their assets? During that period, loans were the only form of State aid, as there were no other subsidies. These loans are mostly granted in the range of 40 to 240 thousand dinars, depending on the size of the land. The annual interest rate was 5%, long-term loans were granted in banks under conditions prescribed by the competent ministry with a mandatory mortgage on the country or real estate. Since agricultural producers were unable to return the said 2004 and 2005 credit to date, the land is becoming passive and agricultural producers cannot achieve any subsidy or any incentive in agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-14-0.u54101	Thank you, colleague Despotovic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 136, of the total of 144 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Sreto Peric, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session to the point of the draft law on repealing the law on enforcement and security, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. Does MP Sreto Peric want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 137 out of the total of 144 MPs present. National MP Nikola Savic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on textbooks, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. Does MP Nikola Savic want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-14-0.u54102	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted a bill on amendments to the Law on textbooks with a proposal to be included in the agenda of this Assembly. The problem with textbooks has long existed, but it has been somewhat more pronounced lately, because we have a situation where textbooks write everyone, betray each and every one of them. We're not about to be ruled by a single publishing house in this area, but there's got to be some order here anyway. This is particularly important when it comes to textbooks that process national history and national culture. We have a social climate where some things, I have to admit, do a little fixing, but it still needs to be translated into textbooks. Today we speak freely, plainly and loudly of our heroes from Koshar, but these things are not yet in the textbooks. This should be found in history textbooks, because those heroes from Koshar achieved the same endeavor as Belgrade defenders some hundred years ago, and I think those heroes from Koshar absolutely deserve to be found in our textbooks. As we know, for example, that NATO's aggression was almost officially called the NATO campaign and now things are called by their own name. We have textbooks that in the most generous way insult the public morale of an ordinary man, and I really think it's unacceptable for such things to be found more in textbooks. If this thing doesn't pay more attention, in a perspective, in some foreseeable time that isn't in such a distant future, we'll have really big problems, because we know that the Cypriots from Kosovo already have Serbian cultural heritage, such as the Pećka Patriarchy, Gracanica, and I don't list all of our monasteries. Or, let's say, on the other hand, we have a situation where in Croatia everything that has been issued on Latina is considered a Croatian cultural heritage. So, let's say, if we are careless, that the collective works of Dobrica Cosic, the largest Serbian writer, issued on the Latin, are declared a Croatian cultural heritage. So this is really one serious thing, and the government has to do everything possible to pay attention to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-14-0.u54103	I thank my colleague. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, the abstentioned—has voted 138, of the total of 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Nikola Savic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Safety Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 28 March 2019. Does MP Nikola Savic want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-14-0.u54104	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the two previous sessions of this assembly we had laws, we discussed laws that deal with traffic problems. We had in the previous session exactly this law that I passed, it's the road safety law, but this thing that I suggested in my law, as a complement to this agenda, no one took into account. In the last session, we also had another law dealing with road traffic, transporting road passengers and some amendments submitted by the SRS that were really meaningful and the concrete government did not take into account. Here, specifically by the proposal of this law of mine, I asked that in controversial Article 47, paragraph 7. The bill on traffic in the roads changes that member, for the simple reason that he is indeterminate and contradictory. In fact, a literal and consistent interpretation of the position of this law cannot clearly determine who has the championship at the intersections. Namely, there is one specific point if the yellow light is lit to apply the rule of the right hand side and the rule of left turn, and that should only apply when traffic signs are mentioned before, which of course determine the traffic championship on the roads. We had a few, I know of a few, perhaps more, situations where precisely because of this inconsistencies and inconsistencies in the law, there were traffic accidents, and traffic experts and, of course, the people of the legal profession couldn't make it clear what it was and who was the winemaker, or the culprit of this car accident. I really appeal to this authority to consider this matter, especially when you see that unfortunately we have been having major problems with road traffic lately. Unfortunately, many of our people are killed. We've had our Easter holidays recently, you know, all five dead on the way to Kurzumlia, so this thing isn't about dancing. This is a matter where only one sentence or order of words needs to be changed, in order to solve the problem in this area at least. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-14-0.u54105	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 137 out of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Miroslav Stankovic Đuričić, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Biomedical Aided Fertilisation, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 14 March 2019. Does MP Miroslava Stankovic Đuricic want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-14-0.u54106	Thank you, Chairman. We are witnessing extremely poor demographic images of the Republic of Serbia. Each year, the Republic of Serbia loses 35,000 to 38,000 people, and if it continues like this, in forty years we will have three million inhabitants less than today. If we add everything to the fact that more than 300,000 couples have problems with infertility, we come to the fact that the Biomedical Aided Insemination Act is extremely important, and the problem of birth is one of the burning problems of the Republic of Serbia. Those who are going through this battle know how difficult it is to collect all the necessary medical documentation to get a commission to enter the process. As someone who went through this process alone, I can say that couples are often misunderstood and feel alone and helpless. It should achieve that diagnostics are simple, fast and accessible, which is absolutely not the case right now. It is necessary to abolish the age line and leave it to the commission to assess the individual reproductive potential. It should be possible for every woman who meets medical conditions to try to be realized as a mother. Also, the law should regulate the issue of male infertility, i.e. to ensure that men are treated for the cost of the Republic Health Insurance Fund. Then increase the number of funded attempts of biomedically assisted fertilisation by the Republic Health Insurance Fund, as well as enable the BMPO process with frozen material couples who have a problem with male infertility, as well as couples who have frozen healthy material before entering the malignancies treatment process. Also, funding should be made possible for freezing and freezing materials, providing biomedically assisted fertilisation and those couples that have already been realized as parents naturally. Why would these couples be sentenced to one child if, in the meantime, a medical problem occurred and the only way to regain them as parents is to become biomedically assisted insemination, and there are few such couples. This right is also guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia under Article 63. This problem is very important and very complex and sensitive and should be thoroughly approached and solved. I suggest you support this bill's amendment due to an alarming demographic picture of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-14-0.u54107	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 138, of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Žika Gojkovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a bill on opening a security service file in the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 22 April 2019. Does MP Žika Gojkovic want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-14-0.u54108	Dear Chairman, I would like to welcome you first and wish you good health and every good in the future. Just please don't refuse me this time to speak. I would like to ask your attention as I will read some of the provisions of the laws that are extremely important because the Kingdom of Serbia's Renewal Movement has submitted to supplement the agenda of the Bill on the Opening of Files. For a short time, I will only read those basic provisions. The aim of the law is to enable citizens, authorised representatives of groups of citizens or organisations and their legal followers to access data kept by security services, to ensure that citizens, groups of citizens and organisations of protection against abuse caused by the use of data collected by security services, to enable the rehabilitation of victims, to clarify the fates of missing and dead citizens and babies, and to ensure discontinuity in relation to the earlier period of government of authoritarian regimes and to shed light on communist crimes. The files are a database of data kept by security services on citizens, groups of citizens and organisations regardless of the form they were led. The rights of third parties and the disclosure of personal data on them must not be violated, the authorisation to make such data available to the public may only be granted to third parties and their legal successors. Everyone has the right to take their file or part of the file or to request the destruction of the files in their personal presence. The panel that decides on files consists of seven members elected in the Assembly, and are proposed by NGOs, the Serbian Archives, the Serbian Government and the Supreme Cassation Court. Ladies and gentlemen, almost all the political organizations when they were in opposition stood up for the law on the origin of property and the opening of files. Unfortunately, that didn't happen when they came to power. For the first time, it encourages the prime minister's announcement that the draft law on the origin of property will soon arrive in the assembly benches, but must follow the law on opening files, as two system laws. In addition to this, we'd find out what's most important, and that's how anybody got rich in the plight of the people, especially in the '90s, and how and from whom is the robbed state. This is very important, because while someone was losing their heads and spilling blood, individuals got rich with blood money. Also, all post-Communist countries have passed this law, it's time for us to do the same, for our own sake, but also for a country that will finally get rid of one huge one that's been carrying around the legs for decades. Then when we correct the injustices of the past, we can move towards a better future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-14-0.u54109	I thank my colleague Gojkovic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 139 of the total of 144 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Tatjan Macura, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the National Initiative, submitted to the National Assembly by the MPs Tatjana Macura, Vladimir Đurić, Aleksandar Stevanović, Ljupka Mihajlovska and Nenad Bozic, 17 August 2018. Does the MP Tatjana Macura want a word? No, I don't. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against those who are abstentions, has ever voted 144 messengers, as long as they are present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Tatjan Macura, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Financial Support for the Family with Children, submitted to the National Assembly by the MPs Tatjana Macura, Vladimir Đurić, Aleksandar Stevanović, Ljupka Mihajlovska and Nenad Bozic, 25 September 2018. Does the MP Tatjana Macura want a word? No, I don't. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 143 MPs out of the total 144. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Vladimir Djuric, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - the draft law on the regulation of the public debt of the Republic of Serbia on the name of a pension reduction under the Law on the provisional way of determining pension payments submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Vladimir Đurić, Tatjana Macura, Aleksandar Stevanović, Ljupka Mihajlovska and Nenad Bozic, 21 September 2018. Does MP Vladimir Djuric want a word? No, I don't. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 143 MPs out of the total 144. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Aleksandar Stevanović, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - Proposal for a Law amending the Criminal Law, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 October 2018. Does MP Aleksandar Stevanovic want a word? No, I don't. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against those who are abstentions, has ever voted 144 MPs, as long as they are present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Aleksandar Stevanović, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Order and Peace, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 October 2018. Does the MP want a word? No, I don't. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, has ever voted 144 MPs as long as they are present in the hall. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marijan Risticevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point - a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's polling committee to identify the facts and circumstances related to the business of cable operators, the broadcasting of cross-border channels, the broadcasting of domestic advertising in content of cross-border channels and other irregularities related to electronic media and cable operators, controlled by Dragan Gilas, Dragan Šolak and David Petreus. Does MP Marian Risticevic want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-14-0.u54110	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to better understand the subject, imagine that now the three of us, Mr Matic, Mr Atlagic and I are registering fictitious television in Serbia, fictitiously, so that it does not exist and that it only exists on paper. Now imagine the next situation in France, Germany, the Netherlands and other European countries we are broadcasting a programme. We call ourselves cross-border television, we find a friend who controls a cable operator, we get into the program of France, the Netherlands, Germany, we broadcast a program from France, Germany, and so on and we call it cross-border television. As long as their TVs pay broadcasting fees, we don't pay for it there. We are across border television, and if we are not broadcasting a programme from Serbia, but from France, Germany and the Netherlands, and we are broadcasting a programme that is destroying power, including order in France, Germany and the Netherlands, for years, days. Our television continues to be fictitiously registered in Serbia, being run across borders, broadcasting from France, Germany and the Netherlands from studios, thus broadcasting domestic advertising, thereby further jeopardising their domestic television channels. And all the time, let's say against McCron, he's broadcasting a program. I'm asking you, would that be possible? And, how long would it have been before the French government, the French authorities, the Dutch, took no steps so falsely across the border television, they broadcast not through cable operators, but rather by ordering cable operators to shut down such programs and they would certainly sanction us, they took the money we earned there, and they'd probably like a long-term prison. I'm sure we wouldn't be able to do that there, but it's fake across the border channels on SBB, it's the property of Schools, Gilas and David Petreus. David Petreus owns United Group, United Group owns United Media, and United Media owns N1 television, owns multiple cable fakes across border channels that don't pay broadcasting fees here, and also broadcasts programs and ads and further endangers domestic media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-14-0.u54111	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 137 MPs of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marijan Risticevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point - a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the affairs related to former Belgrade Mayor Dragan Gilas and not the intended spending of funds submitted to the National Assembly on 27 March 2018. Does MP Marian Risticevic want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-14-0.u54112	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Dragan Gilas, the great exporter of our money, the money of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, is doing it, and I have already said that Colak, the congratulatory tax payer of Switzerland. Be careful, residents of Switzerland, the tax resident of Switzerland, allegedly pays taxes in Switzerland. Why is he paying taxes there? At a villa on Lake Geneva. But as Dragan Gilas, Solak earned the money, I tried to describe it earlier in my address. But that's why Solak, Gilas don't pay taxes in the country to make business happen. They're mythicating cross-border channels. These are pirate and fake cross-border channels that through cable operator SBB property Schools, probably and Gilasa pay cross-border broadcasting televisions even though they don't do so to domestic channels. Thus, they pump up money from subscribers from the Republic of Serbia and monthly subscription to SBB to 54% of the market is about 15m euros, times 12 months, all that money from 150m to 180m euros pumps across fake cross-border channels, paying them broadcasts that do not pay to regular domestic media whose programme is used by 80% of cases. That money goes to Switzerland, that money is shared by Solak, Gilas and David Petreuf. That's right. And that's why N1 television SK-1, SK-2, SK-3, 13 sports clubs, 20 and some fake cross-border channels are operating and REM is doing nothing to rule out such channels by law and international conventions. In this way, by pumping money, Solak, Gilas and David Petreuf make huge sums of money, and currently that capital is measured by about two billion. And that's why Solak, he doesn't pay taxes here, so he claims he's a tax resident in Switzerland, and if his business that he's pumping money out of here for Switzerland is to be taxed here, to be ordered, to register cross-border channels in Serbia, they pay broadcasting fees and they can't pump money in such a way. Dragan Gilas owns and affects all the media in Serbia, because they control cable channels, control money, and in such a way as when he was with Miskovic in "Pres", in such a way it affects the political opportunities, and that is why today the N1 TV is against you legally on the First Channel instead of the RTS, the state programme. That's why they're sorting the channels. Gilas's channel is on the unit, before that, N1 is television, so not registered media that don't pay taxes, black broadcast commercials, endangers domestic media. They use the market in Serbia, subscribers, pump money.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-14-0.u54113	Time, thank you. People's MP, I'm putting your motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there are no abstentions for – 17, against – there are no abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marijan Risticevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee, to determine the facts and circumstances related to the declaration of the fake state of Kosovo, the impact that the International Court of Justice had on this, and the responsibility of former Foreign Minister Vuk Jeremic. Here, you have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-14-0.u54114	Ladies and gentlemen of the People, surely you have wondered for a long time, why is the Wolf of Jeremiah, whom I call a descendant of the Wolf, and what was that? What is white in the mountain of the green? Is that the umbrella Murat Age Pozdertz? So, why did Vuk Jeremic get the money from the Qatar Embassy? When you look at who Serbia's ambassador to Qatar is, you'll understand. Ambassador, Mr. Martinovic, Serbia in Qatar is Jasminko Pozderac. So, Jasminko Pozderac, and the Wolf is a descendant of Murat Age Pozderac famous and then you know why Muslim brothers financed and allocated money to Vuk Jeremic. I suppose the channels lead across Jasmine to their cousin, and all of this is to the harm of the Republic of Serbia, and in favour of the false state of KIM. So Thaci himself said Kosovo's independence rests at the International Court of Justice's opinion requested by Vuk Jeremic. Vuk Jeremic agreed with the US ambassador and the US Embassy at the end of 2007, where Americans agreed to influence Kosovo Albanians, not to declare fake KIM states before a second round of presidential elections is held and before Boris Tadic is elected president, as has happened. Boris Tadic was elected president, sworn in on February 14th, and Kosovo's independence, the false state, the Albanians declared February 17th. To repay, Vuk Jeremic asked the International Court of Justice for an opinion, from a group of countries that have recognised a false state of Kosovo and thus legitimateized a false state and kept some secret agreement and secret promises. That's why I'm asking the board of inquiry to deal with questions and examine this act, and I'm going to call it - high treason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-14-0.u54115	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—17, against—there is no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Marijan Risticevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee, in order to determine the facts and circumstances related to the unintended spending of funds allocated for the election campaign. Here, you have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-14-0.u54116	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are talking about Bosko Obradovic, whom we call because of the ideology of Bosko Ljotic and about pumping money out of the republican budget for the campaign. The right hand of Dragan Gilas, who was the only party he founded, was called the Dveri Party, so this party of freedom and justice, which copies that Muslim brothers, who admitted to KIM in Egypt, I guess listening to Vuk Jeremic, is with him also Bosko Ljotic, and I also call him Bosko left-handed. This is the scheme in which Bosko Obradovic was in the political party Dvera, the money won for the election campaign, which was to be returned to the republican budget, pumped and returned to his pockets, fictitious business with entrepreneurial actions, whose owners were his candidates from his election list, so in Borca there are, say, Verica Cvianovic, Željka Cvianovic, and that I don't list all the lines, so Crepaja, Ub, and so on, all the persons who opened up the entrepreneurial shops were on the list, and these are members of the political party Dveri. Bosko Obradovic pumped money for them, millions of amounts, and when he pumped 30 million dinars, the next day all the companies' money was raised in cash and returned to Bosca Obradovic. In this regard, several criminal charges have been filed, and I want this job to be examined, to set up a survey committee, to address these issues, and that this Bosko Ljotic, who plays some honesty, to examine how he pumped 30 million dinars, with whom there is a reasonable doubt over "Pinka" 100 meters, bought an apartment on Dedinj. With this in mind, I would like to encourage the prosecution and Mrs. Zagorko Dolovac that, regardless of what she can interpret as political pressure, to finally put this on the agenda, to process, because Bosko Obradovic after this goes all the harder crimes and asks to violently bring down legally elected authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-14-0.u54117	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Marijan Risticevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to visits to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia of certain extremist organisations and individuals. Here, you have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-14-0.u54118	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you are aware that Bosko Obradovic here has hosted the grandson of the famous Pernar "Glory", who is in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia's Assembly, asking how much Serbian blood costs. So it's for the sequel, the granddaughter of this Pernar. You also know that Bosko Obradovic hangs out with the Bulgarian organisation "Ataka", that he hangs out with a neo-Nazi organisation in Germany, and that with his extremism, with his violent attempts to bring down the SUP authorities, that RTS with motor saws, etc., has, in my opinion, exceeded every measure. At this point, it blocks intersections, these days it blocks intersections in Belgrade, announces a blockade of various institutions and roads. So, I think we should form a survey committee and examine this association with extreme organisations that are looking for parts of the Republic of Serbia. Also, I think that we should examine his participation from the Zagreb Workers' Front, which actively participates in the demonstrations in Belgrade with our party, one Murat Cengic from Tuzla, and that others, Nebojsa Medovic, who together are trying to bring down legally elected authorities in the Republic of Serbia and therefore ask for the establishment of this polling committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-14-0.u54119	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for nine, against none, with abstention, none. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal. Please, before we move to the vote, we'll determine the quorum. Please insert your cards back into the system's parliamentary units. I find that the application of the electronic system has established that 131 MPs are present in the O.R. National MPs Maja Gojkovic is, on the basis of Article 92(2). Article 2(7)(b) 170 and Art. 192. The Rules of Procedure, proposed a joint principled single search on: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Code, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Codes on Criminal Procedure, Proposal for a Law on the Prevention of Corruption, Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Bank of the Bank, Proposal for a Law on the Law on the Law on the Republic of the Republic of Serbia, Proposal for a Decision on the choice of the President of the Court of Justice and on a Decision on the Treaty on the Creature of the Bank and on the Treaty on the Feature of the Bank, firstly elected to the Court of Justice of Justice, and the General Council of the Court of Justice of 25 April this year, and to the Common Single Review on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law of the Law of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic to the Republic of Serbia, the Republic to the Republic of Serbia, the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of Serbia, the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of Serbia, the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic, the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 132, v – no one, abstentioned – one. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Since we have agreed on proposals for the agenda for the session of acts under emergency procedure, proposals for supplementing the proposed agenda and on a proposal for a merger of the debate, pursuant to Article 93(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote a draft agenda in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 132, v – no one, abstentioned – one. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the 5th session of the first regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019, in general. D n n e d d: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Code, which the Government has submitted, 2. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Code of Criminal Procedure, submitted by the Government, 3. Proposal for a law on the prevention of corruption, submitted by the Government, 4. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the confiscation of property arising from a criminal offence, which was filed by the Government, 5. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, which was filed by the Government, 6. Proposal for a law confirming the loan agreement for a credit to the privileged buyer for the Modernisation and Reconstruction Project of the Hungarian-Serbian railway link in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, for the New Sad-Subotica-State Border (Celebia), between the Government of the Republic of Serbia represented by the Ministry of Finance, as a borrower and Chinese Export-Import Bank, as a lender, which was submitted by the Government, 7. Proposal for a law confirming the loan agreement for the privileged buyer for the E-763 Motorway Construction Project, Preljina-Pozega, part of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, represented by the Ministry of Finance, as a borrower and a Chinese Export-Import Bank, as a lender, who was submitted by the Government, 8. Proposal for a law confirming the Financial Treaty of the Partnership for Local Development between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank, which submitted 9. Proposal for a law confirming the Financial Treaty - Framework for strengthening the resilience of local infrastructure, between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank, which was submitted by the Government, 10. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Agreement (Programme Modernisation of the Tax Administration) between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which was submitted by the Government, 11. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Agreement (A project to improve trade and traffic in the Western Balkans by applying a multi-phase programme approach) between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which was submitted by the Government, 12. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Agreement (A project to improve electronic administration services) between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which was submitted by the Government, 13. Proposal for a law confirming the LD 1981 loan framework agreement (2018) between the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe and the Republic of Serbia to finance the public sector - the improvement of health care infrastructure in Serbia, which was submitted by the Government, 14. A Proposal for a Decision on the Election of the President of the Courts, which was submitted by the High Council of the Judiciary, 15 / 15 The motion for a decision on the election of judges who were first elected to the judicial office, which was submitted by the High Council of the judiciary. We are going to work on the established agenda of the session. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I inform you that they are invited to attend: Nela Kuburović, Minister of Justice, Radomir Ilic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, Aleksandar Pantic, election member of the High Council of the Judges, Jovan Ćosić, Deputy Minister of Justice, Dejan Carović, Executive Director of the Administration for Criminal Sanctions, Aleksandra Stepanovic, Head of the Department of Criminal Sanctions, Natasa Djelic, Head of the Department for Status Affairs of Judges of the High Council, Zlatko Petrovic, Senior Advisor at the Ministry of Justice and Bozidar Blađević and Vladimir Vinš, independent advisers at the Ministry of Justice. I ask the parliamentary groups, unless they have done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. Pursuant to Article 157(2) and Article 192. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I open a joint principle and uniform review on the draft law amending and supplementing the Criminal Code, the draft law amending and supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure, the draft law on the prevention of corruption, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the confiscation of property arising from the criminal offence, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the execution of criminal sanctions, the Proposal for a decision on the election of the President of the Courts and the Proposal for a decision on the election of judges who are first elected to the judicial office. Does the proposing official, Minister Nele Koburovic, the minister of justice want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Nela Koburovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-14-0.u54120	I would like to present to you, at the beginning of the joint principle debate, the most important solution that contains the draft law amending and supplementing the Code of Criminal Code, the draft law amending and supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the confiscation of property arising from the criminal offence, the draft law on the prevention of corruption and the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions. When it comes to the draft law amending and supplementing the Criminal Code, the greatest three main reasons for its adoption. The first reason is the adoption of the Tijana Juric Foundation initiative, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 9 November 2017, supported by 158,460 citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The above-mentioned initiative to amend and supplement the Criminal Code proposes to prescribe a life sentence for the most serious crimes against life and crime, crimes against half-freedom in cases where the death of a child, a minor, a burdensome woman and an powerless person have taken place as a result of the execution of the act. In addition, this initiative predicts that persons sentenced to life imprisonment for certain crimes do not have the right to parole. In this regard, I would point out that the Permanent Working Group for Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Code of the Ministry of Justice during 2015, i.e. before the initiative in question, discussed the issue of introducing a life sentence into the Criminal Code, which would replace the existing maximum threatened prison sentence of 30 to 40 years. This issue was also found in a public debate, where it was asked by the professional public to express its opinion on it. I must point out that the issue of a life imprisonment has now upset the professional public, has led to thought, conversation, controversy and, by nature, to many other issues. A life sentence should completely replace the most severe prison sentence of 30 to 40 years, since there is no reason for both sentences to exist at the same time. This means that the "Tijana Juric" Foundation's proposal, which envisions a life sentence for the most serious forms of crime, refers to certain crimes, such as murder, rape, promise of an powerless person and promise of a child. In the event that they were committed to a child, a minor, a burdensome woman and an powerless person, it was extended to all other crimes for which, according to a valid legal solution, a prison of 30 to 40 years was ordered. These acts are the murder of top state bodies, heavy acts against the constitutional order and security of Serbia, association to commit crimes, genocide, crime against humanity, war crimes against the civilian population, war crimes against wounded people and patients, terrorism, etc. Of course, the bill introduces and defines a life sentence. I would also point out that criminal political justification is a life imprisonment in that it should be an extraordinary sentence that replaces the death penalty. It has been shown that some of the most serious crimes against certain perpetrators are not adequately proven to be a time-limit for deprivement of freedom. When preparing the text of the bill, we had in mind and comparable legal solutions from other countries. With the exception of several states, all other European countries are known for life imprisonment in the territory of the former Yugoslavia, except for Slovenia, as well as Spain, Portugal, Norway. There are also Austria, Finland, France, Germany, Italy, Macedonia, Slovenia, Switzerland. The Republic of Serbia, as well as most countries formed in the territory of the former Yugoslavia, now knows a solution that is not common and, other than those mentioned, does not know any other European country. Instead of life imprisonment, a long-term prison sentence is foreseen in a certain range and somewhere in fixed duration. In addition to obtaining two time sentences, deprivement of freedom with different minimums and maximums, which is difficult to claim, unlike life imprisonment, that it is a fundamentally different penalty for the deprivement of freedom, such punishment causes dilemmas and in terms of what range it is prescribed and whether at all within the range or fixed duration and what is its relationship with regular imprisonment. The usual objection to life imprisonment is her inhumanity. In this respect, however, no existing prison sentence of 30 to 40 years could be considered also inhumane. In fact, if a convicted person who has endured a 40 - year sentence is released for the rest of his life, the question arises as to what he gets, since, as a rule, he is without means to live, at a deep age, with broken ties with family and friends. Given the gravity of this penalty, its exceptional character, certain restrictions are also provided for in its regulation and pronunciation. The restrictions on her prescription remained the same as those on prison sentences from 30 to 40 years. It can only be prescribed for the most severe crimes and the most severe forms of criminal acts and always alternative to prison punishment. A ban on her saying to persons who did not turn 21 at the time of the crime was also detained. In addition, a ban on sentenceing life imprisonment in cases where there is some legal basis for easing penalties or for releasing penalties, over-limiting of necessary defence, attempt to significantly reduce accountability, voluntary withdrawal. By prescribing life imprisonment instead of a prison sentence of 30 to 40 years, there would be a clearer distinction between life imprisonment and the one with time. The sentence of life has a symbolic meaning as well. It can more adequately express the severity of some crimes, the degree of guilt of the perpetrator, although practical execution can be reduced to the same length as the prison sentence of 30 to 40 years. It is also complemented by the provision of a Code of Criminal Code relating to obsolescence in that it is an extended circle of criminal acts that do not go out of date. It has been proposed that, in addition to the crimes of war crimes and other crimes, in accordance with ratified international agreements, the limitations of criminal prosecution and the execution of punishment cannot also take place for crimes for which life imprisonment is intended. Considering that a life sentence was imposed instead of a prison sentence of 30 to 40 years, it was necessary to amend the provisions governing parole. It is predicted that a person sentenced to life imprisonment can be paroled after 27 years in prison. Such a solution is in line with the intensity of putting in place a life sentence that, by its nature, weighs more than 30 to 40 years in prison. Since, under the applicable law, a person sentenced to 40 years in prison may be suspended after 26 years and eight months, it is proposed that the sentenced to life imprisonment may be on probation after 27 years in prison. In addition, due to the imposition of a life sentence, a deadline has been imposed for recalling parole for persons sentenced to this sentence. In line with the "Tijana Juric" Foundation's initiative, the court is expected not to be able to fire the convicted for crimes determined by the initiative. Such a solution is in line with the Law on special measures to prevent the conduct of criminal acts against gender freedom against minors, so-called minors. "Maria's Law", which stipulates as one of the measures that a person sentenced to prison for crimes prescribed by that law cannot be suspended on condition. In addition to the introduction of a life sentence, another significant reason for the adoption of the bill is to lay down rules for the stricter punishment of perpetrators of criminal acts when it comes to returnees, or multiple returnees. In line with the Ministry of the Interior's initiative, the amendments have also been made to the provisions concerning the administration of penalties in the event of return. The fact that someone has previously been convicted of a crime committed with imagination makes the court mandatory as a difficult circumstance. The ordinary return provides that the court cannot impose a sentence below the limit prescribed by law or a milder type of punishment if the perpetrator of a criminal offence committed with premeditated premeditation is not convicted of a premeditated criminal offence and if five years have not passed since the previous sentence or a sustained sentence. When it comes to multiple returns, earlier two convictions, the court is obliged to give him a sentence above half the prescribed sentence provided that the perpetrator has been convicted twice before of a criminal offence committed with the imagination of a prison sentence of at least a year and that from the day of the release of the offender to the execution of a new criminal offence, it has not been five years. A circle of criminal offences for which parole can be imposed is also consensually provided that the conviction cannot be charged with criminal offences for which a sentence of eight years of imprisonment or a more severe sentence is threatened instead of what is now scheduled for the ten-year sentence. This intervention shall bring the Criminal Code into line with the Code of Criminal Procedure by predicting that a conditional conviction can only be cut for a criminal offence for which the Code of Criminal Procedure provides for a shortened procedure. The bill also carried out the tightening of penalties for the crime of abuse and torture, domestic violence, tax evasion, killing and abuse of animals, preventing an official from committing an official act, assaulting an official in the exercise of official duty, participation in a group that prevents an official from committing an official act and violent conduct at a sports event or a public meeting. There is also a third important reason to pass this law. The amendments and additions contained in the provisions of individual members of the bill concern the need to comply with FATF Recommendation 5, an international body that sets global standards in the field of combating money laundering and terrorist financing. One part of these changes is in the function of removing the discrepancy identified in the Council of Europe Report on the evaluation of the Republic of Serbia by the Council of Europe to prevent money laundering. Given the current reporting process to the Council of Europe, it is necessary for the Republic of Serbia to adopt the proposed amendments in order to make progress on technical compliance with FATF standards for the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing. Namely, the proposed amendments and additions shall be fully aligned with Article 2. The UN International Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism Financing by harmonising the description of individual crimes with the description of the crimes contained in several international agreements contained in the annex and the Convention, which is one of the key criteria for the assessment of compliance with Recommendation No 5. In order to comply with the recommendation, a foreign travel operation related to terrorism has also been incriminating and the concept of "funds" is precisely defined in the criminal act of financing terrorism. Therefore, the proposed changes and additions would achieve full compliance with the largest international standards concerning the prevention of terrorist financing, which is undoubtedly important for improving the position of the Republic of Serbia in international bodies in the area. Of the other changes, it would point out that the MIP proposal is subject to serious murder by providing for punishment for actions preparing for the immediate execution of this crime. In line with the Ministry of Health's initiative and international recommendations, criminal acts have been complemented by unauthorized production and placing on the market of intoxicating drugs and enabling the use of intoxicating drugs. In this regard, it is intended as a qualified form of those crimes when they are committed according to a minor, mentally ill person, a person who is temporarily mentally impaired, a person who is more likely to be mentally retarded, or a person who is treated for drug addiction, or when the work is done in an establishment of education and education or in its immediate vicinity, an institution for the execution of criminal sanctions, a public place or a public event, or if the work has been carried out by an official person – a doctor, a social worker, a minister, a teacher or an educator; using his or her position or if a minor has been used for the execution of the act. In this regard, the criminal offence has also been altered by the unauthorized holding of intoxicating drugs due to the lack of uniformity of the case law. The changes consist of the fact that, as a special form, it is prescribed and the unauthorized holding of intoxicating drugs in a large amount. In addition, it is predicted that the perpetrator of this crime cannot determine the execution of a prison sentence in the premises he resides in, and to prevent the unsub from continuing to commit the offence during the execution of the sentence. In addition, according to the Serbian Bar of Lawyers proposal, a new crime is being introduced -- an attack on lawyers. The transitional and final provisions of the draft law determine the application of return provisions, as well as the entry into force of the law, and propose that the law enter into force on 1 December 2019, and the delayed application is necessary in order to allow sufficient time for the professional public, competent public authorities, courts, public prosecutors and police, as well as citizens, to be informed of the proposed amendments and additions to the Criminal Code, given their great importance and reach. When it comes to the draft law amending and supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure, it was necessary to bring this Code in line with amendments to the 2016 Criminal Code, which amended the system of Chapter 22 and refers to criminal acts against business. On the other hand, when it comes to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the confiscation of property arising from a criminal offence, it was also necessary to align it with the amendments to the 2016 Criminal Code, which amended the system. For this reason, a minimum amendment of Article 2 shall take place. The law on the confiscation of property arising from a criminal offence, which determines the circle of criminal offences for which the law is applied for the purposes of harmonising the numbering and the title of criminal offences under the Criminal Code. The fourth, very important law today in front of the MPs is the bill on preventing corruption. This proposal has been developed to bring the legal framework in line to prevent corruption with the country's recommendations to combat corruption in the Council of Europe, so-called. GRECO, from the fourth round of evaluation that began in January 2012. As part of this evaluation round, the emphasis is placed on preventing corruption through the consideration of issues related to ethical principles and rules of behaviour of public officials, as well as conflict of interest in the exercise of public functions, bans or restrictions on certain activities of public officials, reporting on property, income, obligations and interests. In the process of drafting the Anti-Corruption Act, the ministry submitted a legal text to the opinion of the GREKO expert, which analysed the compliance of the text law with the GREC recommendations. In October 2018, an opinion was submitted to the Ministry of Justice on the harmonisation of legal texts with recommendations. This expert opinion was taken into consideration when the draft law was drawn up and its recommendations were incorporated into the text of the proposal. The adoption of this law is of importance for the relation of the strategic objectives of the Republic of Serbia from the National Anti-Corruption Strategy in the Republic of Serbia for the period from 2013 to 2018, its Action Plan, as well as the Action Plan for Chapter 23, which also foresees obligations to amend the Anti-Corruption Agency Act. In addition, during the application of the applicable law which has been in place for ten years, the need for a number of provisions to be clarified has been seen, specified and that the corrections of many shortcomings in the applicable law that have been shown in practice, and that newspapers in this area which are not subject to the applicable law, which are related to conflict of interest, cumulation of public functions, registration of property and income of officials and which are related to the authority of the Agency. The name of the law has been changed for reasons why the name of the existing law, the Anti-Corruption Agency Act, does not fully reflect the matter governed by the law. In addition to the legal situation, competence, organisation and work of the Agency, the draft anti-corruption law contains provisions governing the rule of preventing conflicts of interest in the performance of public functions, the issue relating to the cumulation of public functions, the reporting of property and the income of public officials and other issues of importance for the prevention of corruption. For these reasons, the name of the bill and the draft law on the prevention of corruption, which also changed the name of the Agency to the Anti-Corruption Agency. In order to comply with recommendations from the opinion of GRECO experts, the selection process of directors has been amended to objectify his election. The draft law stipulates that the Ministry of Justice shall hold a public competition for the selection of directors and that the Management Board of the Judicial Academy educates the Commission for the implementation of a public competition for the selection of a director who is composed of three members who must meet the conditions required by this law and for the Director. The Commission shall then carry out a test to assess the expertise, knowledge and skills of the candidates set out in the test programme. The test consists of three parts. The first part of the test shall verify the professionality of candidates for the Director of the Agency. The second part assesses their professional integrity for the performance of the Agency's directorship, and the third part of the test assesses the Agency's work programme representing the members of the Commission. A candidate for the Director of the Agency may receive a maximum of 100 points on the test. For the first part of the test, the candidate can get a maximum of 70, and for the third part of the test, a maximum of 30 points. Objections to the Commission's decisions to conduct the contest shall be decided by the Board of Appeal, composed of three members, who shall also be educated by the Management Board of the Judicial Academy. Following the test carried out and the end of the appeal procedure, the Agency's public selection contest shall be submitted by the Commission to the Minister responsible for the dealings of the candidate list according to the success achieved on the test. The bill also provides for the duty of the Minister of Justice to propose to the National Assembly candidates who have reached at least 80 points on the test, and the National Assembly shall choose among the proposed candidates of the Agency's directors most of the votes of all MPs. Such an electoral procedure guarantees the independence of the future director in relation to the authorities of the executive authority. In line with the recommendations already mentioned in the opinion of GRECO, instead of the existing Committee of the Agency, the bill provides that complaints about decisions taken by the Director of the Agency on the violation of this law are to be decided by the Council of the Agency. This body is composed of five members who must meet the same conditions for choice, as well as the director. This makes it possible to professionalise decision-making in a second-degree procedure before the Agency, unlike a valid legal solution. The procedure for selecting a senior member of the Agency is almost identical with the procedure for selecting the Director of the Agency. The only difference is that the test consists of two parts, because for the selection of members of the Greater Agency the work programme is not evaluated. The main objectives pursued by the adoption of the Anti-Corruption Act are protection of public interest, reduction of the risk of corruption, strengthening integrity and accountability from public authorities and public officials. In order to achieve the objectives declared, the public authorities shall be obliged to deliver to the Agency within 15 days of the date of receipt of the written and reasoned request of all documents and information available to them, i.e. the public authorities are obliged to provide the Agency with direct insight into those documents in order to carry out the tasks of the Agency. Another important aspect that will improve the Agency's work - direct access to electronic data bases, at the request of the Agency, will contribute to better quality and efficient work, as well as exchange of data by electronic means. In addition, the bill clearly defines the rules relating to the accumulation of public functions and are prescribed in the special chapter, given the fundamental difference between this institute and the institute of conflict of interest. The draft law sets out the provisions relating to the procedure in which the infringement of this law is to be decided. It is prescribed that the procedure is conducted in the event of a suspicion of conflict of interest, the existence of incompatibility of public function with other functions and tasks of public officials, breach of rules relating to the accumulation of public functions and reception of gifts, i.e. the reporting of property and income of public officials. The paper also presents the possibility that a decision-making procedure on the existence of a violation of this law can be initiated on the basis of an anonymous application, which has not been the case so far. The mandatory elements of the request to initiate the procedure, i.e. the application initiated by the initiation of the procedure, have been specified. When it comes to sanctions imposed on public officials for breach of the law, the proposal stipulates that a warning measure should be imposed instead of a warning measure prescribed by the applicable law, as well as a measure of public publication of a recommendation for resolution from a public office. The bill sets out what is considered to be a serious or easier violation of the law, as well as the measures that are expressed depending on the violation of the law, thus eliminating ambiguities in the applicable legal solutions. The draft law provides for more detailed arrangements for the Agency to act on the presentations of natural and legal persons. The paper shall be empowered to submit a reasoned proposal for supervision to the authority which oversees the work of the public authority against which the presentation has been submitted by the Agency in the course of its performance. The Authority is obliged to explain in writing the reasons for the refusal of the proposal and to submit them to the Agency no later than 30 days after the date of the refusal of the proposal. It also has the authority to issue a recommendation to the public authority, with the measures to be taken, in order to remove the situation which may lead to corruption and with a deadline within which the Authority is obliged to act as recommended. Given all the newspapers that contain the proposal for a law on preventing corruption, I point out that by adopting this law, the Republic of Serbia will receive a modern framework that regulates this area and fulfil the recommendations of the specialised body of the Council of Europe. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the execution of criminal sanctions provides for measures which alter the way the prison is to be carried out, extending the jurisdiction of the judge for the execution of criminal sanctions, to decide that the sentence imposed for a period of up to one year is imposed in the rooms in which the sentenced person resides, the decision to be taken to be classified as a semi-open or open-ended department of the office may be referred to work outside the home office of the employer with full-time working hours, and that the remaining time is in the institution, as part of the preparation for the discharge and the decision on the early release of the sentenced with the maintenance of the sentence in certain cases, such as serious illness, severe disability, the age of convicted, where further execution of the sentence would be inhumanity. The draft law amends certain labour-legal provisions relating to employees of the Criminal Sanctions Administration, taking into account the specificity and complexity of the transactions they carry out, on the one hand, as well as the risk exposure. The decisions contained in the draft law amending and supplementing the Criminal Sanctions Law will contribute to better treatment of convicted persons, as well as to improving the status of civil servants employed by the Criminal Sanctions Administration. These are, in short, the most important solutions that contain these legal proposals. I would like to thank you for your attention and express my hope that after the debate in principle and in particular we will adopt the laws that are on the agenda today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-14-0.u54121	Thank you. The word is Alexander Pantic, election member of the High Council of the Judiciary of the Order of Judges. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-14-0.u54122	The Honorable President of the National Assembly, the Honorable Minister of Justice, the Honorable People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour and pleasant duty to present to you and explain the proposal for a decision of the Supreme Council to elect the President for the Supreme Court in Belgrade, the Third General Court in Sombor, the General Court in Bujanovac and the Criminal Court in Nis, as well as the motion for a decision to elect judges for the Administrative Court, which the Supreme Council of the Court established at a session held on 19 April 2019. Namely, the High Council of the Court of Justice in the "Official Messenger" of the Republic of Serbia No. 6/19 of 1 January 2019 and in the daily "Politicals" of 5 February 2019 announced the election of the President for the Supreme Court in Belgrade, the Third Basic Court in Belgrade, the General Court in Sombor, the General Court in Bujanovac and the Criminal Court in Nis, as well as the "Official Messenger" of the Republic of Serbia No. 103/18 of 26 December 2018 and the daily "Politika" of 28 December 2018, the election of four judges for the Administrative Court of Justice. The High Council of the Court of Justice, when setting out a proposal for a candidate for the Presidents of the Court, appreciated the ability of candidates to manage and organise cases, as established by the High Council of the Court of Justice on the basis of the Rules on criteria and criteria for the assessment of expertise, competence and dignity for selecting a judge in a permanent court office in a second or higher court and on criteria for proposing candidates for the President of the Court. In fact, these criteria refer to the work programme and talks with candidates. So these were the elements for determining the motion for a decision to elect the president of the courts for which the competition was called. Based on a work programme evaluated by the High Council of the judiciary committee and on the candidate's response to questions raised during the talks, the High Council of the judiciary has set a final assessment for candidates for the presidents of the courts and on the basis of this final assessment, the selection of candidates has been carried out. In addition to the final assessment based on the evaluation of the work programme and the assessment of the candidates' talks, the High Council of the judiciary also obtained an opinion on candidates from a session of all judges proposed to elect a president. The evaluation of the Commission for the implementation of the evaluation process and the determination of the assessment of the work of the judges and the President of the Court for the last three years has also been carried out, so that these four elements were crucial for proposing candidates for the Presidents of the Court. I can say that all candidates who have received the highest grade for the work programme and the highest score for answers to the questions they have given during the talks and all proposed candidates have the highest labour rating for the last three years. Also, the proposed candidates have the undivided support of the court judges proposed to elect a president. By applying these criteria and by virtue of Article 13. The Law on the High Council of the Judiciary, relating to Article 70. The High Council of the Court of Justice established at its meeting on 19 April 2019 the motion for a decision to elect the President of the Court of Justice and proposed to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia the selection of five candidates, namely: Aleksandra Stepanovic, Supreme Court Judge and acting President of the Supreme Court in Belgrade, was proposed for the election of the President of the Supreme Court in Belgrade; Dusan Agatonović, Judge of the Supreme Court in Belgrade and acting as President of the Third General Court in Belgrade was proposed for the election of the President of the Third General Court in Belgrade; Aleksandra Medurić Kalcan, judge and acting as President of the General Court in Sombor, was proposed for the election of President of the General Court in Sombor; Stanka Krstić, judge and acting President of the General Court in Bujanovac, was proposed for the election of the President of the General Court in Bujanovac and Mišavrško Sukriš, Presud. As regards the proposal for a decision to elect judges for the Administrative Court, the High Judicial Council has established the expertise, competence and dignity of the candidate for the Administrative Court under the provisions of the Court of Justice Act, the Rules on criteria and criteria for the assessment of the expertise, competence and dignity for the selection of the judge in the Permanent Court of Justice in the Second or Higher Court and on criteria for proposing candidates for the President of the Court of Justice, as well as the Rules on the programme and method of laying down examinations assessing the professionality and competence of the candidate for the judge to be elected for the first time. In this case, when proposing candidates for the selection of judges for the Administrative Court, the provisions of two regulations have been applied, bearing in mind that, on the ad for the selection of judges for the Administrative Court, candidates from the Court of Justice as well as other persons and judicial assistants have competed, and in this case, the provisions of the two Regulations have been applied. The High Council of the Court of Justice for Judges has obtained an assessment of the Commission's work to carry out the evaluation process and determine the assessment of the work of the Judges and the President of the Judges and the Commission has drawn up a previous list of candidates from the order of the Judges published on the website of the High Council of the judiciary. A previous list of candidates from the judge's office was delivered to the High Judicial Council. In relation to candidates who do not come from the order of judges, which means that judges and other persons, lawyers and persons employed in other bodies and organisations, a two-part examination has been conducted to assess their expertise and skills. It consists of a written test and a written task. The written test shall be carried out to determine their expertise, and the written task shall be carried out for the purpose of their competence. A written test and a written task shall also be assessed and a single assessment from the examinations shall be established on the basis of these assessments. In addition, the High Council of the Judiciary has obtained information and opinions on the expertise, competence and dignity of the candidates from the authorities and organisations in which the candidate has worked in the legal profession, and for the candidates coming from the courts, an opinion has been obtained from all the judges of the court from which the candidate comes, as the opinion of the session of all the Judges of the Court of Justice. In addition, in accordance with the provision of Article 50. The law on judges, for candidates coming from the order of judicial assistants, has also been given an assessment of their work. They are assessed every three years as "unsatisfactory", up to "particularly prominent". In view of these criteria laid down in the Rules of Procedure for the selection of Judges for the Administrative Court, both in the order of the candidates who come from the order of the Judges and for candidates in the order of the other persons, the High Council of the Judiciary is, on the basis of Article 51(1). The Law on Judges, held on 19 April 2019, laid down a motion for a decision to elect judges and proposed to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia the selection of four candidates, namely Vesna Slepcevic, a judicial assistant at the Administrative Court, was proposed to elect a judge for the Administration of the Court of Justice; Jasmina Minić, a judicial assistant, an adviser at the Supreme Cassation Court, was proposed to elect a judge for the Administrative Court; Vesna Ikonić, a judicial assistant at the Administrative Court, was proposed to elect a judge for the Administration of the Court of Justice and Maja Panic, a judicial assistant in the Administrative Court, was proposed to elect a judge for the Administrative Court. The explanation of these proposals to the High Council of the judiciary, as well as the biographies of the candidates, you have in the materials provided by the High Council of the Judiciary to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, so I will not take up time for you to repeat what is contained in the materials. If there is a need to give further notice on the proposed candidates, I am at your disposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-14-0.u54123	Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want a word? The word is Petar Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-14-0.u54124	Madam President, the Honorable Minister Kuburovic with his associates, Mr Pantic, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, the Committee on Justice, the state administration and local self-government adopted all proposed bills at the session yesterday and proposed to the National Assembly to adopt them in the voting day, in principle. The Committee also accepted a proposal from the High Judicial Council concerning the election of the two presidents of the courts, as well as the election of judges who were elected for the first time as judges, so it also sent a proposal to the National Assembly to elect proposed candidates for the first time in the day of voting for the presidents of the courts, i.e. judges who were elected for the first time. That would be about the board. Madam President of the Assembly, if you will allow me, since I have already stood up and received my word, I would like to say a few words as well as a representative of the JS parliamentary group on the proposed texts of the law. The JS parliamentary group, right at the start of the vote, will vote on all proposed laws, both in the area of the judiciary and in the area of financial contracts that are on the agenda today. Let me look back on each of the proposed laws in a few words. Certainly, the most public attention in the Republic of Serbia, but for a longer period of time, is prompted by the proposal to amend and supplement the Criminal Code of the Republic of Serbia. This is because a new sentence has been proposed in this bill for perpetrators of the most serious crimes, which is a life sentence that changes the earlier provision of the Penal Code which envisioned that criminal measures be imposed between 30 and 40 years of strict imprisonment. As far as the JS parliamentary group is concerned, there is no dilemma. We fully support such an amendment to the Bills of Laws, and we believe that it may have been necessary to move to an amendment to this code sooner, given that many EU countries, which we are seeking and whose judiciary we want to see in many ways, are facing this kind of most severe punishment. What JS, the MP club JS, is a little bit, I pick words, I don't know how to find an adequate word, it irritates us that many so-called. associations, some professional, civil, etc. They mention one word, which is that by adopting this bill, by adopting the possibility of expressing themselves for the most serious crimes, a life sentence would be inhumane. Now I ask, as a citizen, as an MP, as a member of the JS MP club – do those who say that this punishment is inhumane think about what humanity is like for victims who have been committed by this crime? Is humanity to their parents, brothers, sisters, family, etc? Do we need to take more care of perpetrators of serious crimes and to be human to them or do we need to worry more about the consequences of such acts for the general public in Serbia? To be honest, as an individual, this is not a JS position, long ago, since 2002, when I was an MP, I have advocated the death penalty for the most serious crimes. It has not been accepted for the reason that the death penalty has long been abolished in Europe, but I think the pandan of that most severe sentence is still a life sentence. What is also foreseen in the law is this kind of humanity, which is that after 27 years of detention, that person has the right to request parole. The law, however, stipulates that the parole must take a maximum of 10 years. I've intervened with one amendment, I think the government will accept it, so that the deadline will be 15 years. We'll see what happens in the end. What we also support is that, in Article 55, that is, Article 8 of the current Code proposal, which refers to Article 55 of the original law, those persons previously convicted of criminal acts, which have been committed with imagination, cannot be punished less than the minimum provided for in that type of act for which they are accused. Also, in multiple returnees, it is good that the Ministry recognized this and proposed in Article 9 a new member, that two and more returnees, and were previously convicted of acts committed with the intention of being sentenced to a minimum of 50% of the penalties provided for in the law. Simply, we, as a society and legislator, have to stand in the way of returnees with criminal acts done that at least threatened with punishment in some way, we have to let them know that they will be more severely punished, because in practice, courts have unfortunately repeatedly made such judgments for the same or similar crimes where the maltenes were mild, not to say anything else, or have been conditional or with minimum penalties. What I would like to commend, for my esteemed colleague, Neda Jovanovic, that it has been done that it is now formed, to say so, and to threaten the punishment for a crime -- an attack on a lawyer, or on members of his family, and I think that this is how we protect this profession, which is, unfortunately, sometimes with the consequences, to be as protected, by being threatened, that is, the penalty for assaulting a lawyer, that is, the members of his family. I would no longer abide by this law, only to say that this law is fully in line with the views of the JS parliamentary group. I say it one more time, we'll back him up. When it comes to the second law that is on the agenda today, which is the Code of Criminal Procedure, just one sentence to say, that since it is a matter of harmonising the text of this Law with the already proposed Criminal Code, that it is simply, let me say, a technical question. I would not continue to abide by these other laws, such as the Law on the confiscation of property stemmed from a criminal offence, as well as the Law on the execution of criminal sanctions, but I would only give myself the right to comment on the new Anti-Corruption Agency Act with a few sentences. What we like about JS is that the Ministry has been able to overcome some, I would say, even pressures from various influences, that when it comes to reporting property to officials, because I know that in some former working materials there were hints and even suggestions, that public officials must report property and adult children, sister-in-law, friends, godfathers, etc. And I think it's accepted to go into a dangerous situation, a dangerous extreme, where we couldn't handle it. We did, however, keep the ministry in the proposal, to say conditionally existing solutions, that a public official must report the property of a spouse or an out-of-marriage friend and minor children living with him in the household, and I think that round ends well. In case there are doubts that there are connected persons with a public official, that the property is, I say, acquired in some other way that is not within the framework of the positive regulations, then there is a way to verify it by the Agency. There is one more thing to praise, when it comes to this law, which is that now the committees in local parliaments, the municipalities of cities, city municipalities, don't have to report property, if I understand correctly. If I said they're not public officials, they don't have to report property, because there's a lot, and it would be a lot of burden on the Anti-Corruption Agency or what it's called now. For this reason, we welcome this legislative proposal in Article 70. The Anti-Corruption Agency Act, that is, to prevent corruption. That would end my presentation, I wouldn't continue to owe it, not to convince other provisions of existing legal proposals. Finally, I would like to say once again that the parliamentary group in the voting day will support these laws, and at the same time I would like to stress that we will support the proposal of the Single Council of the judiciary when it comes to proposals for the election of the two presidents of the courts at the moment and several judges both of the Administrative Court and others who are first elected to this judicial post. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-14-0.u54125	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger Balint Pastor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-14-0.u54126	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SVM will support all the proposed laws, and above all, I would like to talk about a proposal to amend and supplement the Criminal Code. It is very good that this proposal has come to the agenda and this is precisely the kind of solution proposed, but it should also be said at the beginning that the cause or perhaps most important and also the most tragic cause of proposing such legal changes is the death of Tijana Juric, a 15-year-old subotic woman who was brutally murdered in 2014 in Baimek on the territory of the town of Subotica. Meanwhile, a "Tijana Juric" Foundation was established. The foundation collected 158,000 citizens' signatures in a very short time. It is five times the minimum number for the People's Initiative, and this condition is prescribed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. This suggests that the vast majority of citizens of the Republic of Serbia support such legal solutions, i.e. such proposals to amend the Criminal Code. If we talk about it then I think it is important to point out not only because of the Tijana Juric Foundation, but also because it is very important that citizens agree with the objectives of the Criminal Code and with the criminal policy of the state. This is extremely important because of the principle of legitimacy, and I think it is very important that these legal changes are proposed for another purpose of punishment, which is to achieve justice and proportionality between the crime and the severity of criminal sanctions. It is simply amazing that this purpose of punishment, this goal of punishment was not previously prescribed by our Criminal Code, but rather the general prevention, the special prevention, the expression of social condemnation and the strengthening of morals, but it is very important to achieve both justice and proportionality between the crime and the severity of criminal sanctions, and I think that the regulation of this purpose of punishment is almost as important as the institute of life imprisonment, this new institute or institute that is reintroduced into our criminal law. We in SVM simply think that maybe revenge in the classical sense of the word shouldn't be the aim of criminal legislation and maybe we shouldn't follow the principle of eye for eye, tooth for tooth, but again, criminal policy should be fair and should be proportionate. We simply need to be aware that both in our society and in other societies, in European and other countries, there are persons, there are citizens who are simply not ready, they are not simply similar to being part of society. There is simply a category of the population, these are the factors of the most serious crimes committed in a ferocious way in which it is simply very difficult to imagine resociation and reintegration into society. These may be attitudes that challenge the work of our professional public, but on the other hand, citizens' signatures and conversations with citizens suggest that people in our country are supporters of stricter punishment for certain crimes. What do certain citizens in the Republic of Serbia, who oppose such proposals by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the "Tijana Juric" Foundation? They say the introduction of a life sentence without parole is a violation of human rights. They say that it is contrary to the practice of the European Court of Human Rights, that it is contrary to the Constitution, that rehabilitation and resociation of convicts in society should be a goal that is more important than any other objective, that man cannot be deprived of hope and that is where the perpetrators of the most serious crimes are thought. We say that there is an authority in the Republic of Serbia, it is the Constitutional Court which can only appreciate whether the adopted law is in accordance with the Constitution or not. I am sure there will be an initiative or a proposal for an assessment of constitutionality, but I am deeply convinced that this bill of law and law will be adopted within days that it is in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. When we look at a little parallel law, then we come to the conclusion and the fact that in 183 states and territories of 216, there is either a life sentence or a death sentence. It means 183 of 216 states and territories. In 33 countries alone, death penalty or life imprisonment are not the most severe sanctions. There are countries in Europe that are members, not only of the Council of Europe, but of the EU, in which there is also a prison for life and a real life prison. It is, for example, the Kingdom of Holland, where life means life. This is Hungary, so nothing has been proposed which already exists in parallel legislation, in EU Member States' legislation. If he can do it in those countries, then I think he can do it in the Republic of Serbia. For example, in the Kingdom of the Netherlands, a life sentence means life imprisonment because it is the only possibility that a life sentence, a king or queen, may be executed for life, to pardon a criminal who is sentenced to life imprisonment. There is no parole, there is no parole, and that possibility will, of course, exist in our Criminal Law because no one can restrict the President of the Republic to how and in which case he will use his jurisdiction. I'm referring to the jurisdiction of pardoning. There's a very similar solution in Hungary. Since a few years ago and again as regards comparative practices and some other countries where there is a life sentence, but with the possibility of parole, statistics must be said to speak of increasing the number of convictions that contain a life sentence for perpetrators of the most serious crimes in the countries of the Council of Europe. The concept of life imprisonment was otherwise introduced in the 1990s in many Member States of the Council of Europe, following the ratification of the Sixth European Convention on Human Rights, and the protocol abolished the death penalty. Again, this is very little to be said about, especially those who are opposed to these proposed solutions, that in 2014 about 7,500 prisoners were held in custody without a set deadline for reasons of security or protection of public security in various states of the Council of Europe, especially in the United Kingdom, Germany, Italy and Switzerland. For all these reasons, we think a good solution is proposed. This solution is balanced because on the one hand, the possibility of life imprisonment is introduced, but always as an alternative that there will also be a parole institute in the event of life imprisonment except for five crimes, i.e. for the most difficult forms of five crimes. I think that if you taxively state what these crimes are, then it is evident that it is very fair, fair and simple that for the perpetrators of these crimes for the perpetrators of the most severe forms of these crimes there is no parole. It's a difficult murder, or murder of a child or a burdensome woman, rape with a fatal outcome, a promise over an powerless person with a fatal outcome, a promise with a child with a fatal outcome and a promise of abuse of a position with a fatal outcome. I think that in these cases it is most normal and most natural that the perpetrators of these crimes, not after 27 or 30 years, are free members of this society, because it is hard to imagine in their case that resociation can work precisely, that they can integrate into society and can become, I will be so direct as to say, normal members of our society. We also support all other proposals for amendments to the Criminal Code. First of all, I think of the solutions to the return and the tightening of the punishment for so-called. the ordinary return, and it is very good that the new institute is a multiple return and that in that case the court will be obliged to impose a sentence above half the prescribed sentence. We also support the introduction of a new criminal offense against a lawyer. We support the changes and additions made to the crimes of endangering the safety of air traffic, recruiting and training for acts of terrorism. I think it's maximum in line with today's circumstances in the world, and it's a good thing the government reacted that way. I can say the same about the addition of the criminal act of unauthorized production and the placing on the market of intoxicating drugs and the use of intoxicating drugs. We also support all other draft laws in this set of criminal laws, as well as the draft laws on preventing corruption, and we hope that the proposal for a law on the origin of property will arrive here very soon at the National Assembly. We are not the ones who have something against it, the minister said that there is also a ruling coalition of parties and individuals who do not exactly expect this legislative proposal to arrive at the National Assembly, we do not belong to that category, but I would like to confirm that we are looking forward to this legislative proposal reaching the National Assembly and it would be very important that as soon as the National Assembly adopts that law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-14-0.u54127	The word has a minister, Mrs. Nela Kuburovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-14-0.u54128	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am pleased that you have referred so much to the imposition of a life sentence and, citing and a solution comparable, which exists in countries, members of the Council of Europe, and it is true that there are members of the Council of Europe who have a life sentence, where there is no possibility of parole, such as the Netherlands. But if you look at the official reports, which are on the Council of Europe's website, which is currently being dealt with by the European Committee for the Prevention of Torture and Inhuman or Demeaning Treatment and Penalty, there are some other countries that do not have the possibility of parole, such as Lithuania, Malta and Belgium. So, Serbia is not the only country that proposes, for certain crimes, the introduction of a life sentence without the possibility of parole. Chuck, these are the countries that, for all the crimes, where life imprisonment is scheduled, do not foresee the possibility of parole at all. In the bill of law, which lies before you today, the general rule is that parole exists, which can be discussed after 27 years. The exception is several serious crimes that, above all, affect children, who are affected by pregnant women, and this was proposed by the "Tijane Juric" Foundation initiative, to make parole impossible for this round of crimes. Today, I also had the opportunity to hear some representatives of the opposition, who claim to have supported the "Tijana Juric" Foundation's initiative, that they then signed to introduce a life sentence, and today they claim that this law, proposed, is not Tijana Juric's law and are calling for the very provisions of parole. If you look at the proposal the Foundation has submitted, it also proposes the introduction of a life sentence, but also the inability to parole. We have had the opportunity to listen to criticism these days that this law was quickly in front of the MPs and that this important thing was not enough public debate, but I must also say for the sake of the public that in 2015, when amendments and additions to the Criminal Code were being prepared, which you just adopted in 2016, suggested the introduction of a life imprisonment and then a public debate was organised, primarily called on the expert public to make their views known. What I have to say is that the professional public is pretty much gone, it seems to me that maybe they weren't brave enough, they weren't even loud enough to say what their position is about life imprisonment. Today, individual representatives of the profession can only be heard in the context of mentioning the possibility, i.e. the inability of parole and how the provisions and recommendations of the European Court of Human Rights are thus violated, and I would like those representatives to at least look at the verdicts of the perpetrators of the most serious crimes and why the Ministry of Justice and the Government of the Republic of Serbia have accepted the Juric Foundation's initiative that there is no possibility of parole for certain crimes. Unfortunately, some events that took place only a few years ago forced us to react. This is exactly the reaction to the most savage murder, for the greatest, I must say, monsters. When you read what was done and what was stated in those judgments, I simply don't know how anyone, who is the protector of any human rights, can say that such persons should have the possibility of parole. It is not only Tijana Juric, who died in 2014, that I will remind you that in 2016, she was brutally murdered and before that, raped little Angela of three years of age by a person who had also committed another murder. Then you also had the murder of Maria Jovanovic. The murder of little Ivana Podrascic, who was also 14 years old, has been committed by a person who must have had five to six convictions before that and a conviction for murder and a conviction for multiple rapes, which means he was a returnee when it comes to rape. So, right now, unfortunately, life is denying us, and very often we have to get out of the framework regarding the protection of human rights in theory. The practice has unfortunately shown that individuals cannot be resocialized and that they do not deserve to be found at large precisely because they are returnees who again commit those crimes after leaving a sustained prison sentence. Someone would say that this is an inhuman punishment and that there is much to be achieved with a sentence of 30 to 40 years of age, because it is about persons who are after a sustained sentence of older age. But I'll tell you that just one of these vicious crimes committed by a person who was 68 years old at the time of the crime. The person who killed little Angela two years ago committed the crime at age 28. He was sentenced to 40 years in prison and will probably be free after 40 years, then he will be 70 years old. Can he commit this crime again? Right now, life has been denied and shown that it is possible. It is precisely all the reasons why the Ministry of Justice and the Government of the Republic of Serbia accepted the initiative that parole does not exist for the most serious crimes involving the victims of minors and children. I hope exactly that by the MPs and this proposal will be supported in exactly this form, because this is not only the victory of the Tijana Juric Foundation, this is a way to repay the children who have been killed in such a cruel way.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-14-0.u54129	Thank you. Do any of the other authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? (No) I set a break, a regular break. We continue work at 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-14-0.u54130	Dear People's MPs, we continue our work. Anyone from the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, who wishes a word, should apply. The word is Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-14-0.u54131	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mrs Kuburovic and her associates, ladies and gentlemen, we have amendments and additions that our criminal legislation will improve and deserve the public's attention, but certainly also a quality debate in parliament. It is a clear intention of the state to face the most dangerous types of crime, precisely through changes and additions to certain laws and implementation of systemic measures. In a comprehensive way, concrete issues must be addressed and criminal policy changes to ensure that the fight against crime is effective. For this very reason, the amendments and additions to the Criminal Code are before us. The results of the analysis of the current criminal policy have just referred to its necessary change. First and when penalties are not minor, there is very often a situation in which minimum penalties are imposed in the procedure or the procedure is used by the institute to mitigate penalties, while the maximum penalties have almost never been imposed. Take, for example, the crime of rape. In 36% of the cases, three-year sentence has been imposed, 34% of the time the sentence is between three and five years in prison. The question arises why the sentence of up to 12 years in prison is foreseen, if in 70% of the crimes in its maximum was a five-year sentence, i.e. it ranged between three and five years. The results of the criminal policy analysis are similar for many more crimes. Does this mean, then, that there is a decriminalization of criminal acts in this way and that it would be a good message to be sent by a state that is currently governing criminal policy? These are just some issues that have led to a reflection on the increase in minimum and maximum penalties for all criminal acts involving violent behaviour, but will also be provided for qualified forms of criminal offences, which means more severe punishment, such as unauthorized production and the marketing of intoxicating drugs and the provision of intoxicating drugs. Most of the time should be devoted to certainly the most significant amendment to the Criminal Code, which is the introduction of a life imprisonment, as a sentence that will replace a prison sentence of 30 to 40 years. These changes include the "Tijana Juric" Foundation's initiative, so the sentence of a life imprisonment is intended for crimes – rape, promise of an powerless face, promise of a child and promise of abuse of a position, and when the crime has resulted in the death of a person or was committed against a child. In this regard, the changes proposed further relate to parole. They predict that a person sentenced to life imprisonment can be suspended after 27 years in prison, and there is no parole for crimes covered by the "Tijane Juric" initiative. The president of Serbia and the Serbian government protect basic values -- children, pregnant women, family as a pillar of our society. Unfortunately, however, even such sensitive issues are used by a part of the opposition to collect cheap political points. First, they threw fire at us, according to the government of the Republic of Serbia, which we allegedly didn't want to pass Tijana's law, led in the media a move against the president of Serbia and the Serbian government, wrote that they were ignoring Igor Juric, that even no one wanted to talk to him. And now that the proposals of the Tijana Juric Foundation have entered the procedure, they are now saying that such solutions do not comply with European standards. This clearly speaks of the peak hypocrisy of those who care neither about children nor family, nor about the rights or status of women in Serbia. They deal with tents, blocking works, blocking traffic, preventing Serbia from being a decent and regulated country under the rule of law in any way. Such men have given themselves the right to criticise the punishment of rapists and child murderers. And while we're still on the ground of criminal policy, if we compare the penalties provided for in certain criminal acts, we'll see that criminal policy is more severe. For example, for a crime of abuse and torture, the sentence of one to eight years is changed by two to 10 years. What is very important for domestic violence, if the death of a family member occurs, will be punished by a five to 15-year prison instead of three to 15 years. If a family member is a minor, the sentence is at least 10 years in prison. We have a felony assault on an official in the performance of official duty, instead of three months to three years now a sentence of one to five years. These are just some of the examples that show a high degree of state readiness to deal with crime. Another newspaper is a stricter criminal policy when it comes to returnees where the practical level of minimum penalties will increase with each subsequent execution of the crime. With all this, of course, there will be some more reforms that will include additional involvement of judges and prosecutors, i.e. courts and prosecutors, because if we want the trial to end in a year, they will also have to ensure the continuity of the main investigation. I think it's also very important to introduce a new crime, which is an assault on a lawyer, where a three-month-to-three-year prison sentence is foreseen for a primary crime. So, in line with the proposal of the Serbian Bar Association, who attacks a lawyer or a member of his family, and in connection with the exercise of the lawyer's service, which is foreseen as a basic act that will have its qualified forms for which a more severe prison sentence will be provided. Of course, due to the changes and additions proposed, it is logical to follow the amendments and additions of the Code of Criminal Procedure. In doing so, we are given here today and some changes and additions, which concern certain technical matters, i.e. here are here because of the amendment and addition of the 2016 Criminal Code, and it concerns crimes against the economy, so that it would now only work on compliance. We also have a bill on amendments and additions to the law on the confiscation of property arising from the criminal act, and this is also about some technical matters, about changes in technical character, the reason is also the alignment with changes and additions to the 2016 Criminal Code. The changes and additions that are more extensive also concern the draft law on amendments and additions to the law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions. These amendments and additions concern the extension of the jurisdiction of judges for the execution of criminal sanctions and are provided for by the following competences. So, making a decision to impose a one-year sentence in the rooms where the convicted lives. They will also be authorised to make decisions, so that the convicted can be directed to work outside the office, if it is classified in a semi-open or open office department, by spending full-time with the employer and spending the rest of their working hours at the office. There is also a decision on the temporary dismissal of a convicted person with the maintenance of a prison sentence if further execution of the sentence would be inhumane, for example, in case of serious illness, severe disability or age. Here, in this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Sanctions, there are still amendments and additions, they mainly refer to the conditions necessary to appoint the Director of Administration, refer to the calls of employees, but also to the implementation of training and training of staff in the administration. Finally, there is also a bill on preventing corruption. The fight against corruption is very important and is one of the priorities in Serbia's reform process. Serbia is the first state, I would like to remind you that Serbia is the first state to be part of a network of corruption prevention institutions established in 2018, which now accounts for more than 15 countries, and the goal is to exchange information and good practices in the fight against corruption. We have so far succeeded, somewhat to change the perception of the citizens of corruption to change their trust, to restore their trust in the judicial system that was seriously hit by 2012, to restore their trust in the work of the state authorities that are competent to deal with corruption. Bringing these laws, strengthening institutions, networking these institutions will further contribute to the citizens' view of improving the fight against corruption and, in practice, creating a more favourable, better, healthier environment, not only for foreign investment, but also for the development of economy and economy in general. Serbia, I would say, is on a good track in the systematic fight against corruption and all institutions participate in this fight against corruption without exception. The work of special anti-corruption departments within the four centres located in Belgrade, Nis, Novi Sad and Kralje is particularly important. Accordingly, there has been an increase in the number of convictions when it comes to criminal acts with a corrupt element. In the last year, we have over 400 convictions that have been sentenced to prison, and more than 10,000 criminal charges have been filed by the prosecution. This fight will also contribute to the adoption of laws on the prevention of corruption. First of all, in the previous Anti-Corruption Agency Act, which is still valid, there have been a number of vague provisions in this law that have been seen in the application of the law itself, this mainly concerned the reporting of assets and income of officials to conflict of interest, to cumulation of public functions, to deadlines that must be respected. This law will establish a normative framework, on the other hand, respect international obligations, reduce the risk of corruption and strengthen the responsibility of both public authorities and public officials. It won't be possible for officials like they used to use public functions to make personal wealth and monopolies for their own business. I hope we no longer have cases where someone like Gilas, after a term of office, acquires property that is measured by hundreds of millions of euros. Is that the purpose of public function? Is the goal of someone, even if it was Dragan Gilas, destroying the city to secure 500m euros? Did every public investment in Gilas' time in Belgrade have to grow into an affair and be a synonym for thieving? It's all just examples, and it's just some examples from our close past that I'm sure this law will stop. It is clear from everything that the state has a firm commitment to combat crime and corruption, to stand in the way of all forms of crime and to give citizens complete legal certainty. For all these reasons, I call on all the MPs to support these bill proposals but to give support and the government and president of Serbia's efforts to make Serbia a decent and orderly country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-14-0.u54132	Thank you, colleague Žarić Kovacevic. The word has been made by Professor Dr. Vojislav Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-14-0.u54133	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, these changes to criminal laws, I purposely say criminal laws, because these are all laws that fall within the area of criminal law, were a chance to finally codify our criminal code. In the '90s, we had about 50 crimes in other laws, not the Criminal Code. I hated it, to tell you the truth that I'm counting how many we have now, but we have a lot more crimes in other laws than it was in the '90s. Instead of cutting it down at the end and ending it. Napoleon has also codified his entire French criminal law, and many European countries have taken over. All civilized states actually tookover Napoleon's Penal Code. We should finally do it. So all crimes are concentrated in the Criminal Code. Secondly, a significant change is being made here regarding criminal policy but our problem is that criminal policy is literally left to judges and even the judicial council does not adhere to some established practice but each judge according to its own opinion. There's no single criminal policy, so we can have a case where one judicial council assesses something as a serious crime, the other as easier, and the third as no crime. We also have some things here that are pretty nebulous. For example, special protection of a lawyer. Why just a lawyer? We're protecting a lawyer, and maybe his client is mad at him for selling him in the process. Well, he even has motives that are quite correct. Of course, a conviction is a criminal assault on a lawyer, but when a case is investigated, there are a lot of extenuating circumstances. Which then we didn't protect the professors that the students could beat up on the street because they got a bad grade. We have cases like that. What about protecting the bakeries? If one day his oven wasn't working properly so the bread wasn't baked enough, he could get beat up for it. Why not protect plumbers, electricians and many other professions? Why lawyers? We can't put too many faces out like this. It's even too much that we've singled out the bearers of the highest public functions, because it's important to bear in mind that murder is murder. A qualified form of murder is a murder for some political reasons. This is not considered immoral in a civilized world, but it is punished by severe penalties, because it is socially dangerous. So it's one thing to kill someone for favor, and the other to kill for political reasons. We had cases in the 19th century with anarchists who were sentenced to very severe punishments, but if they didn't get the death penalty, then they enjoyed all the privileges in prisons as political prisoners unlike those who were considered to have committed crimes, and not honorable people. We had at the trial of communists in the first half of the 20th century that they had special treatment and were not obliged to work, especially not heavy physical labors, because they were thought to be something else for political reasons in prison compared to these criminals who steal, who kill from dishonest initiatives. We must bear in mind that we have a very bad situation in the judiciary itself. We've had several processes that still represent the great shame of our judicial system. We've had the procedure of Saric, you here, Minister, treat the issue of confiscation of property acquired by criminal acts, but we have the case that the man was arrested, as a suspect, and that he was immediately robbed of property and that the state authorities were involved in the robbery. I watched, I was on an official trip to the EU, there I gained valuable experience for further political engagement, so I watched on TV what it looks like when Saric's assets were stretched out, and now the court has no evidence against him, it would have to pass a liberating verdict. They hesitate to do it, they keep on making it difficult, but all that unscathed property has to come back to him. Everything that was taken from him went to the era, what people were taking in private, even government officials employed in state services, etc. He's got to get everything back to him. He has not committed any crimes in Serbia. When he was arrested, there was no change in the price of drugs on the Serbian market at all, and we know who dictates from our ranks the price of drugs on the Serbian market, not to turn away from the topic now. So what he's been doing out there, there's no adequate evidence. There are only doubts, there are reports of some great forces that say – you need to arrest him and convict him. We have the case of Nate Mesarovic, who tried the alleged murderers of Zoran Djindjic. After a year, she didn't have the status right to continue to judge. A new President of the Judicial Council was to be appointed and the process should have passed since the beginning, however, has not been done so and these people are practically innocent in prison. Why does the state put up with innocent people doing time? Is there anything that might have been proven to them? Furthermore, we have a case that two suspects were arrested for the murder of Djindjic, questioned under beatings, and then killed and taken to Meljak to pretend that they were found there and liquidated there because they resisted. The government killed them. We need to get this straight. Furthermore, we have the case of Zvezdan Jovanovic, who has been beaten by everything the police asked him to do. However, only the moment General Papaya Rodoljub Milojic threatened to liquidate his entire family and this one answered him, write down whatever you want me to sign, without a lawyer present. Then they found an immoral lawyer, Vesna Radomirovic, who agreed to sign that she attended a full hearing, and it is not true. She's being prosecuted in front of the bar and allowed to become obsolete. You know all this in the Justice Department, don't you, Minister? You don't know. Well, well, then you need to hang out with me more, maybe you can take me there as a counselor, I know everything. (Alexandra Tomic: Can't by new law. Conflict of interest. You got it, you got it. You can do anything whenever you want. So these are the things that our judiciary is pushing to the lowest possible branches. When it comes to these crimes that are mentioned, we Serbian radicals, through the amendments, have proposed another crime -- that the most severe, life-long prison or if you want a compromise solution, we can agree with 20 years in prison, all those who publicly claim that Srebrenica was genocide. In our opinion, there can be no more serious crime in Serbia than condemning its own people and the state for genocide. The people of these things are not for play, genocide cannot be done by an individual, even if his name is Adolf Hitler. Genocide can't execute a group of people, genocide can only execute a state or possibly a pair of states, others can't execute genocide. When it is said that there is genocide in Srebrenica, both the Serbian state and the Serbian people are accused, not only of Republika Srpska, but also of Republika Srpska, which is why they care to drag it through our judicial system, so once you had the opportunity to act wisely and intelligently, when you last changed the Criminal Law, there I am giving you the confession, that there will be tried by those who deny the International Criminal Tribunal's verdict, it is not The Hague tribunal, but it is the International Criminal Court of the Roman Statute and who deny the ruling of the domestic court for genocide, there is no denying the UN tribunal's verdict and it is well done, however, we have a phenomenon that for money greater than or less than foreign intelligence services and NGOs are freely brought into Serbian public opinion that the genocide in Srebrenica was genocide. That's what some newspapers do, some electronic media do, individuals do, completely uninterrupted. Now, that should come under the influence of the law and under the most severe criminal penalty. We can't play with that. Do you know what it means when someone is left with a genocide charge when someone is declared genocide? You can see how far Turkey rises from its stained vessels to prevent European Parliaments, including worldly ones, from accepting that there was genocide over the Armenians. You see how many attempts were made to deny genocide against the Jews, you see how many Croats deny genocide against both Jews and Serbs and the Roma. In World War II, there was genocide against Serbs and Jews, and in the Roma, it was also in the Russians, it was in the Poles and they were killed in millions of numbers. We cannot allow such things to be done here under our state, our legal system. We've seen that there's been some kind of criminal activity here that it's impossible to apply for parole. Now, emotionally, I'm up for it. So, for killing children, for raping children, powerless, mutilated, incompetent, etc. Although I have been adversaries of the death penalty since I was young and joined that anti-death penalty association that Ivan Jankovic has formed in the first place, so I am, in principle, against the death penalty, even in this case I would give in and say - for such cases, a death sentence may be. But keep one thing in mind. Modern frienology considers that laws that make it impossible for any crime and for any punishment to be parole, that they are considered inhumane, and that very term is mentioned, that is, inhumane. I'm glad this will be adopted, but you will come back to the National Assembly for a while to change it, because someone from the European Union will make you. And I would have stayed here on purpose, so that would be a reason no longer to be admitted into the EU. In another way, it can be prevented, in the case of such delicacies, that unwanted people appear again on the loose and threaten to repeat crimes. In sexual delicacies, some countries have introduced the possibility of castration, which the convict voluntarily agrees to. Of course, the chemical means to suppress his sexual drive, and he's more absolutely uninterested in repeating the crimes he's being tried for. But not in the case of child rape, I repeat again, but in the ordinary crimes of rape. In that case, the penalty could be reduced by maybe two-thirds if he agrees to castration. Unfortunately, castration cannot be done without the consent of the convicts. It can only be done with his consent. So she gives up her sexual drive and lives on, she can read books, write. A little black humor. But I mean it when I say this. As far as life imprisonment is concerned, the problem is that in the beginning there is already killing the desire to live in prison. Some crimes may well kill a desire to live, so he dies sooner or commits suicide or something else. We had in practice a prison guard in Zenica who killed 11 people in 1985. He took the gun from the prison, went to get the woman and killed everyone who ever resented him. That's how he killed 11 people. Of course, he was declared crazy and was in Central Prison in a prison psychiatric hospital. He even wrote me a letter once, because I was in Zenica at the time he committed those crimes, so I guess he kind of thought I was an accomplice. In that letter, he complained of difficult conditions, asked for help, and in no word did he mention murder. He killed himself first. So when the hope of life is lost, when the will to live is lost, then they cover their own sufferings and these are quite common cases. It's a lot of common cases with these long-distance convicts. But there are people who, especially if convicted innocents or convicted of some of their ideals, and even, if you will, and political delicacies, then they can serve a hundred years without showing a moment of weakness and not show any fear, or hope, or willingness to commit suicide or anything like that. We, with this parole here, must have stopped at those 27 years of sustained punishment in the most serious crimes. I've been doing some research on how much practice there is in Europe. In Germany, at the age of 12, parole can be sought in prison for life. In some countries 20, in some 24, etc. I don't think that's supposed to be the longest for us. There's one problem with the UN tribunal, which they didn't foresee parole for life in prison. But for all those who are sentenced to time sentences, the possibility of getting rid of one-third of the sentence is foreseen. It happened regularly up to a few years ago, and then some refused to give that one third in terms of parole. For a life sentence, they didn't foresee parole either. And that would have to be, at least for those who did these four, five worst crimes, that was some number of 30 years, for example. But to leave that possibility. Then a committee is formed to talk and assess whether something in that man's psyche has changed. Believe me, nothing can change for the better after all these years of prison. If he was willing to kill a child, he can't become a better man with a long sentence. So he's not hard to keep in prison walls, but he must at least formally provide that opportunity to seek, in order to be consistent with the modernities of frienology, which seeks not to take away hope from any convict.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-14-0.u54134	Thank you. The word has a minister of justice, Nela Kuburovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-14-0.u54135	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm glad you mentioned such a long life sentence and delivered your opinion. We've had opportunities over the past few years since the Department of Justice even started the story that life imprisonment is being introduced into our Criminal Code to hear these comments. But let me try to be as brief as possible and let you know why we've defined ourselves for some solutions. You're saying that it may be a 27-year deadline to set as a deadline for reviewing parole and that practice in European countries is different, so you mention the example of Germany. But I have to tell you that in Germany, there are also a lot more minor crimes than the ones we predicted here today, where life imprisonment is pronounced, so for example, illegal car races where the outcome of the death penalty is pronounced, and then you see that the severity of the crimes for which this punishment is prescribed is not the same. We have defined that the most serious crimes, the crimes of murder, the crimes of rape and the promises of an powerless person, if they have a fatal consequence, have a life sentence. Don't forget the most prescribed sentence we've ever had. It's a sentence of 30 to 40 years to be replaced by a life sentence where parole can only be questioned after 26 years and eight months, if I'm not mistaken, so that's exactly why life imprisonment is set for 27. We had to make a clear distinction as to why this punishment is a more severe punishment than 30 to 40 years. It is certainly a punishment that replaces the death penalty that existed before. I don't know why the intensity of our legislation was like that when a sentence of 30 to 40 years of imprisonment was prescribed when the death penalty was lifted? Why, then and then, as most European countries, did we not provide for a life sentence? Whether life imprisonment is human or not, it is certainly not human, but yet I say it is pronounced by the perpetrators of the most serious crimes. What prompted the European Court of Human Rights and the practice of the European Court of Justice for why parole should be introduced was very often also related to the conditions in which convicted persons support those penalties. They were very often completely separatized in most European countries where they support punishment, completely separatized by other convicted persons, where they were imprisoned in their cells for 20 hours and had no right to leave. So, it was precisely inhumane conditions for the maintenance of the sentence that were the reasons why the European Court of Human Rights asked for the possibility of parole and reviewing penalties precisely because of inhumane conditions of maintenance. What I'm trying to say is that I believe that the court will never again be able to apply this sentence, or we won't be able to have the murders of children and minors, so we don't even give the European Court of Human Rights the opportunity to appreciate whether the sentence of life is human or not. What I will agree with you is that it is certainly the practice of the courts that has now forced the Government of the Republic of Serbia to approach the amendments to the Criminal Law, prescribing different conditions when measuring penalties, which is precisely a mild criminal policy. You say that courts do not act equally, but unfortunately, when it comes to criminal proceedings and how uniform court practice is. It is uniform in this sense that there is a mild criminal policy. For very dangerous crimes and for very serious crimes very often, minimum sentences are imposed. An example is a rape crime, where a sentence of five to 12 years is prescribed. It's very rare to impose a penalty that goes to maximum. And, here, if we look at the statistics for 2018, there's a court that said house arrest for the crime of rape. Whether it's possible or not, I wouldn't engage, and I wouldn't comment on a concrete decision. Whether such a decision is fair or not, but it only shows you that in our practice there is a mild criminal policy. There is a mild criminal policy when it comes to criminal acts with an element of violence, where over 50% of the basic courts have issued conditional convictions. When it comes to the crime of domestic violence, it is also such a high percentage of the sentence of parole, and that kind of criminal policy exists when it comes to illicit drug holding. It was precisely the reason why both the Government and the President of the Republic insisted that we work to tighten the criminal policy, to introduce new procedures when measuring the penalty, so it is foreseen for the returnees that if he has already committed a criminal offence with the idea that this must be a more difficult circumstance, rather than that the court appreciates whether earlier condemnation is a difficult environment or not. Multiple returnees are foreseen that the court cannot impose a sentence below minimum, and for those persons who have committed a crime two or more times must be above half the legal minimum. We listened to criticism that this would not reduce the number of crimes committed. We are certainly aware that at the outset of this law this law cannot be done, but the point is that whoever commits crimes is aware that he will be punished, or that he will be adequately punished, and not that he is left with the possibility that, after his parole, he will continue to commit crimes for whom he was convicted, particularly crimes involving drug production, drug trafficking. That's why the big changes are in that part. Together with the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Health, these crimes have been audited, primarily to protect minors and children. So, despite your comments that you've made at the expense of parole, and you haven't been there when I've been instructed by examples of the murders and the way they've been done and by the people who are multiple returnees, multiple murderers, I believe that at that point we've had this kind of sanctions, so that maybe some of the murders that have arisen would be prevented. So, despite the charges you have on parole, I believe that in voting day, you might even support this proposal that child murderers and pregnant killers don't have the possibility of parole. (Vojislav Seselj: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-14-0.u54136	Thank you, Minister Kuburović. Dr. Vojislav Seselj is entitled to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-14-0.u54137	You reminded me of another problem that is very difficult and serious. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia since 1 March 1992 changed the death penalty, i.e. the death penalty was replaced by 40 years in prison. So, what happened then? At some session of the Supreme Court, was it a session of all judges, as it was called at the time, they decided, you might think, they decided that even for the crimes committed before the law was passed, they could impose a sentence of 40 years in prison, if the death penalty was previously scheduled. This can't be done for an average law student, a second-year student who passed criminal law, because the exchange for a death sentence was 20 years in prison and prescribed in a previous law, and there can be no retroactive application of the Criminal Code. Today, there are people who are sentenced to 40 years in prison for crimes committed in the 1990s. This cannot, you must do so urgently by changing either the law or the intervention of the President of the Republic who has a corrective role in the field of justice, by leaving him with the possibility of giving parole. Remember Wolf Manojlovich. He was sentenced to death and then waited for the execution of the death penalty. It's been 20 years and they wouldn't let him go. I think Tomislav Nikolic only pardoned him at the age of 27, and he had to be released by law when he turned 20, because it was a replacement, prescribed by law, for the death penalty. That, I think, as minister of justice, should be dealt with urgently within your own ingenuity. You can't order the courts, but you can initiate the proper regulation.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-14-0.u54138	Thank you, Professor. A seam. We're moving on with our work. The word is Natasa Mihailović Vacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-14-0.u54139	Thank you, Chairman. Fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, representatives of the Ministry of Justice, the question that we are talking about today in this House is the issue of all of us and the issue that goes beyond politics itself. After nearly 160,000 people have not been able to submit an initiative two years later, the so-called so-called initiative is ahead of us. "Tian's Law" which aims to impose a life sentence. This is our debt to Tiana and to the other children and other victims of monstrous acts and crimes, but also to those who may, unfortunately, still be the next victim. Every bloody pyjamas shocks us and arouses the desire to punish the most severely, so this topic that we're talking about today is extremely difficult and painful and is causing a huge alarm to all of us. Mr. Seselj, will you listen or will you step outside? (Vojislav Seselj: I will neither listen to you nor go out.) Then just calm down. (Vojislav Seselj: I am very calm, but I have a very important discussion with my colleague. )
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-14-0.u54140	Keep talking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-14-0.u54141	So, this topic that we're talking about today is extremely important, and because of the way Mr. Seselj talked about it, I believed that this was a real topic that he and how, as an extremely professional and prominent lawyer, he had something to say, so I'm confused that he didn't want to listen to other colleagues very carefully. So this topic is extremely complex and on a number of levels, it causes re-examinations, reflections and dilemmas. At the same time, it is very important to seriously examine how society must deal with this problem, and it is about preventing the most serious crimes and crimes. Although the death penalty in Serbian law was abolished nearly two decades ago and European law is strictly prohibited, demands for her return to Criminal Law are rarely heard. As a second solution for those who have committed the most serious crimes, the public sees life imprisonment. A criminal code in Serbia provides for 40 years as the most severe punishment. So today, we're just one step away from putting a life sentence in prison. This already requires serious review in itself and opens up many questions that we as a society would have to seriously deal with by looking at them from as many angles and perspectives as possible. For me, the personal point is that stricter criminal policy is not enough in itself, because it comes after the event. The security of citizens and society is ensured by the prevention of all areas of social life. It is necessary for the state to really do everything on the prevention of gross and cruel misdeeds and crimes, especially children, pregnant women and old and powerless persons, in order to ensure the safety of children, above all but all citizens. I think it is important that we provide a broad consensus on this matter of society, which I have no doubt, but I am therefore extremely sorry that there has been no full agreement of the professional public, especially in the part relating to parole. Through the discussion of the proposed changes, we are also talking today about the need for society to protect against future worst crimes against children, above all, with full awareness that it can be permanently prevented if we do not seriously consider all possible prevention measures, including for the sake of example, and the establishment of a register of pedophile, as well as increased work on support and assistance to potential executions, in order to prevent serious crimes and ruthless events. Here today we are talking, if you will, about the intention of Serbia being a safe place to live. I just want to briefly remind myself of the road that Igor Juric's initiative, the "Tijana Juric Foundation", went to this day. So, action to introduce life imprisonment for child killers began in March 2017. It is also proposed to explain examples of the most serious crimes imposed in life imprisonment for the murder and rape of a child up to 14 years old, a minor up to 18 and a pregnant woman. Nearly 160,000 Serbian citizens supported the initiative, numerous public figures, prominent prosecutors, judges and lawyers, as well. The action was also supported by Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic, who announced that the ministry of justice would make changes to the law in line with the initiative. A year later, at the end of 2018, the minister formed a task force to amend and supplement the Criminal Code, the creators of the law gathered in February, including the justice minister and the police minister and prosecutors and lawyers. Then the Ministry of Justice sent an official proposal to amend the Criminal Code. And here's today's bill of law before us, and we're practically just one more step away from adopting it. In my presentation, I will present a slightly unusual angle of observation both on the proposed changes and on the problems we face, risking not being understood, or misread, since today we are discussing this extremely difficult and sensitive subject. But what was once was forever. That applies to every man. We cannot bring the victims back to life, but on behalf of their victims, we are obliged to prevent, as far as possible, some new situations that will bring with us victims like Tiana. After tragic events, no repairs. After the horrors of the children, he can only shut up. As a National MP, I take the responsibility to open up here today some questions and personal reflections, if you will, on this painful, difficult and disturbing subject, issues that personally raise dilemmas and many questions on a number of levels, so, if you will, and concern, above all, and issues concerning the possibility of parole of the perpetrators of the most difficult works. I understand the question of life's punishment, and I want to say it acceptable, and as the Minister said earlier today, it has both symbolic significance and more adequate expressions of the weight of the work done. We are witnessing a number of crimes, unfortunately. The question arises whether society is safe enough that all those who are subject to sanctions in any period of time with the right of pardon will be converted enough not to repeat the act? Let's look at this question through an example of persons under the age of 21, who are being treated by this law and for which the possibility of parole, namely the inability to sentence life in prison. What are we going to do, assume hypothetically, that such a person under the age of 21 commits a crime with a fatal outcome against children, pregnant women, old or powerless persons? Is his victim the same as the victim committed by a person over the age of 21? So here we go back to the unsub's question, not the victim's question, and I remind you, we have a victim. We hope that the perpetrator under the age of 21 will be less of a danger to society than the elderly, over the age of 21. If we are sure that we have taken and taken all measures to heal a person during the duration of the prison sentence and prepare for life on the loose of a perpetrator under the age of 21, why do we now know that this same procedure will not give the desired type of answer for the perpetrator over the age of 21? As we give hope on one side, the question arises – why not give it to the other? Leaving any convicted without hope and considering the question that one day with his behaviour may deserve parole is inhumane, Mr. Seselj said inhumanely, according to documents from various European conventions. So, inhuman or inhumane from the aspect of human rights and freedom. And I want to say that this is one of the main arguments of that section of the expert public that contests the proposed changes. I wonder if we can even rule out hope from life and believe that things can be different and better? Can hope and struggle be in vain? That's what I'm wondering when I'm thinking about the victims, but also when I'm thinking about the perpetrators. The perpetrators are also victims of something beyond common sense, and there is no dilemma. You'll probably say now that hope, as well as mercy, has been taken from the victims. And we shall all ask ourselves: Is hope also necessary for the executioner? Hope is, my belief is, it takes all of us to apply this law to reduce the number of perpetrators, but I'm afraid, hope will be unleashed unless all prevention measures are taken against any member of society that shows socially unacceptable behavior, which can ultimately have a crime with a fatal outcome committed against a child, a pregnant woman, an old or powerless person. Then my thinking goes further that in most cases the perpetrator of this monstrous and ferocious crime at some point in his life or even by the birth of a deprived capacity of humanity, and it is very likely that even during the duration of the prison sentence, he will lose his capacity to change. I wonder why I should deny him the hope that, at some point, he wishes, if nothing, to truly repent or to believe that change is in the ultimate line and possible? That doesn't mean letting go of parole. It just means that what we call hope and belief that something is possible, like I said and say again, so there's no confusion, in most cases the perpetrators of such monstrous crimes are not possible, but I'm just wondering, I'm asking you, I'm asking myself. Then it opens up another question. So I'm saying that the topic that we're talking about today is extremely complex and opens up a series of issues and dilemmas and thinking on a number of levels. That's why it's important for me to open them here because this law will depend on what we're going to do in the future to prevent and prevent all possible cases in the future. So that opens up a new issue in terms of prevention – do we recognize such cases that at the beginning of their lives show negative or socially unacceptable behavior? Do the mental health institutions recognize them as potential perpetrators of any crime and what kind of response does society give to a detected possible problem that in most cases emerges at some point, as I said? Serbia is a signator of the European Convention on Human Rights. The practice of the European Court is clear. So, in several cases, she has already pleaded and said that parole is something that must exist and that it is not possible, especially for such strict prison sentences, to end the possibility and hope, even if he was the greatest criminal and the greatest crime. Hope is the one that must not be abolished by any human being. Dear colleagues and minister, this is what Radomir Ilic, State Secretary of Justice said. I was wondering if because of the sensitivity of the subject and the piety towards the victims, I would say this sentence at all today, but I decided to open up some questions so that we could think together about this extremely important issue and the issues in this debate that we would have to deal with as a society, because as MPs, in the extreme line, we also represent those who are at the service and maintenance of punishment. In addition to these proposed changes that will take place, I expect and believe that society will be at such a stage of institution development and that it will recognise the need to build mechanisms of protection against the possible actions of such horrors, and thus eliminating the possibility of victims of these twisted and inhuman moves and needs, especially children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-14-0.u54142	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go, colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-14-0.u54143	I thank you, Chairman. The Honorable Minister with his associates, at the very beginning, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, will state the position that will be absolutely accurate and clear, which is that in the voting day we will support this set of laws in the area of the judiciary that you represent today and that we will vote for it. I, as an authorised representative of the SPS, will, in order, as the chronological laws, or proposals of the law, comment on each of these draft laws. I hope that you will take some suggestions, which I will make when making these comments, and in this sense we have submitted several amendments, which I believe, in a qualitative sense, will improve the content of the proposed laws. As for the amendment and addition of the Criminal Code, Your Honor, I would like to share your opinion and point out that the Ministry of Justice has taken one position that should in no case be ignored. On the contrary, it should be accepted, which is that the essence of the amendment of this law is that there is legal certainty that every criminal offence, regardless of the criminal offence and the qualification of the crime, or action, will be punished, will be committed. What has caused great public attention, and even dilemmas, is one of, let's call them, more significant changes and additions to the Criminal Code, which is the introduction of, as one of the kinds of criminal sanctions, life imprisonment. As far as we're concerned, there's not a single dilemma about the justification of introducing this punishment, or norming into the Criminal Code. So there is absolute justification, regardless of all the polemics that are being carried out here, or were being presented or represented by the waist. What we especially respect and appreciate is the fact that you have well recognized the reasons for introducing this kind of criminal sanction. One of the key reasons is the huge support of citizens, 158,000 or close to 160,000 citizens asked for this kind of change and addition of the Criminal Code. We can't ignore it, nor can we ignore it. We bring these laws, not just these, but all the laws, in the interest of the citizens, and then that's one of the fundamental reasons why we have to go into something called a different systematization compared to the current or current normisation of criminal acts. Let's start with something that is fundamental, what is taught at law school – what is the purpose of punishment or criminal sanctions? One is prevention or prevention, the other is repression. When we talk about preventive action, then we divide it immediately in two directions, which is either a special prevention or an individual affecting the perpetrator of a crime and it is expected that, because of the very penalty, prevention implies that he will not commit crimes in the future, that he will be resocialised and become a useful member of the social community. When we talk about general prevention, let's be completely open and honest here. We do not expect that the number of perpetrators will be reduced, we do not expect that the number of crimes, especially serious crimes, will be reduced, but what is important, is that we create a different social environment, that we act on all those who even consider the possibility of committing a crime, that it is the type, the height of criminal sanctions on them, will act preventively. I must, as you are at the very beginning of your presentation, point out something that I consider imposing a life sentence on a justifiable sentence, and, of course, in that sense, I'm comparatively going to give a few sentences as a reference to parole. I will remind of 2002 when prison sentences of 40 years were imposed in the Republic of Serbia for the first time in the Republic of Serbia. I say, for the first time, and for a violent murder, for a crime committed in a reckless and cruel way, where the 15-year-old Soul Ilic appears as a victim, and where the perpetrator of the crime is 41 years old. Ilic's soul, as a victim, was a child of high school age, and she was a victim just because she was on the way to the perpetrator's crime when she returned from school. Not long thereafter, new crimes appear, too, in a cruel and reckless manner. So in 2007, he was sentenced to 40 years in prison to commit murder, and the fatal consequences after the rape of a three-year-old child. I must remind myself, although it is not quite appropriate to comment on court decisions and as a lawyer, I always avoid commenting on court decisions, which you do, which is respect and respect, but I will say that the president of the court council at the time, Sinisa Sofrenović, said that at the time of his sentence, he would have been five years old, but unfortunately, she did not welcome those five years. Does this data suggest sufficient justification for the introduction of a life sentence? Does this data indicate that indemnity and cruelty in taking criminal acts justify the inability of parole? I think, dear colleagues and you who listen to me and those who don't listen to me will accept these facts as correct. Can't a criminal have any kind of benefit, if he's committed a crime in this kind of, therefore, reckless and cruel way. The profession that points out that parole is an EU fluid in terms of application by international legal institutions, and the European Court of Human Rights is not disputed, but I also need to remind you and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia of one fact, that EU countries have in their criminal legislation or criminal law a sentence of life imprisonment, without parole, and that these are, mentioning, England, Wales, Holland, Slovakia, Bulgaria. So these are EU countries. If these countries did not allow parole for perpetrators of criminal offences, such as the most serious crimes, why would Serbia be tolerated by such perpetrators in its criminal law? Is there one single reason of classical-humanist nature, in relation to any other reason that those who disputed this? Is the parole order unconstitutional? I'm saying it's not. It would be unconstitutional if anyone were exposed to any decision by the competent authority, institution of abuse, torture, inhumane treatment. Of course, the Constitution guarantees that kind of protection and rights and freedom to everyone, but this is not about that, this is about something else -- that someone who did this crime cannot enjoy the trust of not the courts anymore, but the citizens of Serbia. Serbian citizens can no longer trust one who, least of all, has dared to commit a crime, and no less than to kill a child, to kill a burdened woman, to commit a crime, to promise to abuse the official position with a fatal consequence. In what way, regardless of how, does medical, anthropological, or otherwise determine that such a person can be resociated, that it can be repaired to that extent, and that he can become a useful member of the social community after all? How do you build trust that the same person who in his mind does not contain what is elemental, which is humanity, and this is a relationship to a man as a man, not to a being to be trampled, destroyed, or killed, that such a person will be able to be a useful member of the social community? There's no such thing as penological, criminological, or any other excuse for such a thing. Therefore, the repressive element containing criminal sanctions against such persons must be used and it must exist. Let's take an example of Macedonia. In Macedonia, we currently have 40 convicts, and if I'm not mistaken, dear minister, you correct me if I'm wrong, there are 62, 80 I apologize, I've been using data from an earlier period, so in this direction I can offer an apology to the citizens for providing incorrect information. There is accurate data, and it is true that countries that have in their criminal legislation foresee the possibility of parole and for the most serious crimes such parole almost never happened, or almost never allowed. No decision has been made to grant parole. In Macedonia, out of 40 convicts in Idrizovo prison, where a large number of Albanians, unfortunately, as perpetrators of crimes, still do not have a decision to give, or approve, parole. When it comes to life imprisonment, it exists in both Austria and Finland, and France, Germany, a large number of EU countries. So, in no way will we as a state that takes account of the interests of its citizens, which is the primary objective and course of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, be wrong in any case by introducing this type of criminal sanctions. All the dilemmas that my esteemed colleagues were for respect and respect, but there is one thing that can't be disputed in fact, which is that in this case humanity has not lagged. A life sentence from one side to 40 years in prison can be considered far more humane. The one who endured a 40-year sentence can get out of prison with 50, 60, 70 years old, and more. Is such a person willing to engage in all walks of social life and become a useful member of the social community? Do we as citizens, regardless of what we are here as lawmakers or those who look at us and who expect us to pass adequate laws, have confidence that such persons as resociated can return to society? No, I don't. There are views, which we advocate in the SPS parliamentary group, and one of the main ones is: such a person, after the execution of a long term sentence, is not prepared to return as a useful member of the social community, either because he is powerless for years, because of the mistrust of citizens to such a person, because he is unable to adapt to normal life and is therefore far more humane and more appropriate to remain on the life sentence of imprisonment in the conditions in which that sentence is maintained. Therefore, we have no problem in supporting you in the proposal to introduce a life sentence and the inability of parole for criminal offences as the most serious offenses, or crimes with the greatest degree of social danger. As for certain parts, I'm going to ask you now to comment together, the Criminal Code that I think should be reconsidered. It's about recidivists, or returnees, in the execution of a crime. In Article 55, I am talking about the motion of a member, in paragraph 1, it is proposed that if the perpetrator of a crime committed with imagination earlier was convicted of a deliberate crime, that such a circumstance should be taken as a difficult one, which is an extremely good solution, but if it has not been five years since the previous conviction or sentence was carried out. Dear Minister, one question arises and one dilemma, most of all, why for five years? Why five years and is it a relatively small period of time? Let's take five years and one day, five years and 15 days, five years and a month. Do you think that time period of five years is short? What does that mean? This means that Petar Petrovic committed a crime with imagination, it's been five years, he's committed a crime again, but it's not taken as a daunting circumstance? The question arises – why? For what? As far as we're concerned, it would be humanistic if it always existed as a difficult situation or that at least it would go a long time when it could be considered that this is no longer a difficult circumstance because of a large period of time that has passed in relation to the last anti-legal work, i.e. an act of committing a crime with imagination as a form of wine. It also applies to multiple returns, and again we have this five-year limit that I personally consider, but more from the aspect of professional approach to this problem, that this is a short period of time. In any case, I think that perhaps in this direction the law could in some way adapt that, as a difficult circumstance, it must always take into account the perpetrator of the crime, when making a subsequent decision on the execution of the crime and the criminal responsibility, regardless of when he committed the crime. What's good is that you've introduced as a criminal offence and planning a crime, the bar supports, of course, the standardization of the crime, the assault on the lawyer, and I welcome you here on behalf of the bar, and I thank you for such systematicization, given that lately we've had countless cases of assault on lawyers, unfortunately with fatal consequences. I think one of the last ones was the death of a fellow lawyer, Ognjanovic. In the other part, I would really not comment on the amendments and additions to the Criminal Code, given that it is quality proposals when it comes to the provisions of this Bill. When we refer to the provisions of the Code, i.e. the Code of Criminal Procedure, in that direction, I would not make any important comment, given that it is only a matter of complying with the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure with what must be done in the case of the application and the practical application of the Criminal Code. I also want to commend the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Act. I think it is good that this law sets out the fundamental provisions of this law relating to conflict of interest, relating to the accumulation of functions and relating to the procedure itself before the Anti-Corruption Agency. I think it is a good thing that a number of public officials who undoubtedly bear the status of public officials are exempt from the provisions that were previously present while the current law is still in force, and it is the committees of local self-government parliaments, or members of city and municipal councils that have previously fallen under the provisions, particularly the criminal provisions of this law. Now it will no longer be the case that I consider a good solution, because it is not, however, the holders of public functions that have the capacity that we have, in particular, as MPs in this House. I would also like to welcome the draft law amending and supplementing the law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, especially in the part relating to the jurisdiction of the judge to enforce criminal sanctions. When it comes to, let me call an alternative enforcement of criminal sanctions, which is that criminal sanctions are maintained in domestic conditions up to one year, for up to one year, whether they will be accompanied by electronic monitoring or not, as well as a reference to a convicted person to work outside the seat of a criminal correctional institution in which the same is located. In the end, I'll be back in just a few seconds, Mr. Arsic, let me finish, only in one sentence that when we talk about amendments and additions to the Criminal Code, life imprisonment and parole, I'm sorry that colleagues from the profession indicate that they were not represented in the expert debates. In four years if someone hadn't wanted, wanted or could have participated in professional debates, it can't be accepted. Four years is a lot. On the other hand, the discussion was also organised by the "Tijane Juric" Foundation. Why didn't any of those colleagues who were arguing about this show up at the hearings? Why is this Foundation ignored? I thank you in the end and once again point out, we will support these proposals and hope to vote them, and I suppose unanimously, because this is something of fundamental importance or vital importance for the state of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-14-0.u54144	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, George Komlenski, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-14-0.u54145	I thank you, chairman, comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen, distinguished Madam Ministers with fellow Members, distinguished colleagues, I will continue where counterpart Nedjo Jovanovic stopped, and that is one small part of the comment on the bill on preventing corruption. To be honest, I do not care whether the adoption of this law is necessary in order to bring the legal framework in line with the recommendations of the GRECO Commission, or the Council of Europe or anything else, but it is important to me because it is brought to the benefit of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The law clearly shows that a very thorough analysis of the effect of the now applicable Anti-Corruption Agency Act. It removes some of the shortcomings observed during the previous period and I have the impression that the most important few things that it significantly changes even though it does not seem so at first glance are in fact the selection process of the Director of the Agency and the introduction of a larger agency instead of the Agency's board. When it comes to the Director of the Agency, it is good that, regardless of the very good and positive results of the work of current managers of the Anti-Corruption Agency, we are always thinking about future times and even better work, that the expertise of people who compete as director of the Agency will be effectively controlled in a very good way. So, by forming a commission tasked with carrying out a test that will have the obligation to provide a full and good assessment of the expertise, knowledge and skills of the candidates, is something that will guarantee the existence of his expertise, one who is proposed as a possible candidate to the National Assembly for Elections as Director. Then, what is very important, but also an extremely large responsibility of the commission is the second part of the job it has, to assess its professional integrity to perform its function as director of the Agency. The third part, of course, is also important, concerns the Agency's plan and work programme for the period in which it is entrusted with the mandate, and these are things that are very important. If there weren't some experience that I was going to talk about a little bit later, maybe I'd argue here that it's necessary to ensure the full professionalization of a larger agency. Under this bill, larger agencies can make up people who meet the same conditions that the Agency's director and they pass through the test, by of course having to pass the professional training test, and by passing the evaluation of their professional integrity to perform the function of directors. This will bring a new quality in the Agency's work to fight corruption. Of course, there should only be taken into account that one width that can sometimes be lost by professionalising certain works in time, but that is the job of this home when it adopts a work report, that it is well followed, as well as by a ministry that has its share in the process, when it comes to assessing the work itself of the Agency, as well as the choices and directors and greater. Why did I say this was a very important assessment of professional integrity? Because unfortunately we had one ugly situation, that a member of the Anti-Corruption Agency would be prosecuted and answered, not in the way I think he was supposed to answer, but it's a matter of judicial authorities. You know, today, this man is someone who is being proposed from the street as an authorised negotiator, and otherwise by the decision of the Third Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade, Case KT 331/15, has been publicly granted a delay in pursuing Cedomir Chupic, then a member of the Anti-Corruption Agency, to avoid criminal prosecution that the people like to say and fulfil the obligations that the prosecution has imposed on him, and that the proceedings are not being conducted to counterfeit the record that has had certain negative facts on the work of the agency itself. By introducing this institute, it is clear that, not necessarily, it will prevent, but also well-prepared the possibility that someone responsible for falsifying an official document, for the abuse of an official position to meet him in some way, but that is the fact that it is the right of an authorised prosecutor and a judge who has agreed to delayed prosecution, it overrules the criminal act of unconscious work in the service and thus ends this criminal proceedings. It is something that should not happen in the future, because the responsibility of people in such functions should not be something that will ease their responsibility that has been established for them, nor give them a more favourable position than ordinary citizens, but rather, for example, should even be the abuse of functions, which are public powers obtained from this home or from citizens of the Republic of Serbia, just to make it difficult for those who need to be processed. But we are where we are and, of course, the inevitable theme is the bill of amendments and additions to the Criminal Code and, of course, the introduction of a life sentence. You know, this is a topic that the more you think about the less accurate, precise or secure answers you have. Perhaps the simplest thinking is the first thing that falls on each of us at the first moment, well, of course, that's fair, not to say that this kind of justice for some crimes should even go by the principle of the Talion law - eye for eye, tooth for tooth, but the current Constitution forbids us to introduce a death penalty, so I can't suggest it, alluding to the fact that these crimes absolutely deserve the death penalty. It is clear that both in terms of general and in terms of special prevention of the results that the imposition of a life sentence will achieve will not be enormous. It's one of my free judgments, but I agree with the fact that justice and proportionality between a crime committed and the severity of a criminal sanction that is thus pronounced. If it is even possible to seek any justice and proportionality between these crimes and those sanctions being imposed. You know, I fully support the fact that for the most serious forms of murder, rape, the promises of an powerless face, the promises of a child, committed to children, underage persons, a burdensome woman, an powerless person, can't say parole. Let us for a moment, as my Stublins say, miss what we are told from Europe and tell us that we should do and act, and they work in a completely different way. I can interpret it from two angles. A colleague, Nedjo Jovanovic, mentioned, and I think you said that there are countries in the EU, first that the vast majority of them have a life sentence, and secondly that a number of countries also do not allow parole for certain types of criminal offences. You know, when the recommendation comes to you, the European Court of Justice's decision, the EU's recommendations, then you get a little bit sick in your stomach when you get to know that you're not about the same values as those in their heads, because I, in a different way, and I can't understand that we're recommending something as good, and that they don't apply it to themselves, on the contrary, they do things that are diametrically opposite of all of that. It is interesting that such recommendations come from those countries and those countries for which we and 1999 during the bombing, and apparently after all this, were only collateral damage and collateral casualties completely irrelevant. The concern they show or force us to show it to convicts in one part of me is reasonable, but to make it a priority of whether or not someone has hope of getting out of prison, and to deny life in the most brutal way possible to a minor child. You know what? I will allow myself to suffer many criticisms after this, but I will say extremely hypocritically. I'm not even about letting those people live in prison for life. For such a death penalty, which, of course, implies absolute certainty, is the procedure carried out until the end. What doesn't need to be made a big deal, which turns out to be a little bit more when we listen to opposers putting a life sentence in prison, that it's the only punishment that can be pronounced for these crimes. We have to tell the citizens here clearly and loudly that in a court of law this decision which will be imposed, and that in addition to the prison sentences that we all talked about today in one way or another, the sentence of life is one of the possible alternatives, one of the possible penalties that can be imposed, and that is only for the most severe forms of criminal acts that you've all been talking about today, and I don't want to repeat it again for no reason, because I really think they've all remembered the crimes that have been committed. We have to take care of Serbia, we have to take care of our mentality, we have to take care of our justice, we have to keep what's good, and it's been very good and it's been very good throughout the long term, it's proven to be firm with continental law and some hints and attempts that even through these quass of humanitarian organisations, which criticise the introduction of life support, the introduction of a small door of Anglo-Saxon law that is not suitable for both Serbian tradition and our mentality, nor can they simply satisfy justice in the extreme case of justice from those who have suffered some damage from the perpetrators of the crime. It is necessary to take account and continue in that direction, of course to improve the conditions for the work of judges, to coordinate procedural laws, of course, to take particular care of the staff, today again on the agenda we have the choice of new judges, the choice of the president of courts for certain courts where circumstances have arisen that can be chosen, but even more needs to be paid attention to the education of judges, their simple education and the unification of the application of law to all citizens of Serbia, because that is a sense of justice. For this reason, the introduction of a life sentence is something that is just, I cannot say, that it will fulfill justice and that it will bring back those whose loss of life will give someone a life sentence, but at least because of the justice of the Socialist Movement, the People's Peasant Party, the United Peasant Party in the voting day will support these laws, as well as the proposal for a choice of judges. I thank you for your involvement in these laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-14-0.u54146	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mrs. Kuburovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-14-0.u54147	Thank you. I'm glad you referred to the Anti-Corruption Act and were just talking about the election procedure of the director and the introduction of the council. How significant this is, I will say, precisely based on the current practice of the Anti-Corruption Agency, that the existing system is unsustainable and that it has had shortcomings in the past. I would remind you that the first director of the Agency was in criminal proceedings precisely because of the abuse of the official position and those abuses were also related to the spending of the daily days, and there were also abuses in the purchase of a building where today the headquarters of the Anti-Corruption Agency was found to have been bought at a much higher price of buildings, that the building was bought with furniture, and when it was necessary to take over the furniture absolutely in the building, there was no, which is why they had to vacate funds from the budget reserve once again for something that had already been paid, and thus the integrity of such a person was questioned. This process of selecting the directors we have today certainly showed a shortage, because we also had a director who had been in office for several years, and after resigning only then followed the decision of the Administrative Court which found that the selection procedure of the director had a deficiency, i.e. it was illegal. This is exactly the new choice that we introduce with the directors and members of the Committee one professionalization, introduce objective criteria and allow the largest professionals to be at the Anti-Corruption Agency, or in the future Anti-Corruption Agency. I believe that the Judicial Academy, which is currently conducting a large number of competitions, which is for judges and prosecutors, and for students, where this procedure is very transparent, where you can also online follow the procedure of examining candidates, I believe that such criteria and apply in this situation, which means that no one will be able to hide in what way the candidates, which are candidates who have received the highest number of votes, will certainly be the National Assembly that will be able to finalise and select both directors and members of the council. Why is it important for members to be bigger professionals? It is precisely because they have an obligation to decide on complaints against decisions made by the Director and to prevent any shortcomings that may arise later in the conduct of long administrative procedures, to remove any possible deficiencies and to maintain these final decisions without constantly repeating the long-term procedures. I would take this opportunity and point to something Mr. Neđo Jovanovic pointed out, and it refers to a return and a deadline needed to pass in order to consider whether it is a difficult situation or not. The deadline has been prescribed for five years for reasons of provisions relating to legal rehabilitation. The largest number of crimes that are just being pronounced is a conditional conviction of criminal acts, that is, the execution of criminal acts for which the sentence of prison is imposed for up to a year, where the person has been deemed not to have been convicted for five years, so this provision would be in the balance for legal rehabilitation. That's why this was one deadline for which the Ministry of Justice was defined and we thought it could have the highest application in practice.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-14-0.u54148	Thank you. Do any of the presidents of the parliamentary groups, or representatives, want a word? (No) We're going through the list of registered speakers. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-14-0.u54149	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the fundamental theme of today's debate is, in fact, criminal laws, more specifically, tightening sanctions for the most serious crimes, from those towards children and the weakest to the crimes of war crimes and genocide. Back in ancient times, sacred books were written – who kills an innocent person, as if the whole world had been killed. Civilization of a society is measured by how and how it is dealt with by violence and violence and how and to what extent violence is put under control. Penalties, or sanctions, are actually one of the ways to combat crimes, especially serious crimes, and they certainly have effects. When it comes to the most serious crimes, the most serious crime should be the most severe punishment. In this respect, it is also necessary to understand and support this tightening, including the introduction of a life sentence. True, punishment in itself is nowhere, and I don't believe that it will give full results, that is, to deal with thugs and perpetrators of serious crimes. It is therefore essential to put violence and serious criminal acts on the agenda of society and state at all levels. In this respect, it is of utmost importance that the overall environment in which society lives is treated by violence and the perpetrators of serious crimes are treated from the position of important factors, media, certain elites. No matter what severe and harsh punishments they have for such perpetrators, if we continue to have on some media the representation of certain criminals, murderers, criminals as heroes and important figures in society, I fear that no reform of criminal laws will give us the desired results. In that regard, I think it is very dangerous and harmful for this country and society to deny proven war crimes and deny war crimes genocide. This must be difficult and may have historical consequences, but it is also extremely harmful. When you have a permanent repetition of such attitudes, especially from the position of the elite, especially political, for young generations, for young people, it has an extremely negative sound and very bad educational consequences. Today we have before us a law to prevent corruption which, by the way, is in a package of criminal laws, and we know that in fact corruption is mainly aimed at either obtaining material gain or some privilege or avoiding responsibility, and very often also avoiding penalties. In that sense, for the real effects and criminal laws and these reforms that we are doing here today will be the implementation on the ground, which means through the prevention of corruption, especially in the judicial authorities and other judicial authorities, or sanctions. Only then, in that one wide front can we have the right results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-14-0.u54150	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-14-0.u54151	The Honorable President of the Assembly, the Honorable Minister, fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, I am Milija Miletic, and I come from Svrlig. It is the most beautiful municipality in Serbia located near the town of Nis and it is the most beautiful city in Serbia. Otherwise, I was elected from the Serbian Progressive Party list, and I represent the United Peasants' Party Assembly. I, as so far, will say certain things that are important, specific to the area and region from which I come. Otherwise, I, as a folk MP and representative of the United Peasants Party, will support a set of all these laws, because we people living in the country live from the village, live in small areas, and we've always been against having someone live above children, doing some bad things over children, and don't let God take a child's life. With us, in my neighborhood, in my village, such people are a fine punishment to be under the age of 10 and a life sentence. It's best for these people to be a death penalty, because these people don't deserve to live because they're doing something that's the worst. So I'm going to support these bill proposals because I think it gives individuals the opportunity to think about what they're going to do. There are certain sanctions here that are now bigger than before, for those who are involved in the production of drugs and all other things that are very bad for our people, for our children, for our young people, in all areas of Serbia, and normally we have to put more sanctions and more penalties there. At the same time, I will support you once again, Minister, for all these bill proposals, with one good thing for those people who commit a crime, settle with the prosecution, and there is now a possibility where they will, through financial support, give certain things, some money, and now as the Ministry of Justice, you have the opportunity to provide, through projects and through competitions that you, as the Ministry of Justice, with certain resources for areas such as the Municipality of Svrlig, such as the municipality of Bela Palanka, such as Gajin Han, such as municipalities in southeastern Serbia, because we can arrange our kindergartens, and our homes of health and our local community. Once again, dear minister, I will support a set of all these laws, because I think they are necessary, and I would like to invite you to give your authority as a competent minister of justice, to get funds for those small municipalities that have competed after the Justice Ministry's competition, and I would invite you to come to Srljeg to visit the most beautiful municipality in Serbia, because we are the most beautiful. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-14-0.u54152	Thank you. The word has a letter from the Prophet of Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-14-0.u54153	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, it was quite difficult to prepare for today's session, because we had only 72 hours to deal with these really serious issues, and in some part of the serious bill proposals. We have this bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the execution of criminal sanctions, which really does not have a fundamentally so-called no amendments, but we had to discuss this because it is part of this Chapter 23 and whenever something is done under the European Union's order, it must be bad and you will hear through the amendments what we think about that law. As regards this Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the confiscation of property resulting from a criminal offence, you say that this law is in line with the 2016 Criminal Code and that it must be done in an emergency procedure, in order to prevent the occurrence of harmful consequences for state authorities. Now we just need an answer to whether these adverse consequences have occurred in the past three years? Why does he suddenly have to do an emergency procedure? The Anti-Corruption Act has no essential changes, either, except for the name. Corruption will continue to flourish, the Agency will continue to deal with whether public officials have been late for five or seven days in reporting their assets, and there is no essential fight against corruption at all. You haven't predicted what we've been telling you in years -- abuse of public functions, public resources, etc. and under political campaigns, pre-election and abuse by political parties, abuse of voters, etc. So, you haven't done this the right way, and that's certainly not good. But what's interesting here? Today we are talking about the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Code, but today we have, here, the Law on the Prevention of Corruption, which provides for a new criminal act. And what do you need this for, not putting it in this Criminal Code? So this is something that's not just in this case, I just cited this as an example, and when I talk about this law a little bit more, you'll hear more details. Law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure. We've noticed two interesting things here. First, you predicted that persons sentenced to 40 years or to life imprisonment that, without their special authority, family members could not file complaints on their behalf. It shouldn't stay that way. Indeed, it is a harsh violation and discrimination against these people, no matter what crime they have committed. To members of their family and defenders, this right should not be compromised. You also predicted he couldn't be an associate of someone who's been sentenced to 40 years or life imprisonment. This, on the one hand, could be acceptable, but, on the other hand, if we know that we have many unsolved crimes of murder or attempted murders from around 2000 and earlier, a particular case, let's say, Milorad Ulemek, where it would be very interesting and very important to shed light on certain facts, that he might get that status, that he might be able to state the truth, because it's generally known that he wasn't convicted, in fact he did, but that Nata Mesarovic in time told one truth in front of the television audience when she said - we got the verdict. The most interesting in the public is the proposal for a law on amendments to the Criminal Code. A lot of media this has been used, well, so to speak, and misused, but what is essential is that you have somehow, in fact proposed these changes, in fact, with no systematic work here again, because you, the tenth, I think, or the 11th time you've changed the Code of Criminal Procedure that was brought in 2005. Since you're the minister, this is what I think the sixth change is about, or Mr. Selakovic, but it's your authority, but it says that this is not a good basic law and that one codified criminal code should finally be passed. It's very simple, you have unemployed young lawyers, let every ministry hire me for one, just to finish a traineeship, to get a job, to see under every ministry every law, which are criminal acts, because if there are none other than the Criminal Code, then there is none. It was meant to be done in this way, not under pressure from media, public, social networks, NGOs and so on, to bring back some laws with a name. That's not good. We had Alex's law, Maria's law, now Tijana's law. You know, now we have to expect whether, God forbid, someone even more monstrous will appear who, God forbid, will commit a crime against a child or an powerless sick, old face and so on, so that we call that name a law again. It has to be done systematically, that everyone in advance knows if he's willing to commit some crime that it's already been threatened by the Criminal Code. When it comes to the introduction of a life sentence, especially where crimes against children have been committed, of course, no one in their right mind would think that such people deserve the worst possible punishments that can be imposed but, in some ways, it is holding back on talking about the bill in one serious, professional and serious political way. It's not good that you've provided for some criminal acts that won't allow parole, or the possibility of parole, if it's going to be unknown, because you actually predicted those 27 years that in two, three months are different from those two-thirds, when it comes to 40 years in prison. But you can't leave a man without that possibility, without that hope that he might still experience that parole, if not because of him, maybe he didn't deserve it because of the work he did, but he'll be there in some prison and he'll say, "I'll never get out of here and he'll get the first chance to kill a prison guard because he doesn't care, he's here, so he's here." So a man must have some bit of hope that something might happen once and happen positively in his life. You spoke here in your opening statement on the change of sentence when it comes to drugs and what did you foresee in this article 246a? Whoever holds a larger amount of drugs will be punished for three to ten years, but there is a possibility of easing below the legal minimum. So there could be 10 tons of drugs and some bribed judge and get below the legal minimum. This is not a good solution, as an increase in the legal minimum of fines is not a good one. It is not a problem in the current regulations, nor in the current Criminal Code, when it comes to the lowest punishment, the problem is in a large range of penalties. A large range of penalties for an almost identical crime implies what is happening in public, sprayed by lawyers and judges, sprayed with prosecutors, etc. And then there's someone who's going to get that minimum for the same piece, and the other one's going to get the maximum sentence, and the difference is from three to 15 years for the same crime. That was the way to look at this problem. Also, what you predicted was that a special crime was an attack on a lawyer. I remind you, Mrs Kuburovic, let's say the street cleaner was run over in Krusevec in 2017. Why isn't he, or someone, God forbid, to whom it can happen, not part of this law? Why just lawyers? Why isn't anyone doing their job meant by this law? So we think that the state should take care of the life and health of each individual of the sea, primarily, to take care of state interests, national interests, integrity, territorial integrity and sovereignty of the state, and today there is no more important thing in the state of Serbia than to prevent this false thesis that genocide happened in Srebrenica. That's why all of us MPs of the SRS have submitted an amendment, no matter who you adopt. Please adopt one of our amendments and provide for the strictest punishment. We have predicted, offered life imprisonment for anyone who publicly says that genocide occurred in Srebrenica, and that is the way, if you accept our amendments, it is a way to protect your own people and your own country from the malice that could be permanently inflicted on them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-14-0.u54154	Thank you. The word is by MP Biljana Pantic Pilja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-14-0.u54155	The President-in-Office, Mrs Kuburovic, is facing us today a set of very important judicial laws. My colleagues have already said a lot, and I will look back on only two draft laws. This is one Law on the Prevention of Corruption and the other is a Code of Criminal Code. As for the bill on preventing corruption, it is clear that this bill aims to achieve a more effective fight in preventing and combating corruption. The bill is another proof that the government, as well as Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic, is committed to fighting crime and corruption, which flourished until 2012. I expected former regime representatives to come to the session today to tell us a little bit about examples of corruption in which they have very good experience, so let's remember the honesty of Gilas, who introduced "Bus Plus", who reconstructed King Alexander's Bulevar, built a bridge on Ada, and thus emptyed the pockets of Serbian citizens, but filled his pockets and accounts with his private companies. Or, to talk about Radoslav Milojic Keni, who, while headed the Smederjevska Palanka municipality, was so limited to corruption that he devastated the municipality. How much fuel he spent on the municipalities and beer on the burden of Serbian citizens. We can also talk about the Sutanovac pasture affair, Zivkovic "Sartid", the famous Pajkic affair "Kamenice 2", "Tesla Banka", "Development Banka". They all came out full of pockets, damaged Serbian citizens. Since the operation of all these politicians and other party friends of these politicians, corruption has been here until 2012 as something natural, and therefore they are all fighting Alexander Vukic, who announced an unfavourable fight against corruption and crime. They are not fighting for the citizens of Serbia, nor for Serbia to be better than for their pockets. This bill guarantees a way to tolerate corruption, which is one of the main objectives set by this government, and for this bill I will vote in the voting day. As for the proposal to amend the Criminal Code, the problem was first that you hadn't brought these changes before, now the problem that you've come up with these changes. It doesn't seem like you can please anyone. I agree with a lot of what my colleagues said today, it is clear that the current law had a mild criminal policy which apparently had no intention of punishing and that this law was more repressive, tightening criminal policy and introducing new crimes. Let us remember one thing, and that is that the purpose of punishing justice and proportionality is between what is done and what is punished. What is a just punishment for the person who killed Tijana, who raped and killed Angelina, who raped and beaten Katarina, for the person who killed Dusica, and then raped her dead, who is the punishment for the person who killed Tamara or little Maria Jovanovic? I'm not deliberately speaking the names of the people who committed these monstrous crimes, but I'm talking about the names of innocent children. We're talking about the hope the unsub should have of a crime like this. He shouldn't have any hope, because these kids need to pass a law like this and let him think about it part of the expert public who opposes it. One who harms the powerless and physically weaker must not gain freedom. Now we all mention various conventions of human rights, and no one is talking about the human rights of these children. What about the U.S. being led as a cradle of human rights that has human punishment? Now the problem is that for the most serious crimes there is no parole. Already mentioned by colleagues in the UK, a large country in Great Britain does not have the possibility of parole for acts prescribed for life imprisonment. Why do we in Serbia need to be greater Europeans and greater respect for human rights? There's talk of humanity. What humanity? The one he didn't have for the victim, but in a cruel and reckless manner, did they commit crimes? We used to have a principle of eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth, so we had a death sentence and now we're civilizationally a little out of it, so the proposed prescribed sentence of life without parole I think it should be a punishment that might be the perpetrators of criminal acts to stop them from committing these crimes. Nearly 159,000 citizens have submitted a national petition to pass such a bill and I think we should listen to the citizens and vote this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-14-0.u54156	Thank you. National MP Jelena Vujic Obradovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-14-0.u54157	The chairman, respected Serbian citizens, respected minister with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, "Tian's Law" - this is our debt to Tijana and our children and families of children who are victims of the most serious crimes, monstrous crimes. "Tian's Law" is in fact the need of society, the need of the Republic of Serbia to protect all children from offenders, murderers and rapists. As a MP and all my fellow MPs, we are certainly representatives of all citizens of Serbia, but I cannot see any excuse for not imposing a life sentence for the most serious perpetrators of the crimes. The MPs of Unity Serbia, Dragna Markovica Palma, will support all proposed legislative proposals. We will therefore support the amendments and additions of the Criminal Code, amendments and additions to the Code of Criminal Procedure, as well as amendments and additions to the Law on the confiscation of property arising from the criminal offence, as well as the Law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, as well as proposals submitted by the High Council of the Judiciary. So, it's about the human resources, the choice of the president of the courts and the judges who were first elected as judges, certainly respecting the profession. We have discussed these proposals on the Justice Committee, so the JS parliamentary group will also support all proposals of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. "Tian's Law" or amendments and additions to the Code of Criminal Procedure, the strictest criminal policy for those who have committed crimes, or life imprisonment for child killers without the possibility of parole. Often a question arises, and for days in the media, the question is whether the introduction of life imprisonment is humane. It's not human, but if we take into account the height of the crime and the severity of the crime committed by the perpetrator, I don't think there's any excuse for children who have suffered this kind of crime, as well as for their families, and there's no, say, high enough punishment to make up for their victim or child. Unique Serbia, Dragan Markovica Palma, will support "Tijana's Law". We will certainly vote for all amendments to the Code, because a large number of children and young people have recently disappeared. Unique Serbia is fighting for a stable and safe family and for the safety of children, so this way I want to appeal to all citizens of Serbia as well that we must as a society raise moral values, above all, and leave no minimum justification for the crime done to the perpetrators. Also, the question arises when it comes to court practice why have they brought different criminal sanctions so far? The judiciary agreed in one, which is that there was a mild criminal policy. I would not continue to argue on, to say, representatives of various NGOs or representatives of citizens who opposed the adoption of these amendments and these members of the amendments relating to "Tian's Law", because we believe that there is no such justification and that in four years they were absolutely able to attend all working groups and bodies and give their opinion, and not now to oppose, because certainly someone had to be the initiator. It is the "Tijana Juric" Foundation. Tijana Juric's father is the parent of the victim of just one crime committed and his proposal, the initiative was supported by 158,000 citizens, five times more than is necessary for this proposal to be found in the procedure in the National Assembly. However, a second question arises, which is whether institutions relating to the mental health of people can also identify and prevent perpetrators of crimes in advance. He believes that as an MP, as a lawyer, it is a very big problem, because it is long to wait and if it is sometimes recognized in behavior and characteristics, even in some reports that someone commits a criminal act to be either sanctioned or placed in a particular institution for treatment, so I find it devastating in the execution of criminal acts. When it comes to parole for the perpetrators of the most serious crimes, I absolutely believe that after so many years, to take into account 20 to 30 years, the perpetrator of such a crime simply cannot socialise himself and return to the normal course of society and the question is, once he has committed such a crime, it is true that by maintaining his sentence in some way he did his time and did his time, but the question is whether such a person would commit a crime again, and therefore I believe that the most serious crimes should be imposed for life. On the agenda, we also have amendments to the draft laws on the prevention of corruption, as well as amendments and additions to the Law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions and the confiscation of property arising from the crime. I believe that this is the mandated proposal of the Committee on Justice and our colleague from the Single Serbia Parliamentary Group, Petar Petrovic, has explained that we will support all these drafts of the law. We've been doing this on the Justice Committee and we've been considering it, so I find it absolutely justified. There was also a polemic of colleagues why we bring these laws into continuity. It's just, for years, it's been standing in the status quo. Dear Minister, you absolutely have the support of the Single Serbia parliamentary group, because I believe that something that has been neglected for years or, for example, abolished, added, you have dared to these judicial reforms. Whether someone liked it or not, but really everything you do is for the benefit of the citizens of Serbia, for the benefit of our children. You have now announced that there will be amendments and additions to the Law on Executors when it comes to debt for municipal services, that it is not sufficient height to take away someone’s immovable property or roof over their heads, so it is an honor. We also expect the law to enter the congregation procedure. You absolutely have support for all these laws of the Single Serbia parliamentary group, which will support all these laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-14-0.u54158	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Vera Paunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-14-0.u54159	The President-in-Office, the respected minister and guests, the honourable MPs, is a criminal right aimed at protecting the most important values and the welfare of a society. As such, it must monitor phenomena in society and be so adjusted that it also performs the function of suppressing criminal acts, but also to act preventively, to send a message to potential perpetrators of criminal acts with justice, not to try to do them. As is known, our country, following European trends, has long abolished the death penalty as the most severe sanction for the most serious crimes. It was replaced by the introduction of opportunities for a greater legal maximum prison sentence of 20, and then 30 and 40 years. Since the introduction of these changes, however, it has been almost two decades and more. Practice has shown that some perpetrators, even after decades of imprisonment, do not cease to have any effect immediately after serving the sentence of another earlier crime, i.e. that it is fully associate individuals whom neither criminal nor moral nor criminal nor legal nor legal nor judicial nor legal norms have any adequate response to such cases. I believe that these very changes and additions to several law laws in the area of criminal law, there is a more adequate opportunity for the judicial system to cope with various forms of criminal acts and social pathological phenomena in society. Certainly the central place in today's package of proposed solutions has amendments and additions to the Criminal Code. They open up the possibility that in the event of a certain number of gravest crimes, the perpetrators may also be sentenced to life imprisonment. There have already been a lot of words about this, and numerous debates have been held both among MPs of the legal profession and among ordinary citizens. I think the right intentions are to introduce life in prison for the most serious forms of crimes against children who, as a result, had a fatal consequence. However, we are all witnessing that, besides children, they are as the most vulnerable social group lately, and old faces are increasingly victims of the most brutal crimes committed by the most ground-breaking motives, and the saddest thing is that children's violence against their parents. As we believe there is no excuse for the monstrosity of crimes against children and that perpetrators of such acts should be permanently released from society and suffer for all crimes for the rest of their lives, we also believe that the same principles should be adopted when it comes to old and powerless persons who have not earned it in their late years of life. In this regard, the PUPS parliamentary group has submitted several amendments to which the text of the proposed amendments would be complemented in this direction and we expect that, if they are not already adopted, these ideas will be considered in some subsequent period. On the other hand, I think that by introducing a life sentence, it was done in one calculated way that it did not go into one excessive repression by introducing it in too many criminal acts, and that the rule was introduced that it could not be given if there was a basis for the release from punishment or for the mitigation of it. In addition to this crucial shift in certain crimes, the penalties for, I would especially point out, those crimes relating to intoxicating drugs, because I believe that in the fight against this monster, which destroys human lives, are allowed absolutely all legitimate means, and thus significantly more severe punishment of the perpetrator in connection with this criminal act. Stronger punishment is also foreseen in cases of multiple returns, and I think it is also one solution that is in place, because if a single crime can always be found even if a verbal excuse is found, when it is repeated repeatedly, there is no excuse anymore, and such individuals must be removed from society for a long period of time. Dear MPs, respected Serbian citizens, the PUPS parliamentary group believes that legal solutions are proposed in the interest of protection on one side of the most vulnerable social groups, and on the other, justice and freedom of all of us citizens and will therefore give their support in the day of voting for the adoption of all the laws under this set of laws. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-14-0.u54160	The word is from Ambassador Branimir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-14-0.u54161	The Honorable President of the Assembly, a respected minister, representatives of the government, co-workers and colleagues, amendments and additions to the Criminal Code, which caused the public's greatest attention, actually refers to those crimes, the most serious crimes for which the prison has now been scheduled for life, and for which 30 to 40 years has been foreseen so far. Every crime that shocks the public with its cruelty is always such a reaction that we often wonder if the maximum sentence of 40 years is strict enough. We know that the Justice Ministry working group considered four years ago the possibility of a life sentence and indeed the views of the expert public and the violent reactions in those who were in favour of and against such a decision were shared. Unfortunately, several brutal murders have occurred in the past few years, primarily children, helpless persons and women. That is how the initiative, which officially supported 160,000 Serbian citizens, came into force for life in prison. In almost all European countries, a life sentence has been prescribed and has been introduced mainly as a substitute for the death penalty that has been removed from all criminal laws of the countries that are members of the Council of Europe. The degree of repressivity of criminal sanctions can be different. He can go from court notice to death. The most controversy and the most debate was about the death penalty that was lifted in our home 17 years ago and replaced by a maximum prison sentence of 40 years. This amendment and the addition of the law now implies a life sentence and it should aim to achieve justice and proportionality between the crime and the severity of criminal sanctions. I'll give two examples, and I'll say for the first example that the longest prison sentence in Spain in 1972 was sentenced to 384,912 years in prison for failing to deliver 40,000 letters. The second, too, is a drastic example coming from the United States, where James Holmes of Aurora was sentenced to 12 life sentences and 3,318 years in prison, without parole, because in 2012, he killed 12 people and wounded 70 people in a movie show in 2012. The judge who gave the verdict said, quote: “The accused did not deserve pity. The court intended that the defendant would never go free again and into society." I have cited these examples for showing that our society should not show tolerance to the perpetrators of the most serious criminal offences, but I do not view life imprisonment as a retribution only, it should also have the purpose of prevention, that is, the very fact that there is a life imprisonment in our legislation should deter a potential perpetrator from carrying out a certain act. Also, I think this kind of punishment strengthens citizens' trust in the legal order. If we compare the practice of other countries, we will see that some legislation is quite rigorous, such as the case in Canada where a life sentence of prison can even be imposed for traffic. On the other hand, the mildest legislation is in Norway and I will state the case where Anders Brayvik was sentenced to 21 years in prison, although he killed 77 people. Our country is a signator of the Convention on Human Rights and it is good that we have followed the practice of the European Court of Justice and that there is the possibility of parole for convicts who are sentenced to life imprisonment, of course in those cases where it is prescribed by law. I shall state that this is not an obligation, but only a possibility, or any convict sentenced to life imprisonment, has the possibility to make a request after 27 years, and it is in court to decide whether or not to accept the application. And there are few countries that have prescribed life imprisonment without parole and parole, and that is only five countries in Europe. It's Wells, Holland, Slovakia, Bulgaria and England. Article 344 of the proposed law also implies stricter penalties for wrongdoers at sporting events. As a big sports fan, I have to look back on this. For decades, the security situation has deteriorated in our stadiums and halls. And that's why I'm justifying a stricter criminal policy against wrongdoers at sporting events. The stands are a place for fans, not hooligans, and that's why we have to deal with hooligans. The athletes best represent our country in the world, and that's why we have to create conditions for sports events to run without incidents. Often, after important sports events, more talk about incidents and incidents, not about the result or the game itself. As an example, I'm going to list the major football and basketball derbys, and lately we've seen the finals of the ABA league talk about that, which has only damaged the reputations of our home basketball. It is also on the agenda of the Anti-Corruption Act, and I believe that there is a need to specify a number of provisions and to clarify, which concerns the current law, which concerns the Anti-Corruption Agency and the future Anti-Corruption Agency. I think it is important that we establish an institutional framework and that such a system delivers long-term results in curbing corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-14-0.u54162	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's MP Mirjana Dragas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-14-0.u54163	Thank you. Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, Madam Minister, MPs, in a set of first-reading laws, I find it extremely important to consider a bill on amendments and additions to the Criminal Code, and I would like to say a few sentences on the proposal. All the bill proposals from this set were discussed by SPS MP Nedjo Jovanovic and he confirmed the positive attitude of our parliamentary group towards all proposed laws in this set. However, when it comes to this law itself, I simply feel the need to join in a certain way a discussion that is already in the course of today in some way exposed here, but at the same time to say some personal relationship to this great, otherwise social problem and the importance of this law itself. There has been no death penalty in our judicial system for the most serious crimes. With this solution, there was one logic in harmonising our law with the widespread European regulation, as well as in humanising repressive measures. In a certain way, we can understand one such tendency and one such democratisation and relaxation of the justice system itself. Only a small number of countries have kept the death penalty in Europe. It was replaced by a long-term time sentence, usually 30 to 40 years old, which is also applied to us. In life, however, we also face various crimes that are extreme in their cruelty that lead to death in the most brutal way. The most problematic thing is when violence is committed against weak and unprotected persons who alone could not defend themselves from the violent. It's children, underage faces, pregnant women, powerless faces. I point out once again, although it has already been said here, that the "Tijana Juric" Foundation has submitted an initiative to the National Assembly on 9 November 2017 to amend and supplement the Criminal Law, which has already supported close to 160,000 people by its signatures. This number suggests that citizens were largely dissatisfied with the Criminal Law, the level of punishment imposed for the most severe crimes committed on the powerless, and the outcome was fatal. It must also be borne in mind that even in 2015, a permanent professional group has been formed at the Ministry of Justice to discuss the introduction of a life sentence that would replace the now most difficult valid prison sentence of 30 to 40 years. On the occasion of this proposal, it is known that to a large extent the professional public, the democratic public, appeared different opinions that were against this most difficult repressive measure. Experts, like many others, saw inhumanity against the perpetrators of violence and the killings of children, powerless and weaker than them, but the citizens were appalled by the execution of the most serious crimes, the cruel killings of the weak, and especially if they were committed in return. The question has been raised: how do you protect children, how do you protect pregnant women and the weak, that is to say, deter the violence? The best answer to this measure is actually proposed changes. The sentence of life in prison should be completely replaced by the most severe punishment in existence, for the grave murder, rape, the promise of a helpless face, and the promise of a child. I agree with that, because from where did the right of a bully to commit the most brutal violence of him who tormented the weak, he lived up to him and finally killed him without being adequately punished, to expect understanding or compassion. The purpose of the punishment should be to achieve justice and proportionality between the work done and the severity of the punishment, but it must also have the purpose of deterring the execution of the most serious crimes, while still maintaining a cautious, human relationship. However, it must also express the state's position, which must be clear, precise and quite warning, but in any case, to be in line with the processes that take place in society, as well as in the end, with the opinion of the public and citizens who are intimidated by the most serious crimes. Given the gravity of this sentence, as well as its exceptionalness, some of its limitations are foreseen, and these are only the most severe crimes, but they do not have to be pronounced to the persons under the age of 21, as the law predicted. In fact, here in the proposed law, it is predicted that for a short time the perpetrator of the worst crime under the age of 21 does not have to impose this criminal act. The weight of the crime is the worst, the most brutal, the murdered face had no chance of hope, no chance of life. The bill had in mind that the relationship with younger people must be milder in the belief that it was a young person who could pass the resociation and with the hope that he could find himself on a good path, living in freedom. I can understand that. I can also understand that a young man can change, that he can have a future, and that's why he's got a chance, but I wonder why he didn't have a victim's chance, and is that consistent with the weight of a misdemeanor? Then, when it comes to measures that cannot be imposed on life imprisonment, the bill stipulates that it can be envisaged for cases of serious crime, and where there is a legal framework for the mitigation or release, which suggests a more flexible relationship, one approach where there is a possibility of mitigation, this most difficult measure will not be applied. It is, as the law predicted, overstepping the bounds of the necessary defence in an attempt, essential reduced accountability, voluntary withdrawal, etc. Of course, with this in mind, a different conditional leave is envisaged for applying a life sentence, which has been slightly increased compared to the previously envisaged measure, not something drastic, but it has been increased, and it has been somewhat alerted. With a new measure of life imprisonment, a new institute has been introduced, which is the possibility of recalling, or parole, and can be seen in some way by easing this most difficult measure. Why am I stressing this? In my opinion, there is still, on condition, a pardon, a possibility of compassion or a possibility of understanding, and a parole after some years spent in prison gives a new chance. For the pardons that were killed, there was no mercy in the execution of the crime, and what must be the man who attacks the most innocent and weak of himself? So I would say, I support the amendment and the addition of the law, I advocate in any case a society that protects the innocent and the weak, especially the children. Children in each segment in a criminal justice system must have the highest form of legal protection in each respect. When society shows enhanced forms of violence or aggression, when they occur, offenders must be severely punished because it is a good form and deterrence from violence, or prevention, but at the same time also a repression that points to a new legal framework in the country. We certainly strive to make our system the best we can, to contain crime and violence and to make life here as safe as possible. This bill and the proposed set of laws in this package go towards achieving a stronger judicial system that ensures greater security for citizens in the country and ensures compliance of our laws with EU laws, but certainly respecting all the phenomena that occur in society and working in terms of protecting citizens and ensuring better life. That is why I support these measures proposed, as well as all proposed legal laws in this set. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-14-0.u54164	The last speaker for today is Jahja Fehratovic. Since we haven't extended our work, this will end today's debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-14-0.u54165	Thank you. The President-in-Office, respected colleagues and colleagues, as has already been said many times today, Tijana's law or amendments and additions to the Criminal Code are one of the most important things this assembly council has before it and I don't think there's a single MP who doesn't support such changes and additions, and you've also heard that the MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party will certainly support the amendments and additions of this law. Also, on the agenda is the Anti-Corruption Agency Act. On this discussion I was encouraged by the minister herself when she spoke today that statistics, that analysis of trials, judgments in our courts over 50%, seemed to me, were conditional convictions, etc. I think that we are in a dilemma, at least when it comes to abolishing the responsibility of the Anti-Corruption Agency of local authorities, because, basically, at the local site, there is the greatest amount of corruption of the prosecution and the judiciary that leads to certain local officials exhausting city, municipal budgets for years, and to be subject to parole or almost not condemned. For example, we have such cases very much in Tutina and Sjenica, even today there are some criminal reports that stand in prosecutions against many serious local authorities. One of the good mechanisms was this very part of the Anti-Corruption Agency, that somehow at least they forced these local authorities to respond to the courts and to have some kind of fear and conscience that if they continued so brutally that they were using local budgets that there would still be some kind of justice and condemnation of what they were doing. Unfortunately, our courts and prosecutors have not been deprived of this influence, and so I repeat that corruption seems to me, at the local level, even more present and, in my opinion, that this should have been left to exist as a special provision, although it may have complicated the work of the Anti-Corruption Agency. Also, all other measures given as important in raising criminal responsibility and prevention are very good, very important and contribute to making our system more orderly. It is very important that all these legal solutions be implemented essentially. I'm saying this from personal experience, because several times we've had the opportunity to see that legal solutions are actually legal on paper, and that much depends on the judge, on the prosecutor who wants to implement that legal decision in one way or another, or simply ignore it. Once again, indeed, the appeal has been very much done by the Justice Ministry, but to raise more attention to prosecutors and courts in smaller areas, local environments, especially when it comes to corruption, crime and other criminal elements. In my opinion, it may be bad that local authorities or authorities are not being treated by these new powers of the Anti-Corruption Agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-14-0.u54166	Thank you. This discussion ends today's work and continues tomorrow at 10:00 p.m. Thank you.
