ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-19-0.u61030	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the 18th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 86 MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please Members of Parliament to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 90 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that at least 84 MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Do any of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wish to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287? Rules of Procedure? The word has the People's Messenger Alexander Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-19-0.u61031	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. First of all, very often the topic is media representation and the state of the media in Serbia. Of course, when we talk about it, we must first of all keep in mind RTS, so, public service whatever it means, which is directly financed from Serbia's budget and by huge money, and has a supervisory board, i.e. The board of directors who make up some non-partisan personalities, self-called experts, people who absolutely no one has chosen, although the most normal situation would be to be chosen by the National Assembly, when the state of Serbia is already funding RTS. For this RTS, and I think it is scandalous, it is very often a topic of whether some imaginary non-existent parties will boycott the next parliamentary elections or not, so who has said so, and some artificial tension on this matter is being produced in public, and it is not at all the subject that the largest opposition party in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia and the second largest in the Serbian parliament has gathered more than 100,000 signatures of Serbian citizens to abolish the public enforcement institutions. So, it is scandalous that RTS deals with completely irrelevant political actors in Serbia and certain performances that have absolutely no meaning, and it is not news that more than 100,000 Serbian citizens want the public enforcement institution to be abolished, to do something about the execution of debt, on debts in Serbia. By the way, first of all, I don't think those people who stand up for it and signed that petition are being respected. Is that a normal state of the media? This would raise the issue to the government of the Republic of Serbia, given that they are dealing with reports from various NGOs calling for the state of the media to be improved by some even NGOs who, for the same table, are often gathering representatives of the government and the pro-Western opposition. Here's a concrete example, that RTS does not respect Serbian citizens. Two weeks ago, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, we had here Mr. Ivica Dacic, who told us about, that now that more and more countries are withdrawing recognition of Kosovo, that this is really in favour of our position around KIM, and then we saw that a reporter for the German parliament for Serbia has arrived in Belgrade, Peter Bajer, and publicly said, for who knows which time, the basic condition for the continuation of Serbia's accession negotiations is Kosovo's recognition, so Serbia should recognise Kosovo, and in return so on. The Republic of Kosovo will recognise Serbia. That's the contract the EU is offering us. Given that the continuation of our Eurointegration is in major cohesion with the activities of Serbian diplomacy, above all, I am talking about these 15 countries that have withdrawn recognition of Kosovo's independence, I think it is high time that the National Assembly, and especially the government in Serbia, identify whether it is committed to Serbia's EU membership, so Kosovo's recognition does not bother it or we want to do everything we can to keep Kosovo under our control, Kosovo in Serbia, and then we have nothing left to look for in the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-19-0.u61032	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Milorad Mijatovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-19-0.u61033	Dear Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I ask the question of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Ms. Ani Brnabic, and as regards youth work actions, a shortened ORA, as a specific form of voluntary work that has tradition and generally recognised results. I should not stress that New Belgrade, which is close to us, has just been built by work actions, with youthful work actions. I don't need to emphasize highways, I mean the highway "Brothership and Unity", and the railways, here, I'll mention the Brcko-Banovici railway. The need for voluntary work continues to exist and we have simply abandoned youth’s work and even voluntary work entirely. It became visible when we had catastrophic floods in 2014. Then you saw a great enthusiasm for Serbian citizens, who were willing to help defend the cities of Sremska Mitrovica, Sabac, no one pushed these people to do so, they voluntarily left their cars to help and help their country. However, the area of voluntary work is not sufficiently regulated. The area is governed by many laws, mentioning only the Law on Volunteering, the laws on associations of citizens, and they have some voluntary actions, trade unions, etc. We simply think that anything can be done by order. But the enthusiasm of citizens continues to exist. I received a delegation a few days ago from a young man of work, people, truth, in years, but I must tell you, a young spirit, ready to pass their experiences on to new generations. Just to point out, despite all the legal obstacles, the difficulties and all that is happening, work actions in our country are being maintained. I will mention King 2014, 2015, 2016, where young people and veterans voluntarily solved the problems of the aftermath of the flood, then the noise of the naked. I'll quote the commander of this action, Mrs. Milica Vostic, who said, "Let's plant a tree to change the world." You know, a lot of people said, and even John Kennedy said -- don't wonder what the state has done for you, but you're wondering what you've done for your country. You know, it's not patriotism just to say, "I love Serbia," patriotism is also to plant a tree, to arrange a place where you live, to arrange a stream, to arrange a river by which you bathe, it's patriotism where you show a particular part of what you do for your country. I would also mention the Youth Work Action "Ribaric" by Novi Pazar, which was held in 2019. I must stress that it was really impressive, 140 participants where there were 100 young and 40 veterans. They arranged the shores of Lake Gazivod, and they also cleared up the archaeological sites. The government of the Republic of Serbia in 2014, after the catastrophic floods, has reached one conclusion, I stress, was then President Aleksandar Vukic, to carry out an analysis and preparation of proposals to improve the voluntary engagement of citizens in emergency situations, but also in all other situations. My question to Mrs. Ani Brnabic is this – has the Government of the Republic of Serbia prepared a draft law on voluntary work, as a specific form of voluntary work, following an analysis of the state of voluntary involvement of citizens in general and public interest? Two, I stress that the Social Democratic Party and veterans of youth work are ready to assist and participate in the drafting of this law in public debates, as well as in public hearings in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-19-0.u61034	Thank you. The People's Messenger George Komlensky has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-19-0.u61035	Thank you, Chairman. Comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen, I am once again asking the Republic Government, the Ministry of Finance and REM. The question concerns media service providers N1, Sport Club and Nova S. Namely, in a series of issues raised by the Republic Government we have identified who is not competent to act in any way when it comes to these media houses. We have determined that N1, Sport Club and Nova S are not registered in the Republic of Serbia, that they have not been granted licences to provide media services by the regulatory body, that they have been issued on EU territory in Luxembourg, and under the European Convention on Cross-border Television, whose license is also the Republic of Serbia. That's what's been determined. What REM, which is obviously responsible for these issues, has not answered and we are again insisting on, but we are looking for an answer to a clear, simple and simple dictionary, is the question very precise – is the N1 programme broadcast in the Republic of Serbia, is it a re-transmitted programme and is it being broadcast at the same time in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia or Luxembourg? Please answer clearly and precisely whether REM has established it. I ask this question because I doubt, for many reasons, not only on the basis of visiting our distinguished colleague Djukanovic on N1 television, but also on the basis of my own personal checking through my acquaintances and friends in the Republic of Slovenia and Luxembourg, whether they have any way there that the program that we can follow here through N1 television is identical and at the same time being followed in those two countries. The answer was negative. In order not to base our knowledge on personal checks, we know who's in charge, and that's REM, I'm simply asking for a clear and precise answer as to whether they found this. If they are unable to determine it, let them say it, there are other organs that can determine it. Since we haven't received a reply from the Ministry of Finance, I sincerely hope that, as well as the prosecutor's office that provided the answer, the Ministry of Finance is working on these cases and checking whether they are taxpayers in Serbia or not, they both have a way and a methodology to determine whether they are re-emissioning or not. If this is not about re-emissioning, which is a serious suspicion, then the tax police, the financial police and all other competent authorities are absolutely based on the Tax Procedure and Tax Administration Act, and in particular on Article 9(2), which states that – if a simulated legal transaction is covered up by other legal work, the establishment of a tax liability will be based on simulated legal work. Given that it is huge funds, which is a serious reason for us to suspect that they are being secreted, when it comes to the income of the Republic of Serbia's budget, through taxes and other incomes that these houses are not paying, allegedly on the basis of the re-emission of the programme from Slovenia or Luxembourg, or whatever it is they have already come up with in the meantime, I expect that, in line with the last question I have asked here and this question that I am asking not only the question, but by reporting to the competent tax authorities for verification and control and criminal reporting to the competent judicial authorities for verification and control. If REM does not do its job, he too should be subject to checking his work by these competent authorities that I mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-19-0.u61036	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Daniel Stojadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-19-0.u61037	Thank you, Chairman. President-in-Office, honourable fellow MPs, using the right set out in Article 287. Rules of Procedure, today I would like to appoint a Minister of Health to Mr. Lonchar. The fact is that the government and the ministry seek to improve treatment conditions on all three levels, to invest funds for construction, adaptation and completion of clinical centres in Belgrade and Nis, to reconstruct more general hospitals and health homes, which should improve the general conditions for treating our patients. I welcome all of this, as well as efforts to raise salaries to healthcare professionals, doctors, medical staff, non-medical staff, so that Serbia can provide enough medical staff who wants to stay and work in Serbia for a long time. The question I want to ask this time concerns diabetics, especially children who have type 1 diabetes, so they're on insulin. Namely, due to the nature of type 1 diabetes, it requires day-to-day continuous control that is performed multiple times in home conditions through tests that require multiple stings to be carried out during the day, and this is particularly a major burden for children. There is a much more painless way to measure blood sugar levels, and these are apparatus sensors, which without stabbings, or any blood intake, can determine that daily level of sugar. In European countries, as well as in some countries in our environment, these sensors are listed on a positive list and the cost of obtaining these sensors is covered by their health insurance funds. In this regard, I would like to ask the Minister of Health if these sensors are able to register in our Medicines Agency, i.e. the Ministry of Health and the Republic Health Insurance Fund of these sensors on a positive list and thus make it easier for Type 1 diabetics to control blood sugar levels daily, without so many stings, and this is particularly important for children diabetics, who are growing in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-19-0.u61038	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-19-0.u61039	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm not going to do this, I'm going to deal with the past as another colleague before, but not with science fiction, because I think youth should learn to develop, to have fun, to enjoy love, to learn new technologies, to make Serbia progress, to create families, not to beat stone and dig trenches for a piece of bread and a glass of hot water. In this regard, I would like to say that on Sunday, one important day was marked for Serbia, 75th year of the Halyard campaign, which has been hidden from all of us from our citizens for decades. 75 years ago, the biggest and most effective rescue action was carried out in World War II. Eight thousand soldiers of the Yugoslav army in the country under the command of Draža Dragoljub Mihajlovic, a people known as Chetniks, saved 500 and more than 500 Allied pilots and led them to the village of Prajana where it was marked this day. There was an impromptu airport, thanks to which, throughout this campaign, these people were saved and allied planes landed and they all sat in those planes free, peaceful, fed and returned to their units to continue fighting Fascism. Why is this action big? Because first they were all saved and secondly, because the Serbian people showed their humanity, their character, showed their courage and greatness because Dražina's soldiers brought these officers to the homes of our people. They're here, it's true, they shared a piece of bread with them, and they had little because of the war, but one other thing is more important, none of the military members, none of those people reported any of the only cases, and that's why the action was 100% effective. That's why we should be proud of everything that's been done, and the shame should be on us because we let, as a people, that no one knows about it, because we allowed in 1945 to be killed by both God and king and country and democracy and tradition. I am convinced that today we live as hard as we do because of these mistakes from that period. Serbs should be proud of having two anti-fascist movements while others were just fascist servants during the war. The fact has a lot, not just this action, for example, you have a full Internet photo, you can all check out how Keserović enters Kruševac together with the Soviet army, the Chetniks wear American flags, and the Soviet soldiers wear Soviet flags and take pictures together. It was a case in several cities. What happened later than 1945 when the Allies were deceived, as it was promised to allow the king to return to the country and that democratic elections would be promised, is another topic. Anyway, this all happened. 15 years ago, we passed the Law on Equality of these two movements, and the court ruled and rehabilitated Draž Mihajlovic. I demand the Ministry of Education to answer me when history and truth will enter the history books on two anti-fascist movements in Serbia and the Serbian people. I expect that answer to come in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, so as soon as possible and clear and accurate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-19-0.u61040	The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-19-0.u61041	Thank you. I refer the issue to the Prime Minister and, as I told the KIM office last time at the Government of the Republic of Serbia, by drawing attention to the president of the Assembly that the answers do not come at all from the Office, that it does not send any answers to any of the questions raised. There are not many such entities, I say most of the subjects that are in decent form looking for an answer to a specific question answer. Some more concrete and more content, some a little more formal, but generally it fits. The KIM office acts as an exterior, as if they had nothing to do with this National Assembly or with the institutions of this country, including the most important, formally the highest, which is this Assembly. The trouble is that in some other aspects I'm afraid, the KIM Office behaves and reacts in a similar way. So, let's not answer the specific questions of the MPs, my question specifically referred to the exit of Serbs from KIM to the upcoming Pristina, or Kosovo elections concerning which I had a very concrete proposal, a request and a expectation that the Government of the Republic of Serbia would call and declare and invite citizens of Serbia to the KIM not to participate, simply boycott these elections for countless reasons we could talk about all day long, but the key is not, and it is final that in these October elections extraordinary for the assembly so-called. The republic of Kosovo cannot be voted with Serbian documents. This is the first time, I stress and draw attention to both the public and the citizens, because it is being covered up for various reasons and pushed under the carpet, for the first time in these Pristina, Kosovo elections, it cannot be voted with Serbian documents. And the official stand on that was taken by their Central Election Commission. So I refer the issue primarily to the Prime Minister, the other top authorities in the country, but also to the Office for Kosovo and Metohija. It's not enough to just convict and say it's regrettable. In this act, this ban on Serbian citizens to vote in the part of the constitutional territory of the Republic of Serbia with Serbian documents and invitation Serbs to the Kim elections, however, and to vote for whoever, the government calls for it to be the Serb List, only the Serb List, but nevertheless by calling for the vote for anyone, in fact, the institutions of this country indirectly accept and recognise that Kosovo and Metohija are an exterior territory, that it is completely excluded from the constitutional system and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia and that, roughly, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia who have valid documents of the Republic of Serbia, cannot vote there. What is more than an invitation for the rest of the citizens and the remaining Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija to take Kosovo documents and thus to let them know that their country of origin, not their country of origin, but their state, is releasing them down the water. I think these elections should be boycotted, I said that last time, for countless reasons. After all, Kosovo Albanians have boycotted institutions and elections organised by the Republic of Serbia at KIM for ten years. But this, a slap like this, is kind of indirectly recognised by the President of the Republic, and that is precisely by referring a message or a sting to the United States, believing that they supported Pristina in that view that it cannot be voted with Serbian documents. But now, what it was and how it was, we can't go in. What's certainly true is the fact that it's a scandal that can't be overcome by what we're going to say -- here, we think it's regrettable, that it's scandalous and unacceptable. A team before, we see, senators of the United States, who, a few days ago, are one of them who spoke to the President of the Republic a few days ago, says that Aleksandar Vukic, in his opinion, is ready to enter into an agreement with Kosovo and recognise its independence, but he is angry, quote: "Arried as an ass because of a 100% taxi and therefore thinks that these fees should be abolished". It all comes together in a very bad picture that is not only unconstitutional, but also unacceptable, which is that Serbia is actually just looking for an excuse and a way and a form to quietly, in fact, accept or reconcile with Kosovo's independence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-19-0.u61042	Since none of the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups are answering for a word anymore, we are continuing to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Miladin Ševarlic and Dejan Radenkovic. We continue to work and move on to the search in detail on the first item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Higher Education. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that they have been invited to attend: Mladen Sarcevic, Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development and Bojan Tubic, acting as assistant minister of Education, Science and Technological Development. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Here you go, colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-19-0.u61043	Unlike this proposal, which is not a good solution and is not in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the Serbian Radical Party, Mr Minister, also speaks of this article, which I submitted the amendment to in front of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group, asking you to allow all students who entered primary studies at universities and higher schools by 10 September 2005, as well as master's and doctoral studies, to complete their studies without restrictions, according to the same plan and programme, which guarantees them the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, to complete their studies. You, and all the media, as well as these electronic and printed, explain, well, good will, as you said, and step out of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and yourself, to give them an additional period of two years, told them - well, you know, the last time they too took note. Whether someone is serious or unserious or serious, it's not yours, Mr. Minister, or anyone from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or any dean or rector, to evaluate. Every person is to himself someone who knows if he wants to study until the end, when his family circumstances are personal, whether he had some particular problems, whether he wanted to, etc. After all, who are we to bring to anyone who wants to bring the calling of an academic citizen of this country and to give our contribution with that diploma, one way or another, to interfere in life and to restrict anyone and to give them any deadlines? If that's the case, then the question is, how did you come to be able to do it in two years? After all, from the very beginning of this catastrophic "Bologne", and we, the Serbian radicals, have been here for almost 20 years, students have experienced really great shocks at the start of their studies, from the way they score, the stealing points, the nonreal recognition of their real work, because one point, you will agree, during lectures and exercises equivalent to 25 to 30 hours is not the same, and it is different everything from college to college. Accept, Mr. Minister, you have a constitutional basis for this and you will do great good to all those who want to eventually, and that is their right to complete their studies.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-19-0.u61044	Thank you. The word is from a colleague Jelena Žarić Kovačević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-19-0.u61045	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about extending the deadline for completion of the study, or if we are talking about a proposal that there is no deadline, but that the time for graduation is unlimited, I am alone at some point divided and perhaps I would personally support different solutions. But if we take into account that we are here today because of the students and to respond to their demands, then I think that we should, however, support the government's proposal to extend that deadline for the completion of the study, because not only may that deadline be needed in some legal sense, but I hope that it will have some psychological effect on them to work even harder and to work with the colleges, of course, end their studies. We discussed in principle the reasons that exist with students who are diverse, who exist with students who have not been able to finish their studies so far and are probably important for each of them personally, but we don't have to discuss them here. At this point, it is important that we help them and give them support to complete their studies. In this way, I think that professors at colleges and colleges themselves should think as institutions, give these students concrete help in colleges. In this way, it will not only help students, it will help all of us, it will also help the Serbian government. Here, we are also instructed in the principle debate as a good example, the Faculty of Economics in Nis. As many as 135 students have responded to their call, 28 of whom have graduated in recent months. So, even students who have not been able to finish their studies have shown us the willingness, have shown us the desire and the will to graduate what they have chosen to finish and to deal with what they wanted the next day. I think we're here to make it possible for them and we should work on that so that all those who failed to complete their studies do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-19-0.u61046	Ljiljana Malušić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-19-0.u61047	Thank you, Chairman. The honourable ministers with the co-workers of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen MPs, the amendment of my distinguished colleague should be rejected for the simple reason that, in turn, education is part of culture, and culture is the way of life. We need to be educated, because in life, we're going to have a bigger chance, but really, we've already extended the deadlines a few times, and now I think because of the stimuli of these people that the sooner they finish college or master studies or doctoral studies, so they can work, so they can contribute to this society, we're extending now for two years. No one says everyone has the right to study as much as they want. Of course, if someone turns 65, it's nice for him, but he won't be productive, he won't give results in society. That's just the point. If we have already extended, if someone enrolled in 2005 basic studies and studies at a higher school, so we extended it once, because it was supposed to end, then the second time, and we extended it to 2018 and 2019, and now for another two years, simply, I think it would be more comprehensive, more normal to give him a chance for two more years to really make an effort to finish college for those two years and be a useful member of this society. It's just a problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-19-0.u61048	Thank you. The word is by MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-19-0.u61049	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I support the amendment tabled by my colleague Natasa Jovanovic, because I think it is quite correct and on the legal side that the people who enrolled at the time have no limit to when they will complete their studies. I don't see why it's our problem to pass this law that will allow them to study for the rest of their lives, or until they're finished? We didn't even participate in the law, regulations. Our fault is nothing, only we are given the opportunity to correct something that others have ruined. I think we'll be obliged to these students if we don't accept this or this proposal like this amendment. No one gives us the right to stand in the way of someone and tell them – stop, you can't go on, because that's what I decided, that's because we, like most people, have decided. I hope so, and there's still time to make it right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-19-0.u61050	Thank you. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-19-0.u61051	Very short. Of course, we have our own concept of explaining these amendments, but I expected you to react to the Rules of Procedure a little while ago when your colleague was speaking, but I'm not speaking to the Rules of Procedure right now, I'm not going to spoil this debate. How is it possible for someone so politically immature to estimate that someone is unproductive at 65 years of age, working unproductive at 65 years of age? It's really an insult to people who do science, who do serious business, doctors, professors, judges, all who achieve even the best results in those years and after those years. This is really uncanny, inappropriate, and it reminds me of a statement from the same colleague when she said on one committee that she was looking forward to the migrant law, she says, that we would receive them into our empty villages because of the fall of birth. We understand that everyone has a political position, we understand that there are political views of certain parties, each of their own parties here, but, people, we have to think a little bit about what they say. This can't be an argument and, I repeat, a great insult to all people who at age 65 and over are doing serious jobs, are seriously involved in science, in their profession, and achieve extraordinary results that some won't be able to imagine in their lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-19-0.u61052	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-19-0.u61053	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I didn't answer for a word in the principle debate, so allow me now, Mr. Arsic, to say a few sentences on this subject. First of all, Mr. Minister, I have a lot of understanding for that original attitude that you put out in public, which is why some and the MPs and the media and some others have criticised you when you said that once you had to end the continuous extension of the deadlines for completing the study for the so-called so-called. Old students. Meanwhile, the government has estimated that it is in the general interest and in the public interest to be in favour of the so-called so-called. The old students are due for completion of the study to extend to another two years. You accepted it, we accept it, and, in order for there to be no dilemma, we will vote for it. So, the Ministry of Education and the Serbian government will have today, as today will be Voting Day, full support for this proposal for a law amending the Law on Higher Education. I answered my word so I could bring out a few things that could illustrate how much this thing isn't quite as simple. First, we don't have, which is amazing, but we Serbs are otherwise such, sloppy and reckless, we still don't have a fully accurate number of students who have enrolled studies before the law on higher education enters into force. Different data can be heard in public – 1,000, 5,000, 10,000 etc. That's the first thing. The second thing, in the principle debate, we listened to a lot of reasons. If you'll excuse me, that's my personal impression, I may be wrong, but it seems to me that some MPs were trying to invent 1001 reasons for students who enrolled under the University Law, so before the High Education Act came into force, so before September 2005, and we're not just talking about students who signed up in 2005, we're talking about, for example, students who signed up in 1995, 1998 or 2000. So just keep in mind what time distances we're talking about. I'm saying this, Mr. Minister, so that he can present to the citizens of Serbia why your initial position on the one hand is to end the continuous extension of studies to some extent justifiable. So here we have heard from the MPs of the people, and I understand the messengers of the people... I understand the MPs who belong to a group of MPs whose president I am. I understand the MPs of the opposition as well. In some ways, each MP tries to get in touch with certain layers of society, including students. We could hear different theories about why someone who enrolled in studies in 2005 or 2000 or before that could not complete their studies. He had some family problems, and he was sick, and this happened to him or something. Let's stop being hypocritical, and let's stop a little bit, what the people would say, pretend. If there are 10,000 students, if that's the exact number, I'm building up, I don't know, let's have 5,000, let's have 15,000, so is it possible that everyone was just sick, is it possible that everyone had some unsolvable life and family problems, is it possible that all of them had some things in their lives that made it impossible for them to finish their studies not in time, we broke those deadlines long ago, but in some parts, and also a deadline that could be called reasonable and decent? I think it's cases like that, for example. diseases, difficult family opportunities, etc., be sure, but only in a number of cases. I can't accept thesis, it's just amazing, it doesn't make sense to me that all these people were in such difficult living circumstances that because of these difficult living circumstances, they couldn't finish colleges or more schools that existed at the time, which they had enrolled in 2005 or before. Why am I saying this? Because I, from personal experience, like you, Mr. Minister, as well as my dear friend Bojan Tubic, as well as my colleagues from the opposition, as well as Prof. Ljubisa Stojmirović, who will vote for this amendment and I don't mind, but we all know and know from personal experience, from the private life of children who live hard, who don't have one or both parents, who have no money, are not from wealthy families, refugees, internally displaced persons, unfortunately have some disease, so they completed college within the deadline, so they mastered, so they doctored. What do we do with them? So some children have shown that they can resist life’s challenges. Some children have shown that despite everything, they can overcome certain very difficult living conditions. I'm saying this because I know it's unpopular to say, let's just say, let's all admit that there's a little bit of laziness in a number of these students, there's a little bit of inertness, there's a little bit of our old habits inherited from the last system -- I'm going to be able to behave, I'm going to do what I want to do, and when I'm in a state that, because the state is "republic", the general thing, take care of the general interest, and somehow get me out of a situation that I'm guilty of. So, I'm saying this because the state of Serbia has to really take care of students and students who are in difficult times in life and who, because of these difficult life opportunities, have difficulty learning in the course of college or some other school. But the state of Serbia also has to take care of those young people who have elana, strength, will to win life circumstances and to be successful students and successful students. Here, there's senior colleagues, there's professor. Marko Atlagic, here you are, after all, and you, Mr. Minister, remember how young people used to finish colleges? Kids are spoiled today, and I know it on my own case. We're all wrong. We're wrong about our own children. Why? Because we think we're working for them if we're going to leave that floscule - and why is it that a poor child is being tortured? I'm doing it myself. So I don't speak for anyone else's name, I make mistakes with my own children, and we all do. We think we'll do good to our children if we do the job they're supposed to do. Who's been finishing our colleges? Let's be honest, let's stop being hypocritical. Why am I saying this? I'm saying this so that the citizens of Serbia, since the minister of education was a few weeks or a few days on the hit by the media, and you said there would be no extension, and yet it was extended. I am now making some arguments that are likely to have come from Minister Sarcevic and therefore I understand his original position. It's easy to judge a man now—now, you said it, and you see the Government decided differently, and the congregation majority will vote differently. We're gonna vote for this, we're gonna extend the deadline by two years, but I just want to problem a social topic. This is an important social topic and to point out that today's vote for this bill does not mean that Minister Sarcevic was wrong. From his point of view, he was right. Why? Because we very often make mistakes when it comes to young people, one part of young people, not to say that there is such a situation everywhere. Today, young people, if so, Mr. Minister, I have such an impression, much more spoiled than before. Now we have, my colleague, Veronica, and I have a controversy. Who graduated from the university or from me or Marko Atlagic or Ljubisa Stojmirović or from you, Mr. Minister or Bojan Tubić? It wasn't nobody, but we learned well, someone was a better student, someone a little worse, we all came from more or less from some families that had some average property opportunities. None of us were too rich, he didn't have too many influential parents, he couldn't have any so-called. ‘relations’, etc. There were always people and families and young people who had such privileges. There was this so-called. ‘red bourgeoisia’ and some other bourgeoisia, etc. More or less, most students come from families that do not belong to these layers of society that can easily come to those privileges. So, we're our colleges, and here's Neđo Jovanovic now, I see the man, there's my colleague Komlenski, no one's finished our colleges, no one's been extending any deadlines, but nicely roll up the sleeves, sit down, warm up the chair, study, finish, take the exam. In your time, Mr. Minister, here's my friend Bojan Tubic, I have a law school exam in Novi Sad tomorrow, so in a week again, it's Bojane, I don't know which, September is the month, this is me thinking the 12th probationary period. In your time, Mr. Minister, how many deadlines have been examined? Four. January, June, September, October. Done. Now you have exam deadlines in one month twice. We have an October deadline that starts, here, tomorrow, right? Why am I saying this? The state went out to meet the students as much as possible. We went out to the students, and besides, one category of students thinks he's got a right, and he doesn't, it's not a right acquired, that he can study under that old law, that is, the legal regime that prescribed the old Law on the University for the rest of his life. He can't. He can study for the rest of his life, but according to the legal regime that is now in place, and this is not the only situation in which the legal regime is changing. What, changes in the legal regime of issuing driver's licenses, changes in legal regimes, changes in legal regimes in some third area of social life. You need your behavior to comply with the new regulations. You can't say - but yes, I got it right 50 years ago, what do I care if it was passed by some new law? You don't care, because you're obliged to comply with the standards of the new law. The state has been dating so far, and we all know why. Young people, students, some have objectively had difficulty completing the university within the deadline and every authority wanted to meet students who failed to complete their studies according to programmes that were current at the time of the Law on University, or before the adoption of the Law on Higher Education. It seems to me that all of us have made a bit of a mistake, because we're making these young people the wrong impression that something in life can be accomplished without work, without pain, and that someone will give something to someone, and they can't. Nemanja Sarovic throws. All right, Nemanja, I see there will be a lot of controversy on this subject today. So now I ask one question, we're going to vote for this today, I'm going to vote for this, it's nothing controversial, we're going to extend the deadline in two years, what's going to happen to the student? So, okay, he's gonna finish his studies on the old program, if he manages to use the smarts these two years that we're now giving him to finish. Wait, are we all aware, all of us MPs and we who will vote for this bill and those who will not vote, that there will be people who will be 40, 45, 50, some even more? Where does that man go, where does he go when he leaves behind the college door? Okay, he's gonna get a degree and then what? Is that what anyone's thinking? I think that logic was handled by Minister Sarcevic when he said that deadlines should not be extended. I accept that there were some legitimate social reasons to extend the deadline for the next two years. I'm only saying this to make Serbian citizens realize that this topic is not as simple as it looks. This topic is very demanding. This topic has many aspects of its own. This subject requires that we be honest. I know it's easy to talk to students today, and then to pensioners, and then to those, and then to those, so it's hard, so it's easy for you, so as a minister, it wasn't hard for you when you were studying or it wasn't difficult for me, or for Bojana Tubić. Bojan Tubic and I have in our ID cards as a place of birth for cities we can't go to and we can go to with a lot of difficulties. Isn't that right, Bojan? Are you from Osijek? Am I from Slavonski Brod? Did anyone ask me what it was like for me to get along in college, and my mom and dad didn't know anybody, or my teacher, or the dean, or the minister, or anyone, but, son, study if you want, if you don't want to go ahead and work. I chose to study, and I managed to finish college, and no one ever petted me, didn't care, didn't care, didn't ask me if I was having a hard time, if I had money, whether I was hungry, whether I was thirsty, whether I was like this or not. The same is true of my colleague Verica, Marko Atlagic, and Ljubis Stojmirovic, and all those people. We are now in a position to treat a mature man under the idea of a child. That's where we're wrong. That's what I say as a parent. I'm not saying this as an MP. I'm talking like a parent and it's my own fault for a lot of things, and it's the others' fault, except they won't admit it. We treat a 35-year-old man with a baby, and it's normal for a 35-year-old kid to sleep until 3:00 in the afternoon, and it's normal for his mom to take his lunch to bed and it's normal to stretch to 5:00 in the afternoon. Is that right? When did you, Mr. Minister, get up? I got up at five in the morning, so when my kids get up? When they don't go to school, they get up to ask God when, at 10:00, 11:00. Is that right? Kids are having a hard time today. They're tough books, they're hard teachers, teachers hate them, teachers are like this, teachers are like that, and I'm like a teacher in elementary school how many times he beat me up. Now the child has the right to write a complaint if the professor looks at him and we think we're doing good to the children. We don't prepare them for life. We'd like to avoid having a child on his skin to feel any injustice. That's impossible. It's impossible, people. Did I always get the grade I deserved? I didn't. I used to get a grade that was objectively lower than what I deserved, sometimes I got a grade that I was higher than the one I deserved, but that's life. There is no absolute justice in life, and I'm afraid, with our relationship with young generations, we create the impression that life is ideal, that there is no injustice in life, that there is no pain in life, that results are achieved without work. That's not true. There are also injustices in life, there is trouble in life, there is trouble in life, and we are our children, students are children, students are children, we should prepare to be strong and strong people who will succeed in resisting all life's challenges. That's what, I mean, we all need to work on both government and congregation majority. It is easy to put on the pillar of the shame of Minister Sarčević and tell him – ten days ago you said it will not be, and now you see it extended, what kind of minister you are, etc. Let's be honest with ourselves a little bit. It's impossible that, of all these 10,000 students, everyone had such difficult living circumstances that they couldn't graduate from college. I know, I've seen how many moms and dads they bring to college in the jeeps so that the kid doesn't get tortured so he doesn't get wet, so it's cold, so the wind's blowing, so it's raining, so the professor's heavy, so your son's been hard, so you're learning for two weeks, so you're tired, etcetera. We make young people weak, we make young people cowards, we make young people flabby people who won't be able to deal with life's challenges tomorrow. It's just the first step towards a whole series of life challenges you've yet to face. A young man thinks it's the hardest job in the world to pass an exam, which may be difficult. No, son, it's a lot harder when you graduate college, so you need to get a job, so you need to work, so you need to start a family, so you can have your kids, so you can raise them, so you can provide them with decent living conditions, etc. These are much greater torments than passing, I don't know, criminal law, mathematics one, algebra, psychology, introduction to philosophy or anatomy or, ask God, from some other science some subject. So I said this out of human need, so that the citizens of Serbia would understand that this problem can also be viewed from the corner of Minister Sarcevic, who is not a cabinet minister, but is a man who came from the world of education and who knows what education is, and students who, objectively, are in favour of this bill. They think it's in their favor. This bill, when adopted today, will go to them, in my opinion, only in one situation, if they use these two years to graduate from college. If they don't take advantage of it, the state can extend them again for two years, but what is it? It's an extension of agony, and every agony has to end once. The state will have to stop extending deadlines once. Let me try to open up another topic. Okay, now we're dealing with students who haven't been able to finish college. Ministers, on you, at the Serbian Government, it is up to us from the congregation's majority to provide conditions for young people who are talented, who are worthy, who finish their colleges, to provide them with conditions not to go to the white world, but to stay in Serbia, to be doctors, engineers, lawyers, economists, etc. Not only do we deal with dads and moms who are only 10 and 15 years old to graduate from college, who have everything in their lives, and there are such people among them, let's not lie, there's plenty of them, but to deal with young people who don't have a lot of parents or a lot of money, but they're worth it, they want to work, they want to fight, and to provide them with conditions to stay in Serbia. I would like the next time you show up at the National Assembly to welcome us with a bill of law, how can we help these people, which the state measures can take, which the Autonomous province can take, which is measured by local self-government can take to help such a category of students, so that these people stay in Serbia. I know how many people, young people, who have a hard time living, who have managed to graduate from college. It's not polite to mention names, but I know a young man whose parents were expelled from Krajina, in the "Storm" 1995, who now lives in a village near Šapec, by hitching truckers every day at four or five o'clock in the morning, so people who drive trucks, going to Novi Sad, going to lectures, and by the same way he was coming back to his home, an unfinished house, who managed to finish the Faculty of Technical Sciences as one of the best students, and now he's an assistant at the Faculty of Technical Sciences, and he didn't have a rich mom, or a rich dad, or connections, or anything like this, or that. In due time, I think Faculty of Engineering, a difficult college, finished master's studies, now finishing doctoral studies and now he's an assistant. What do we do with people like that? How are we going to help them? Let's think about people like that a little bit. Okay, here we are thinking about this category of students, let's think about that second category of students, who have equally difficult life opportunities, have managed to beat them, have managed to overcome them and show that knowledge, by fighting, will can achieve some life result. That's why I understand you, Mr. Minister, and that's why I understood your initial position that it should be cut there once. A different decision has been made, the congregation majority will support the decision. But this is what I'm saying, and because of my fellow MPs, it's not our job to court anyone, but to tell the truth. True, today we often make mistakes when it comes to the process of education and training of young people. My colleagues from the SRS say it's the Bologna process. Someone else will say it's the law, some will say it's the minister's fault, some will say it's the dean's fault, it's the rector of that or this university. I say, first of all, it's our parents' fault. Vladika Nikolai said a long time ago -- the biggest enemy is their parents, and that's what he said because many parents in their best desire to do best for their children, make their children into people who are not ready to live and we should think about it. I will vote, of course, for this bill, as well as for all my colleagues, there is no doubt about it, and there Mr. Minister, you will have our support, and I only said this because I thought it was unfair for you to be exposed to attacks without hearing the arguments that you were probably in charge of when you were in public, that the state should once cut and stop extending deadlines.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-19-0.u61054	Slowly, colleague, the first right to the replica of MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-19-0.u61055	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Ministers, Mr Tubic, the honourable MPs, is a clear stance of the SPS parliamentary group, and it fully coincides with what the esteemed counterpart Martinovic said. It is true, we will vote in favour of this bill whether willingly or reluctantly, willingly or reluctantly, there are a number of issues left, a number of dilemmas that the distinguished colleague Martinovic has opened and that are difficult for us to close in this way. When we talk about students who have so-called students. The treatment of multiple students and the problem of multiple students, then we need to analyze them individually, because each of them has its own dimension, the situation of life and the burdens it carries, and on the other hand there are those who did not even have those burdens, who, without any life mortgages, had the opportunity to end the studies, bring them to an end and become useful members of the social community. Unfortunately, it's a lot like that. Where, according to us, from the SPS, is the mistake besides what Honorable colleague Martinovic said, that the burden of responsibility on parents stands? There's a burden of responsibility on us as a legislator. Should we have responded earlier when we had the opportunity to recognize that this problem would experience this level of complexity that we are talking about today? We probably did, but again for some similar, maybe the same reasons we're talking about today, we've made decisions, we've voted in this House, and here's who knows which time we've extended our study to the senior students. It's true that colleges have a certain record of what that number is, but it's interesting that we don't have that data, because that statistical data is very important. Whether it's 30,000 multiple students, whether it's 40,000, whether it's a smaller or larger number, specifically from Nis and Nis University, there's a record that five thousand students signed a petition to extend their term of study, just now have treatment or a category of multiple students. Personally, as a student of Belgrade University, therefore not a private university, I was a participant or someone who was involved in everything that was related to study, participated by those who did not have enough means to exist and by those who spent the funds of the minority unfavorable. What do I mean? Well, the largest number of students, just those who unfortunately couldn't enjoy the benefits of various material pleasures and also hedonism by their parents, didn't graduate from college. On the other hand, colleges were attended by those whose material position was the most difficult. Considering that I was a law school student, the Law School used to be the university where most students were enrolled. Later, the figure between social and technical colleges was about normalized, and that is no longer such a large proportion. Interestingly, the largest number of senior students remain in social sciences. Again, given that it was those who were mostly instead of studying, replaced their status with some other status, therefore, no longer student status, that they regulated even the employment status, where they founded companies, founded enterprises, business operations, realised revenues, but forgot about studying. Why would one moral question be asked, the state and we, according to such a category of students, have the answer that we present today, or which will be passed through our decision when we vote this law? Is that morally justified? I'm not sure it is. Is it morally justified to put into the same basket those who, by their work, by their labor, by their efforts, by pawning, by giving up a lot of things, and most of all on the burden of their parents' very modest budgets managed to complete colleges compared to those who had quite the opposite status, the opposite position, and in some ways even abused it? Not a small number of those who have studied for 10, 12, 13, 15, 20 years. What excuse is that? Dear fellow Martinovic, you are absolutely right, what is this excuse after so many years of unfinished studies that the deadlines for completing college studies are renewed? What I read as some excuse by students is bordered by hypocrisy, because it is said – the biggest or most important reason why study is extended, i.e. why it cannot be completed within the deadline is, dear Mr. Sarčević, the alleged abundance of study material, i.e. programme, etc. Can anyone seriously consider this subject accept such nonsense? I'm sure he can't, and I'd like someone who's seriously talking to me on this subject to talk me out of it. I'll hardly be able to accept arguments that have some basis precisely on these facts that I pointed out. The SPS parliamentary group, as we said at the very beginning, as our authorised representative, Dr. Zarko Obradovic, pointed out, will support this proposal, but the question arises – until when? Will we be in a position to do so again after this deadline that we vote to extend the deadline for the study? Will we again be in a position to take a huge degree of responsibility for ourselves because the state of Serbia is deprived of a large number of people who should be useful members of the social community, and on the other hand we give them the right that in other countries is difficult to exist? As far as I know, and I may be wrong, correct me, there is no problem in Croatia for the majority of students. Even a far smaller problem with the majority of students is in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina than with us. For EU countries, I don't even want to comment. Russia has long solved and largely managed to solve the problem of study, especially when it comes to higher education and should also serve as a pattern or model of behavior that we should accept as a behavior matrix. Unfortunately, we don't do that. Therefore, Your Honor, you have our support when it comes to your position. Your position must be accepted with great understanding, as a man who is part of a system of higher education and education in a comprehensive sense of words on the one hand, but on the other hand as a citizen, a parent, a man who thinks in a way that implies the thinking of every citizen who wants good to his country and who works in the interest of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, distinguished fellow MPs, I think that no matter what we support this, we should also have this way of thinking about how critical the way of thinking is, when it comes to extending the deadlines. I hope that my friend and distinguished colleague Professor Stojmirovic will accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-19-0.u61056	The People's Messenger Marko Atlagic has the word, then the Prophet of Radet. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger of the Faith of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-19-0.u61057	It's article 27, Mr. Arsic. What you've done now is a scandal. Because I personally heard from here that Martinovic called you and said – now Atlagic, then after her. So that's amazing. Here you give a replica to people who are named and mentioned. I would not answer because my colleague Martinovic mentioned my name and name, because there was no reason, just before counterpart Nedjo Jovanovic did not speak a replica, he spoke about the amendment for eight minutes. But don't represent the public the way it isn't. This is the only SRS parliamentary group mentioned. By mentioning my colleague Martinovic to me, he didn't say anything wrong. Yeah, I graduated law school, no matter what, no rich parents, no college interventions, three and a half years from now with an average of 8.7, and I have no reason to be ashamed of it, nor to replicate it on the subject. But everything here is said, of course, a replica of two minutes to something that lasted 30 minutes is not possible, but we will speak what our views are through our amendments. We perform here in principle. We don't court anyone. Well, we're not crazy not to understand. Whoever defends the opposite attitude, courts tens of thousands of students who regularly finish and who regularly study, we know that, but we never court anyone, but we bring out the principled views of the SRS. Well, didn't I quote you in our 43rd program's principle debate? Says a colleague -- what happens to someone who finishes college at 60 and change years? So ask these of yours. Ask this guy from Nis who doesn't know exactly what his college's name is, ended up at 65. Go through all the local self-governments, including this Assembly, wherever someone works with high school, comes with college, doesn't even know where his diploma is from, gets a regular place to get paid with college. Don't, please, let's talk seriously about a serious matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-19-0.u61058	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger, Mikhailo Jokic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-19-0.u61059	Article 27. I answered the replica right after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-19-0.u61060	My colleague Yokic, you can't be a member of 27. She's a colleague of Radeta's.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-19-0.u61061	Please, does this machine of mine work or not? Do you realize that I came to you from the very beginning? Maybe it's a broken machine, so you don't stop it, or you won't give me your word, so I'll go rest for a while. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-19-0.u61062	Comrade Yokic, you can't be a member of 27. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-19-0.u61063	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Minister with associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is a very important topic, it is not only important today, it was important yesterday. In the 19th century, it was as current as it is today. Starting only since the Law of 1882, when the minister was Stojan Novakovic, since the introduction of basic compulsory education to date, many laws and curricula have changed. We're clear now. We have also accepted on the board a proposal from the government, but it is true that students, let me put it this way, have reported to all the MPs, according to the old teaching plan and the program. They listen now, my answer is - please contact the Ministry and others, the Assembly is last. What is the difference between the current assembly and earlier, when it comes to the minister? Please, since the public listens, professors, educators who know the history of pedagogy, pedagogical ideas, the difference is that, in the 19th century, the minister last made a decision. It was advice, the fellow professors know it, the minister knows it very well, and he should have his own attitude and anyone who wants the quality of education and education would do so. However, let me say, and the other part I will now speak, which Mr. Martinovic has set up and I think the essence is what he said. Dear People's MPs, you know very well, as I do, that Serbia is conducting a project to speed up the country's modernisation. Is it true or not? We have been implementing this accelerated project since 2014. Now we're going to come to one and the other students. Education and education is an area where this process is carried out through various forms of educational and educational work. One of these forms is digitization in schools. Now we're going to come to advanced students, and I think the citizens, and the students know it, will be very clear. Thanks to you, Mr. Minister Sarčević, for the sake of the public, I am saying this, in 3,000 primary schools in the Republic of Serbia, it is equipped with digital cabinets, computers and new technological equipment. I want to do it twice. Your thanks to Mr. Minister Sarčević, in 3,000 primary schools, counting central and regional, the Republic of Serbia is equipped with digital cabinets with computers and new technological equipment. This is for a number of reasons, which is why, once again, if I have to do five times, which is what those who aren't in the O.R. today, only two years earlier had doubts about it, and there's also today here on the right and left, whatever you want to suspect. Our political opponents were extremely opposed to it being impossible, as you can see. At the same time, however, the modernisation of curricula and programmes has been launched, so-called. Inner, gentlemen, school reform. That's what we need to know as MPs, and that's what the professors know about the ministry and the parents. What is very important today that we didn't talk about very much in the principle debate, the professor's role is changed, the professor is no longer a single or only source of knowledge, as a source of knowledge of providing various information is available in that line as a source of emphasis, but neither school nor teachers are excess. On the contrary, once again I say the role of educational institutions becomes key in preparing young people for life in society, what Mr. Martinovic said, the devisa, educational workers know it, the minister knows it, it has been before - we are not learning for school but for life. It is in the sense of students under the old teaching program, and it speaks of them in particular. Class and professors, becoming mediators now, it's Bologna. Someone asked what Bologna was - it's Bologna. Professors know very well, especially educators, what it is in the education process becomes mediators of education and are no longer the only source of knowledge or information. So, in the debate, I talked in principle about students finishing studies under the curriculum and the programme and their quotes of torture, citing examples of world authorities that have created the greatest achievements in their late years, but these are not all gentlemen of the people's MPs and respected citizens of Serbia. So these were individuals, I said from the field of art, philosophy, science, etc. We have a great man who's finished his studies early in the 11th year of his life at 18 and not to be listed now. These are the ones the minister takes care of, and Mr. Martinovic, who emphasizes, and the gentlemen know that in particular. Let me just say that one scientist in his 11 years of life is finding it in a bowl. So what about him, what about one who became a famous composer when he was 18. It's up to them to the future, to the advanced. We were also in socialism, you who weren't born, taking care of the advanced ones, and it was called an advanced group of so-called. We've had advanced classes, but we've had weaker classes. However, in the process of globalisation and digitisation, we need to take more care of these advanced, taking care of others, so the state does not just account. You know, ladies and gentlemen, who takes care? Well, educational institutions and professors, the professor's role changes, me, Mr. Martinovic and you gentlemen professors, we need to assess the individual ability of each student and student, their abilities and each program. That's the point. It's called reform. That was in the 19th century. That's what you do today if you want Bologna. Can't particularly, bau professors, do what they did, and there's a little Mr. Minister in this group. There is, but it's small. So I can't do what they did. Let me say in my opinion that bau teachers are pedagogical unprepared, usually people who have no connection to pedagogy, didactically completely dysfunctional, do not approach individually and do not assess each individual, student or student. They create false pedagogical authority of themselves, not their ability to help each individual. So I have to say the benefits of individual professors or even myself, and since I'm a pedagogue, there's a genetic code, and there's very few of them. But let me say it one more time, I think the government's ex-wife was going out in the end is enough three, four-time extensions and two-years. This should be stopped more and the government has indeed taken care of it and Minister Sarcevic. I would have done the same if I had been in his place, and he is the one who preserves both the quality of education and education together with educational institutions. I mean, by my estimate, since we've extended three times, I think there's very little of them, but we can't say here, the day before in the debate, there's a businessman who doesn't need money he wants an average of ten. Well, it's not street schools and colleges... Hey, gentlemen, how does he want it? Well, let him go to master's school, so he can study and study. So there are all kinds of elements, we've met students through changes in the law, and it's been done all the time in the past, but it hasn't worked this long. So, I support Mr. Minister, the government's position and we will vote today and vote that our students, to support them for two more years, and it is your extraordinary position to recommend to both the bologna and the universities. It shows your concern as an experienced educator. I'm a little emotional because you're the kind of guy who won't show up, so don't brag. What you've done in the last three years, it's not the predecessors in 20, let's not get angry, I'll list them if you need a press conference, all tax-accounting what you've done. They made fun of it, thought we'd never reform it, because these unfortunate people across us said it was impossible. You've been here for three years, and they're not in these benches today. You know why? They will not face the truth, not only in the field of education and education, but also in the area of economic activity and industry, however you want to live together. I'm sorry, I'm a little emotional, I understand every student, we've talked to them, but they really have to give it to themselves, but someone who's a businessman for 20 years and wants an average of ten, and he's sixty years old. Well, the question is, how did this business develop if it didn't end? Here, I ask him that question. Let's move on to master studies, nothing's a problem, there's money then, and let him study. So we've been taking a very good look at each individual and all the honors of those with special needs, and we've been keeping an eye on them, talking to them, and I think we've really come out. You have the support of both the Ministers and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-19-0.u61064	The word is by MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic. Here you go. Excuse me, colleague Stojmirovic. (The Faith of Radet: Well, is it possible for Arsic, you said just before, after Mark Atlagic?) And you were looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure? The Witch of Radeta: This is not a replica. It had nothing to do with the replica? My colleagues, Radet, and your violation of the Rules of Procedure, did not have any injuries to the Rules of Procedure, but you expressed your political position and replicated other MPs. Of course, I don't mind, but don't blame me for other things. Here you go, colleague Stojmirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-19-0.u61065	This is also an opportunity for those who are monitoring the transmission to attend a beautiful moment of democracy. It is here today that the SNS is living the spirit of democracy, and I am going to vote in favour of the SRS amendment, and on the other hand I have the opposite view of most of my colleagues who are publicly pleading, although there are some who support what I said, and I have discussed it very often with Professor Atlagic, we have had the same attitude since the beginning of this problem, now, normally, he has changed his attitude, I have stayed in it. Now let me say what else is good. It's a good thing we're dealing with different arguments here, but we're trying to find out who's right, who's wrong. I must say, I think that my colleague, who mentioned me, misunderstood this. It's not that these people who haven't finished college, they're graduating from college to get a job and how they're going to get a job. That's their problem, people. Those who were good, valuable, earlier, had a better chance of getting jobs and finding better jobs, which would be their work and effort. Are any of these people gonna get a job or not? I don't know, and I can't know, but I know from talking to them that it's people who already have a few children, that it's people who do, that fellow Atlagic is surprised that he has all tens, the other two exams, I've talked about it, he's left with two exams, what kind of an expert he's going to be and how he runs his private business and how he can be successful, and he didn't finish college, etc. Atlagic, come to me in Black Trav, you will find 10, 20, 100 of the most successful construction experts in Serbia, and not some of them finished high school. It's not that an entrepreneur or a manager can only be the one who finishes college, it's important that a man has something that leads him to success. I don't like to compete with lawyers, because they can do it anyway. Is it true that their acquired rights can be annulled, I do not want to go into it, but from our SNS deputies, it has been said that in Croatia students have sued and received a dispute in front of the state and no one can limit their deadline of study. I don't want our students suing our country, and what the people say, "ciganize" without need. How will this problem be solved? Well, it won't last two years at all. But if we accept this amendment and we end that time for them that they have to finish, they won't all end, but that problem won't even show up, so we'll forget it. Now, someone's worried about what a college graduate is going to do at 60, 65, and I don't know what year it is. Well, it's his desire to finish college. Let him take his diploma, hang it on the wall, do whatever he wants with it. Someone wants to write to him on the dipl monument. An engineer, a politician, this, that. It's people individually, each of us chooses what he will do, where he will work, and what he will do by profession. Those of you who understand a little more about psychology, I'm sure Atlagic also knows, he also deals with pedagogy, he has letters that theory. What does it say, what's the most important thing to a man? At the beginning of the food and to hide it somewhere, to survive, and clothes, and beyond, but what is at the top of that pyramid is nothing but pleasure, everyone strives to be what is the soul. The butcher wants to be a butcher, the painter wants to be a painter, the singer wants to be a singer, and someone wants to finish college, graduate. Well, you have cases where there are people who finished two, three, five, seven colleges. Here, it comes to me now, listening to all of our debates and about these wonders, about the rights, I feel like I'm going to get into the old days to throw myself at that right and doctorate law school. Here, word of honor, that comes to me, after all these stories and stories. I'm not asking for it so I can court the students, and what I have to say to them. I've finished my career, but I'm a professor in my soul, and I realize it's my duty to respect those students. Where would Sarcevic be minister if there were no students? Where would the Atlagic professor be when there were no students? Where would Martinovic be, where would I work if there were no students? And now we're talking, just like that marketing I taught. The buyer is in the centre of attention, everything is focused on the customer, give the buyer, so we say – students are the main, all students, students. I'm not asking these students to be released if they don't know anything, far from it. But if it is their right to complete the university according to the law it was when they signed up, let them go so that neither Sarcevic nor Matinovic nor Stojmirovic will know tomorrow how many of us have never finished. None of us will know tomorrow how many of us who haven't finished. I said last time, my colleague enrolled FON, as a long-time student, means that he became FON, so in the second generation he was a freshman. He retired and didn't finish college. So, what? That's what I'm saying about these students we're talking about today. It doesn't matter if there are 10 or 100, if there's one, don't let them get in the way so they can't accomplish what they're up to. What Martin said, he's got these spoiled kids, we've got parents who suck, and here I am saying to myself, who don't take care of it the best way, as the bishop said it after Martin's quote. It is our fault, but don't make another mistake right now, so we get in the way of other people's kids for no reason. There's an opportunity to end it the most painless way and I'm willing to end it that way. If this amendment is not accepted and what I'm saying is not accepted, I'm not a fool to vote against this proposal. In the interest of the students, I will vote for this proposal. I think we should support what's best for students, and that's best, let's end that obligation, two years, years, three, five, so let's study as long as they can, as long as they have the strength.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-19-0.u61066	The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. The right to replicate the party.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-19-0.u61067	My God, Mr. Arsic, if Callister is watching this session, you're not gonna have a good time. You don't exactly do what the Rules of Procedure says and stuff like this. It is said here that SRS MPs invent 1.001 reasons why they should not limit the time of completion of the study. On the contrary, we don't mention a single reason. We talked about what people, these students, wrote to MPs, to everyone, not just us, we mentioned it, but we argued that the reason why someone is studying, which is why they study for 50 years, or as long as they want, is his personal matter, he can study from a hobby. So we're saying we don't have the right to interfere with reasons why someone didn't finish college in time. Then you can't tell us that we're making up 1.001 reasons. We never asked, for example, why a colleague, Marko Atlagic, who his reasons were that he mastered at 32 and doctored at 47. He had a man's reasons, and that's how he ended up. Mr. Martinovic, for example, mastered at the age of 27, completed his doctoral studies at 35. So we don't ask why Martinovic did it much faster, the man probably had no other reasons, circumstances, a colleague Atlagic probably had some circumstances that wouldn't let him doctor before 47. So now we're supposed to put that on a pillar of shame? No! No! Whenever anyone decides to finish his studies, he's a master's degree, he's a doctor, he needs to do it, he needs to be allowed by the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-19-0.u61068	The word has a minister, Mr. Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-19-0.u61069	If you'll excuse me, I think we're only in one delusion all the time. No one has the right to study as many years as they want, and it doesn't have to be the law or the amendment to solve it. You can't have two systems parallel in one country, you can have the Law of Higher Education, which has long entered and which we don't apply, but we patch it, we patch it, we patch it. You have a chance to recommend to the colleges, also repeatedly given to so-called. You'll have to fix the old bolognas. Well, you know what? I was wisest to say that it was the obligation of a higher school institution and what we're talking about right now. She said Saska Tomic that day what would happen, and you see how we trust then the higher education institutions, that they will accept you, and accept people. It's not a bauk. All of a sudden, we're untrustworthy of our same high school institutions. I say that to the people of the university when they started the story - the state is more visible, the state will take more part in the councils, had 15%, and after eight, nine years they did not choose members of the Council. We talked about how the state will now be visible with 30% and how it will disrupt the autonomy of a higher school institution, the university. There, you saw her break in, you walked in with a brick and you barricaded yourself and you broke up. And that's the way it works. This morning, visiting on one television, I asked a question – why am I sitting here today? If the Rectorate has been violated, I am not a lawyer, but I know at least one five laws and no legal profession has called to say, and that is the right to property that is foreign, it is the right to work as rectors and other people. By what you're saying, we're students from the political group, you've given yourself legitimacy, and where is it? Whether some students will remain denied confirmation and not get a home, so it can happen. Is that supposed to follow creatively and extend some other deadlines for other things? Well, I don't think I have to. If we had confidence that high school institutions would accept a recommendation for old patients, my original intention was to do so with this so-called. old programs. If you remember, the explanation I also gave in the media was that we're going to ask every Dean to get to the exact number, we have an IIS that's getting ready and see what's possible to confess. So also, with one good methodology, we'd come to take care of them. Nobody said they didn't care about them. You know, I'm not older than this house, I'm not older than the government, and I can't impose my opinion. On the contrary, I'm much lower, and so I'm going to do what I'm expected to do, willingly and reluctantly. I also said by quoting the folk parable "The Dark Fairy" - you better take that so you don't regret it, but take it. So it's better to do it anyway. If you would allow me just one more minute, I would stick to the words not only of Alexander Martinovic, but of other colleagues and Nedja, when we talk about the educational role of school, society. Do you know when we started eroding as a society? The moment we rejected patriarchal education as the worst thing in the world. Other countries, both China and Korea and Russia, keep their traditional values of education. It's not a patriarchal training to respect the hierarchy of a patriarchal cooperative. It's a historical delusion. I kissed my grandfather's hand, but no one expects my grandson to kiss my hand. But he knew the order, he knew what the child could do, what he had to do, what his obligations were, and that's it. I'm trying to awaken my conscience. You can't take that back to school with any decree. And when we talk about reforming education and strategy, there's a raise and then everything else. We talk about it here all the time. This home may be the best place in the country to talk about it right now. When there's violence, do you know what's hidden? Educational function of the school, but also educational function and family. These kids have their parents, and they don't know how to open an electronic diary to see that his kid doesn't go to school for 10 days, and the school magically doesn't send the Centre for Social Work, and they don't do their job. At least I'll be as Resort Minister everything that's up to me to do. So we spoiled the kids and I was looking for reasons to do it. Here, for 40 years, I've been working in education and it's annoying. How does a 14-year-old kid decide on behalf of his parents? If we're going to hold our own, we're right, and what are we limiting high school? Well, she can last as long as anyone wants. So he can't. Guys, society needs to be arranged. We are very reasonable and thorough, but because of some of the troubles that have happened to Serbia, we are aware of it, and the collapse of the state, and sanctions, and war, and blood, and the arrival of people here on tractors, and all of that, we felt that we needed to protect our children more than normal. But that's over. We should slowly get out of that shell and start giving them good opportunities for life, better examples. Where will you set a better example than yourself? I'm pretty strict in the whole wide family, on my side and on my wife's side. All the kids who wanted to go to college for a long time, I've been mussing, I've been holding my throat, and I've been helping. I think it was some kind of mission of mine. Don't get my messages wrong when I tell them: people, sit down, learn. Maybe the minister won't come behind me and want to do this. There may not be a call of parliament to extend them further. That's what this is about. I got thousands of e-mails, too, but I'm getting the same e-mails from people who are waiting for August to expire to do it again. There's a trinket here in that story. It's human for parliament to do this. I didn't piss myself, nor am I rigid in not accepting a second opinion. In that sense, of course, if I could vote, I would vote for this same decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-19-0.u61070	Right on line, MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-19-0.u61071	Dear Vice President, just a few sentences. It is not true that we have often spoken, those who know me as a man and another MP. We talked very little about it and my answer has always been, as well as the students, you can check the email answers, the first address is the ministry, and then the government, etc. However, when it comes to personal matters, it is true that in 1974, verifiablely, I graduated from the Faculty of Philosophy, history, and pedagogy, and in 1976 I had already worked immediately. In 1976, I enrolled in postgraduate studies. Mr. Minister knows that and those who are a little older, he lasted two years, a lecture. In 1976 he enrolled and graduated in 1981, or mastered postgraduate studies. For two years, the exams had to be taken. For your information, 21 postgraduate exams. I never said that to myself, I was one of the best students, I'll bring the index here, check it out, see, at the Faculty of Philosophy in Zadar. In the meantime, according to that system, the minister knows, if you've written a lot of papers, and since I've already written a pedagogy, a lot of papers. For those who do not know, accepted doctoral dissertation in Zagreb at the Faculty of Philosophy, listen to the gentleman from Zagreb, and topic doctoral accepted. So, the subject of a doctorate. The odds were what they were. I was even an external lecturer at the Faculty of Philosophy in Zadar in a third-rate relationship, and I was admitted to it constantly because of the unfortunate circumstances I wouldn't want to about. It ended the way it ended. (President: Bringing the end, colleague Atlagic. Therefore, gentlemen, everything is verifiable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-19-0.u61072	The word is made by Mrs. Maja Gojkovic, and then by the MP of the people, Mihailo Jokic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-19-0.u61073	Thank you very much for the opportunity to participate in this debate. Of course, I would like to support the Minister's proposal, although I believe that he too deeply disagrees with this proposal. We all know that we're a little bit under the pressure of people who call themselves old students in society by the old system, and yet the desire not to cause a problem where it obviously doesn't have to be. What we're going to do with our vote is one gesture of goodwill to break out that argument to most of the old students that something prevented them from completing college. In a conversation with counterpart Martinovic, you should also consider how old these students are. Someone here said, no matter how old they are, as long as they can hold out, they need to study, I think it's prof. Stojmirovic, it's not like that. There's a third-century college in the world, and I'm not saying anything persuasive. That's what I'm saying very positively. I think we should think about that too. I don't think the state should stand behind it, but some private sector, as there are private schools and private universities. They should consider that there is a way of studying both for a third time or for people who have been prevented from studying as a majority of the population, to enroll in colleges when they were 19 and 20. That's how it's solved in a world where it's hard for those of you who talk about finishing college here, so you're starting out, how it was an ad, unfortunately, to enroll in a college, and then to know that there are colleges and schools there for a third time or for some reason that they can't study regularly. But these people, you said to the ministers at one point -- kids, sit down and learn, it's a little bit relevant that they're children. The last ones they signed in, Martinovic says, were in 2005 and the children are now slightly older than me. So, thanks for the compliment, Minister, for giving me a message that I could study as old as I did and go to college. But don't worry, I don't have ambition, at least not before retirement, and then I'd like to see the possibility of studying for the third time, just to make some of my dreams come true, a little bit of life, a little bit because of the influence of my parents. Because in our day, parents have had a crucial impact on what we will end and what we will become. I couldn't agree more with you. Our society is immersed in a great population, that we give in everywhere where we disagree deeply that we should give in, so we stopped talking loudly. We're all politically correct, and we can't say what really hurts us, which is that one part of our family, one part of our society, turns their heads off from their children and thinks that they shouldn't participate in creating discipline in a young man, as something that's desirable to be a good and responsible man later, when that youth is over and when you need to be a part of it, a responsible individual of our society. So these young parents have to understand that they have a crucial role to play in how one young man will respond, so, of course, also educational institutions, although it's somehow educationally come out of our school system and it's terrible, because we all intimately comment on certain phenomena in our society that are already really drastic now, but when we talk to each other, we all agree that we've become one society that completely leads to young people, and we're looking for permanent culprits in another place, instead of saying that something that's black is black, if it's red, it's red, and that some child is not raised. Dot. It wasn't brought up. A child the family pays attention to, in a family circle, it doesn't come to beat another girl in another school. I don't have a child in my community, among my generation's parents, in my environment, no one has a child who went to beat another child in another school or at his school, or has resorted to violence, or swearing, or watching some scrimmage programs. It's all settled within the family. And they can't blame their parents for schools, teachers, teachers, teachers, for cursing their children, resorting to violence, and recording that violence. The parents of girls who were standing there the other day, laughing, grinning at that scenic scene that we all had a chance to look at. Well, it's a very broad topic, and we'll certainly have a chance to talk about it. Let this be really the last time we extend any deadlines. Martinovic is absolutely right. Which one of us here in the O.R. is easy, here, not a lot of kids, who's easy to graduate from college? Come on, which one of us didn't have family problems, sleepless nights, because they're sick parents, brothers, sisters, or do you have any internal problems? But we learned, day and night. And when they fail us, rarely when they in the secretariat could help us a little bit so that the exam wasn't glued to each other for two or three days, but we pray and complain for at least five days and then those good aunts in the secretariats come out and help us out a little bit. The society around us didn't pass out because we can't go to the next exam because we don't have enough time because we're sick because our parents don't have enough money, because, I don't know, my father was sick, so he was in the hospital, but that's why I had to go to the exams, so as soon as I finished my school. Or generations of our fathers, where my father gave his family a year because of his lack of property in June so that he could help his family back in October to the next year, which he regularly wrote down. What is more difficult today in today's society for young generations than it was in our generation or in our parents' generations after World War II? Don't tell me there weren't any problems then, they were stretching, stretching, I don't know what they were doing, we were all fainting, we were reading on the cover that someone couldn't really finish college because he's got some problems and he's working. You want me to give you an example from my family where they ended up working, one program left them two exams, they missed a couple of years of family creation, kids, and then they had to finish college, and suddenly they had 13. They didn't whine, no one fainted because of it, but at night, when they finished their work, they finished work within the family, studied at night and took the exam. I have an example of a person from my family who finished 13 exams in four months. No one asked her if it's easy for you or if it's hard for you. And end this fairy tale and fainting. Someone here was saying -- well, it'll be useful members of society. Well, members of society and those who don't have a college degree are useful. It's become a fashion for us to have college. Why? If you can't finish it, you won't finish it. What are you gonna do with college at 60? That's what I'm interested in. What are you gonna do with that? It's hard to find a job after 50 if you're out of a job, let alone in the 60s, to shine with a degree after a college you've been in for over 20 years. Let's be realistic. We're going to support this now, but that doesn't stop us from speaking openly about problems. It doesn't matter. The vote and support of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the minister who deeply disagreed with it and broke it to solve one problem, to enable them, it's a smaller group of people, up to 10,000, I don't even know if there are so many, but it's a message that we send to those who regularly finish colleges, I don't know what we're telling them. I'm just saying, since I'm saying, I'm going to start saying everything that's in my heart and I'm not going to be politically correct anymore, but I'm just saying because it's not popular and because we're going to be attacked because of this, the autonomy of the university is broken. It's broken. Dot. Here's what I'm gonna sign, put me on a pillar of shame, wherever they want in the media. It is a scandal that took place a few days ago, that a group of students belonging to the political group "One of the Five Million" fell into the recession and took over and blackmailed the state, blackmailing the government of the Republic of Serbia to meet something that had occurred to them that the government had fulfilled. It's certainly meant to be a violation of university autonomy. A flagrant example, another can't be. The state has to be wise in this case, to follow what's going on there, but "One out of five million" have one special tactics on how to hit their country, which is to attack soft tissue, where everyone is sensitive, and that's education. It's the easiest thing to manipulate adult people who study, means education, attack science, attack that resort. Unfortunately, you're covering both portfolios, so it's really not easy for you, but count on Parliament's support. We are the ones who represent the citizens of Serbia who do not fall into the Dictionary and who take science seriously, not what we have the opportunity to read occasionally in some media. That's where they create some of their nukes that once, when we formed the parties, they called themselves a meat committee. They create local committees within educational institutions, within the framework of scientific institutions and, of course, culture as something that no matter who runs the cultural resort, those who are against Alexander Vukic, who are against the Government of the Republic of Serbia, they attack these three soft resistors, which are education, science and culture. Follow only what is happening at the same time in "Ateleu 212", because he has set up a new manager, forgetting that Dragan Gilas has replaced Kokan Mladenov as the director of the theatre "Atelje 212" because he has something against the members of the ensemble acting in "Ateleu 212". It is forgotten, and it is equally respected by the founder of “Atelje 212” because of the appointment of a new administrator. So, follow the Government of the Republic of Serbia, a policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia that has decided to extend the deadline to the old students, but, please, remember our discussions which we deeply believe should be interrupted with this practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-19-0.u61074	The People's Messenger, Michaelo Jokic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-19-0.u61075	There is a minister, and I think the minister will agree with me that the primary task of the educational process is to allow every student, every student, to progress according to their abilities. We have a frontal form of teaching, a group form of teaching and an individual form of teaching. We had a situation that we had 45 students in our departments, and you know it's optimal 25 to be the one that says the frontal form of work, but we were trying, this is all you're doing, introducing new technology, new organizations, textbooks, etc. It is all with one goal to allow the student to progress according to his abilities and that the teacher, the teacher, the teacher, the mentor, appears only at the moment when he comes to an obstacle he cannot overcome alone. When we did that, then we achieved what we wanted, the educational process. This component was raised in 2000, when a new Law on Fundamental, Medium, Higher and Higher Education was adopted. Let's not go back to what it was. Everyone you've discussed is right, so we understand each other. This amendment is fine. Everyone needs to be made available. This cannot be forbidden to anyone, but at this point, so every moment has its own solution, the best solution is this – suggest that it be extended by two years. Every reunion, every student, every student is talking to himself. As many students as there are students, there are so many stories. At this point, I support the government's proposal. Why? Because these two years will be the motivation for many of them to do so and need the problem, which is not seen, ministers, to look at and see the effects after a year, after two years of what was done on that plan. I say, once again, we must in the educational process allow everyone to move towards their abilities, according to their abilities, and then this educational process has achieved its goal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-19-0.u61076	The word is made by Minister Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-19-0.u61077	Dear People's MP, let me speak to you personally, of course, that approach should be nurtured. We had a good education system and we were satisfied with it, where everything was in place, so things happened. There is a need for every candidate, whether a student or student, to have a developed self-awareness of learning. Only then will we be a seriously developed society, and this must instill both school and family.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-19-0.u61078	Thank you. The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to the 1st Amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Comrade Seselj, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-19-0.u61079	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. First of all, listening to all this today, we can draw different conclusions. It's being put here as a problem, it's sending warnings to all the students who, therefore, signed up before 2005, right now, that this is the last deadline, that it should end as soon as possible, that the more states will not go out, etc. I don't understand a few things. First of all, the arguments we heard, first of all, from Professor Atlagic, says – not to learn about school, but to learn about life. I guess everybody's studying for themselves, not for that school or anything else, just for themselves. He can either not study or study for himself or finish or not finish. What does that have to do with it, and how does this study have an impact on anything around it? What difference does it make? He's learning for life, so let everyone live their lives and study as much as he wants and whether he wants to or not. What's that even costing the state? Here, Mrs Malusic says – yes, anyone can, but the question is, how productive is who in 65 years or 60 years, a student. I am now interested in an absurdity to explain, please, if, indeed, no one in 60 or 65 years is productive, that this argument comes from the SNS and their MPs whose former president has graduated from the university in 60 years. So, Tomislav Nikolic. How was he productive? Can it be explained how productive Mr Tomislav Nikolic was for him to finish college in 60 years? (Alexander Martinovic: You'd better finish college too.) Why didn't you say something about it, Mr. Sarcevic? Here, let's ask Professor Ljubisa Stojmirovic. Something throws Martinovic, I don't understand anything... (Alexander Martinovic: You better finish college too.) )......................................................................................................... but can it be explained how Tomislav Nikolic got to the diploma? Mr. Martinovic, I'm 25, I'm not 60. It's an honor, but unlike you, Mr. Martinovic, I've never done anything that would be academically perhaps dishonest. In 25 years I published three scientific papers in magazines in Serbia, serious magazines and all of them different, unlike your scientific papers, which are all the same, and not just headlines. So, please, Mr. Martinovic, you may not be the right person for this debate right now, but my main argument here is very controversial, especially that in this whole absurdity, where everyone says - every honor to you, Mr. Minister, for your position and we support it, but we will vote differently... What does that mean, then? What does it mean that we're listening here to individual experiences of MPs, I know this one, I know the one who's finished? I absolutely don't get it. So, you're making one question out of this now that shouldn't be so important at all. It should be an entirely individual thing, without any government regulations, absolutely cost no dinars to the state, even those students contribute. Let everyone live their lives. Don't make up any boundaries here and move on.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-19-0.u61080	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-19-0.u61081	The role of parliament is otherwise to discuss the bill's proposals and MPs to make their views known, so that the discussion cannot mark the problem and that someone is creating a problem with the discussion. So he's discussing the amendment and addition of the law that we have before us. You must've thought about my discussion, too, if you didn't, I recognized myself for making examples out of life. You didn't think of me, well, then it's similar. Of course we present examples of life, because the law applies to Serbian citizens and Serbian citizens have their own lives, and we are going to meet a group of Serbian citizens who are studying according to the old programme. Of course, then, we present examples of the lives of those who have successfully mastered and completed all obstacles, difficulties in their lives. No one talked today about people 65 years old not being productive. Yes, you did not understand Mrs Malusic, she did not speak in a permissive sense. But let me tell you right now, I'm 56 and I'm much less productive than 46, and it's perfectly natural. This was about studies, and that's why after her discussion, I explained what other countries are doing, so they don't have higher students, but they have universities, or I'm sorry, colleges for the third time. And you're saying that someone's study has nothing to do with society. That absolutely doesn't stand. So, the question, who's funding these studies and who's giving it to a teacher who teaches at the department, holds the department, teaches an object that's been abolished by law, or new education programs? Well, state, to the most extent state. And it's normal to discuss it here, because it's a whole society thing, not an individual thing, how you tried to show it. It's an individual who wants to finish or doesn't want to finish a school when he's done with the basics of the law. Studies aren't mandatory. Someone crosses that obstacle, and someone never gets over it. It's one of life's challenges, regular study also forms as a human being, whether you can skip or fall on some obstacle, life takes you in another direction, or judge yourself that you simply don't need a diploma. That's what we were talking about. I hope that still MPs can speak the way they want to speak. We will support Minister Sarcevic's proposal, a proposal from the government of the Republic of Serbia, and we deeply believe that they have seen this problem and that this is why they suggest to us MPs, who support the government's work, to support them by voting, but our right to say our opinion, that with this practice, one day we must stop. Every year, we meet the same group of students to extend them one more time, to extend it one more time, to extend it one more time. So, of course, a respected colleague, one day he has to stop doing this practice. It is our turn to say this now, not to be surprised next September, when the same problem comes before the new assembly of parliament. What happens every year is, the first week of September, the first week of school workers strike, so on the first week of September, we have an education workers strike, and so I don't know, 30 last years, and we have in the last, I don't know, 10 years, to extend the deadlines. So one serious state must one day underline this and say, from now on, not with all respect to people who have, as you say, problems. I don't think this whole group of people has any insurmountable problems in their lives that they can't finish one college under the old program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-19-0.u61082	Right on line, colleague Ljiljana Malušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-19-0.u61083	Thank you, Your Honor. Mr. Minister with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as for our former president, Mr. Tomislav Nikolic, he graduated from college while he was in a radical party under one. Two, no one says people aren't productive at 65. No, on the contrary, what's he going to do, who's going to finish college, and he hasn't done anything until he's 65 years old, to contribute to society in 65? In particular, the crowd of people has more schools, people work, some are directors, they do business, they have families, and then they finish colleges. I guess they've had enough after three extensions, to extend their fourth trip and end in two years and two years they miss. Since the Radical Party fell apart, as our former president of the state, Mr Tomislav Nikolic figured out that there was a little more entrenchedness, so he might be much better off making a new party that he did, which has 55% rating. Without bad intentions, I'd be happy to support the bill, but I think the state is paying for the studies. My people, the mass of students is on the budget and it's paid by the state. Five thousand dinars cost a stay at home. There is no country in the world that cares so much about its students as the Republic of Serbia. The meal is two thousand and something, so let's talk about these students. We've given these students a deadline, we're going to give them another one, and the point of the whole story is to force young people, that these people who had problems give them both a chance and a point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-19-0.u61084	Comrade Atlagic, slowly, right on the line, MP Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-19-0.u61085	Thank you, Your Honor. I have no intention of plowing. So it wouldn't be misunderstood because of my fellow professors and educators, what I said, what one of the speakers said, we're not studying, and I'm saying, for school, but for life, it's a pedagogical course in pedagogy. What does that mean? Exactly what the minister is carrying out, digitisation and up-to-date of curricula and programmes. For example, old curriculas throughout history, when it comes to the ecology and protection of the human environment. We've been doing it through our curricula by inserting two hours, and now I remember, every year, and we've connected it to the teaching content. It is one of the largest, pedagogical directions that is today the strongest, that is what Mr. Minister and the Government of the Republic of Serbia implement, and initiated by the President of the Republic. That's the point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-19-0.u61086	Right on line, MP Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-19-0.u61087	Mr. Arsic, I am very sorry that Mrs. Gojkovic is no longer in the O.R. So, I heard that well, but first of all, the students who enrolled in 2005 are still studying, so they're not on the budget, I guess. Every year, in order to get out or not go to those exams at all, they have to pay something in relation to these items, some money. So they don't cost the state anything at all. That's exactly what Mrs Malusic said, as I quoted her, but in the meantime she probably forgot about the productivity of the former SNS president and his year of study. Now someone's falling apart and... (The People's MP, Aleksandar Martinovic, throws it away. ) Mr. Martinovic, I'm saying some things that you said the same thing about a long time ago, so I don't know what the problem is right now. Mr. Sarcevic said that they should set an example now, that the government should set an example for all students as it should be. Where's a better example than Tomislav Nikolic? There's hope for everything, and in 60 years, no one should give up, it can end. After all, all those students who entered before 2005 and who knows when and who are the majority have a great chance of one day becoming presidents of Serbia. That's why you need to support them. Here, there is Mr Ljubisa Stojmirovic, I agree with him today, with his presentation, let's see how it happened. Indeed, this is not even about meeting someone and doing a favor, this is common sense. There's absolutely no need, there's no cost on the side of the state, there's simply no need to be the right choice, everyone has to decide if they will, whether they're not going to study, whether they want to give up, it's his individual right and the state shouldn't have anything to do with it, especially if it doesn't cost anything and that student is still funding colleges and universities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-19-0.u61088	The People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophet, has the right to replicate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-19-0.u61089	I don't really know why my colleague Malusic is so angry, I don't know why she's doing it that way. We're completely sober, we're talking normally, we're making arguments. Thank God our arguments differ from yours, I guess that makes sense. But now she's trying to say she didn't say something she did, she said. But now that she wanted to defend herself from saying I couldn't be, as she said, productive people who finish college at 60 and 65, she said. When she was mentioned by that former party president and his study, or his diploma, which you have never questioned before, his public recognition that he does not know what his thesis is called, etc., it was all something that was part of this society, part of this system. But you had to, colleague Arsic, you know it well and you've always reacted, we're not a radical party, I don't know if there's any such party registered in the party register. We are the Serbian Radical Party, and we insist that in our official address, MPs refer to us exactly as they do, and we ask the chairmans to react every time something like that is said, when it is said otherwise. One more thing, the SRS didn't fall apart, colleague Malusic, you see us. The way we fell apart, we're sitting here. We have a parliamentary group, the largest opposition group. We have a program that we've now quoted, which was brought in, just naturally innovated, about some time past, which we brought in when the party was formed. The Serbian Radical Party may have been someone's idea of falling apart and disappearing, but I am sorry, the one who was the bearer of the idea, is nowhere but Dedinj in the villa for 5,000 euros a month, how much the citizens of Serbia cost.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-19-0.u61090	The People's MP Vladimir Orlic has the right to reply, to mention the party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-19-0.u61091	On several occasions, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think it is really necessary that, if possible, we make this debate as serious as possible, when we talk about issues that are really arguments. It's really hard for someone to say -- it's not at all necessary to consider whether someone should pass exams that are no longer organised, whether someone who needs to lay down matter that doesn't even surrender anymore can generate any additional cost and that's one of the important notes that we have. You see for yourself, based on the bill that we're going to vote for, we want to show maximum understanding, we want every man to have a chance, even when we think it's gone beyond some of the frameworks of what we consider a good practice. We always will, it's not a question of will. Let's talk a little bit more about meaning. Can anyone say because a man paid his tuition, so that man automatically kicked out every possible cost that applies to and perhaps some items that no longer exist, some programs that have been completed, kicked out of that practice, high school institutions 10, 20, 30, 40 years ago. You want to talk theoretically, then everything in theory is possible. Now we need to find someone to deal with these things. Where are, for example, by the way, test obligations? If anyone, for example. It takes an individual to organize a laboratory exercise, according to a program that was abandoned 30 years ago, can anyone put their hand in the fire? These are costs that are impossible, that's something that must be covered. We're just talking about these things, we really need to take care and never lose sight of what makes sense. These are our notes. It's the first call to get serious. The other certainly refers to what is now also the subject of adjudication, and this is a matter of personal relationship and the need for one to be dealt with personally with by one of us and that doesn't make much sense. But if we're talking about seriousness and if someone is trying to make fun of the case of former Serbian President Tomislav Nikolic, let me remind you. A man did graduate at a time when he was vice president of the SRS. Is that what you're talking about with a mockery? If that's what you're talking about with a mockery, ask yourself what wasn't funny to you back then. Ask yourself what was quite right for you at the time, so you may come to the conclusion that you are actually honest about these things you are saying. We'll talk about this if we need more. But another note, and in the spirit of my call to get serious. Anyone who wants to talk about education and the scientific works of Aleksandar Martinovic must finish many, many more schools, have to pass many tests, to start not to be an imperfect student, but also then to continue to work a lot, in order to be able to compare with Aleksandar Martinovic at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-19-0.u61092	The People's MP Ljiljana Malušić has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-19-0.u61093	Thank you, Chairman. Honorable ministers with co-workers from the ministry, ladies and gentlemen MPs, gentlemen in front of the SRS, I highly respect the democratic discussion. We just don't agree with things here. I'm never really angry, on the contrary, very much respect your attitudes, but the facts are facts. To begin with, our distinguished Mr Tomislav Nikolic was then a presidential candidate and won the presidential election, although he did not have master's or doctoral studies, and the truth is that he graduated from college in your time. So, one. He didn't have a master's or a doctor's. So, you're killing everything for what I said -- up to 65 years old. I was talking about students starting to study and finishing college at 65 years of age doing nothing. This man worked, not just him, but the mass of us, that's the point. Two, you said, my esteemed colleague, that it cost the state nothing to extend college. That's not true. Teachers who go out to ask these students, if there are 10,000, are paid, each deadline is paid. So you're not being directed. I want you to learn a lot more, because you're a very smart, creative young guy. As for Tomislav Nikolic, every good for this man, he's the best. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-19-0.u61094	The People's MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-19-0.u61095	Dear colleagues and colleagues, it is not quite safe whether my colleague Seselj called me and asked me about how the president of Serbia ended and when he graduated from college, but I can answer him, if that was the question – Serbian President Tomislav Nikolic had neither laid down with me nor I had anything to do with when he graduated and where he graduated from college. But if it's about Tomislav Nikolic, a citizen who was a student and laid with me, since we're not very private, I wouldn't talk about it. I just want to point out one fact – he proudly carried his degree and proved in practice that he was a good manager. What's in it for me? He successfully led the SRS as a graduate manager and the SRS achieved the most significant and the greatest results in the period during which it was headed. By crossing and creating SNS, he and the team that was around him created the successful, powerful and now strongest party in Serbia, the party that in 2012, his victory in the presidential elections entered both power and showed that he knows and knows how to rule. As for my friends, friends, brothers and sisters from the U.S.S.S., his departure caused them great damage, and they wanted to confess or refuse to admit, they had one major fall. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-19-0.u61096	The People's MP, Alexander Seselj, has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-19-0.u61097	First of all, I can, and I'll probably learn a lot from you, especially from you, Mrs. Malusic, but I don't think you're informed enough about your party either. So, you said now that he won the elections in front of SNS Tomislav Nikolic, he had no master and doctoral and so on, and we know that he was a master at the time he won, that is, when he won the presidential elections in Serbia. I think at all that his phenomenon, at all, this phenomenon and this study should be enough for the whole debate right now, that we don't have to talk about education any more while there's one such case in Serbia. There's not even ten Mladen Sarčevići can do anything about it. You know, I don't compare to Alexander Martinovic, I absolutely don't care, he compared himself to me and threw it to me. I can study or not study, I can be a folk MP as a farmer, I can be without any calling. I'm studying as much as the current president of the Republic has studied, and we'll probably have the same average. And now what's the problem? I didn't go, maybe I should have gone to Serbian Heidelberg, so-called. In Turkey, maybe I'd be teaching there by now. When we talk about those people who signed up before 2005, so it's costing those teachers to question and it's all right, but these teachers aren't going anywhere else for those exams, they're doing it in those regular deadlines that exist and now, along with all the other students. Well, what difference does it make now, what's that cost? I think there's a real problem out of nothing and there's absolutely no real issue and there's no debate on the real issue, and that's this, in general, Bologna reform that she is and what she's brought to our education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-19-0.u61098	The Right to Replication, the Messenger of the People, the Prophet of the Prophets, and then Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-19-0.u61099	First of all, to be clear, Serbia's radical break from its founding was not led by anyone other than Professor Vojislav Seselj and party bodies. The party authorities were also vice-presidents and vice-presidents and the Presidential College and the Central State Administration and executive bodies and executive district, municipal and local committees. So Tomislav Nikolic never led the SRS. One more thing, make a deal whether he was, whether or not he had finished that college, actually whether or not he had a degree, the university never finished, it's clear. When he last ran as a member of the SRS in 2008, he asked Natasa Jovanovic to bring him documentation from Kragujevac, which is normal, which is necessary for running, but told her to see him there in the municipality to enroll him, that his interest was a national MP. Well, then these people there said to the hook, as the Messenger of the people. That's what one of yours has written down now. Then they wrote to him that he was a technician, because that's the only thing he showed in public, what he showed in the party, the only title we knew about. Now, a colleague says, or whoever said, he's made a big party, done us some damage. It is true that in 2008, the SRS was done damage, great damage, that we were quite recovered, we are still recovering and we are persistent in the implementation of our political programme, but SNS did not do Tomislav Nikolic. Remember Parliament Group Advanced Serbia, SRS's stolen mandates, then Boris Tadic's support, the Constitutional Court, Miki Rakic, the US Embassy and made the big party.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-19-0.u61100	Right on line, MP, Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-19-0.u61101	Well, first of all, since I'm saying that we're only talking about goodwill, I want to start with what's positive in the last three or four minutes in this debate. It's positive that we see that no longer speak so confidently of those who claim that the impossible costs are at the expense of the state, among other things. I see they've started to think a little bit about the right direction and that's of course for every praise. It is correct and positive that the imperfect students stopped showing ambition to compare with Aleksandar Martinovic, they realized how pointless this is, in any case, not a wise approach. That's good stuff. Those things that we still need to exchange a word about, and I sincerely hope for this opportunity to divorce absolutely all the misunderstandings. The Serbian Progressive Party was formed by citizens. The Serbian Progressive Party was formed by the people. And, as there are formal founders' signatures, so you have many years now that have been building a number of hardworking people in order for the SNS to win the former regime first in 2012, and she to arrange for Serbia to make it a much better place for life in the years to come. Today, the SNS makes up people who really count for millions, from 700,000 formal members to maybe two or three more times those who vote for it and who love that party with all their heart. That's the answer to your question, who formed and who makes SNS. In these successes that Serbia has achieved in recent years, there is, in each of them, certainly at least one drop of sweat from all these people. And as for the private relationship with former President Tomislav Nikolic by the people of the SRS, once again, if they didn't mind that a man graduated at a time when he was vice president of the SRS, I don't know what's been on their mind and what bothers them about the year 2012. They say here now, we thought he graduated while he was with us, but we don't think he graduated the moment he led a successful SNS that won between us and them, such failures. And, they say, in 2012 and beyond, we believe that Tomislav Nikolic never graduated, and before we thought it was okay. And they say since 2012, they continue to believe that for them Tomislav Nikolic is a construction technician, or so he was. Maybe that's where we come into the essence of the problem, the party that's being led, as it is said, by the university professor, the professor, the doctor, and himself as the bearer of that party in the election, the doctor, in your opinion, won at the time, and it was beaten to the feet by a construction technician, and then I realize what pains you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-19-0.u61102	In accordance with Article 112, I'm setting a five-minute break. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a Messenger of the people, Sreto Peric. Comrade Peric, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-19-0.u61104	Mr. Minister, you remember that I said when there was a debate in the principle that you are here reluctantly, not because you want to be like that, but simply the subject is that you don't like it. I also said that your position regarding this Law extending the deadline for old students, that is, all those who had enrolled before 2005, regardless of whether they were regular students, were those who enrolled master's studies or the defense of doctoral dissertation. We have quite enough arguments to keep this deadline unarmed. First of all, it is in the legal theory, it is also in legal practice, because in order for something to be done, it must be known at the time of its adoption how and what conditions it will be when it is applied. Although a large number of colleagues here, also right, said counterpart Jokic, giving our permissive attitude towards children and the like. Citing some examples - and what about those who were extremely good students, they had a high average? I guess that's pride and praise for them. You see, some of them are already docents, some of them are regular professors at different colleges, and some are still studying. It should be allowed, it's their right, it's their thing. A Serbian radical party may object to much, but no one can ever say, or can say, but he will not be right to say that we are courting anyone. One of my colleagues knows when it was the Restitution Act. It's a rather painful topic for Serbian citizens, we said at the time that we were against the law. We're people of principle, the party has its own program, principled and that's how it's always gonna be. There was now talk here that when Minister Sarcevic studied, there were four exams, and now there are 12 deadlines examined. When Minister Sarcevic studied many of us, then there were about 2% of people in Serbia with colleges. Today seven, eight, ten with the intensity to be and more, I guess that's normal, that's nothing abnormal. There's one thing, Mr. Minister, you're responsible, I don't mean literally, but responsible for every preschooler, student, student for all people who are educated in any system, and so is this student. But it's impossible that you couldn't have had as much information as there really are those students. As far as we Serbian radicals are concerned, it doesn't matter to us at all, the principle is important. But we could have had that information. You get a lot of information about the state of the education system, and that's normal to get. A simple question, that's what you get, if it wasn't for you, and Mr. Tubic could have. You do your job, you don't have to ask the minister by the law that set you up where you are, you can ask the university for an exact number of conditions. The question is, what do colleges want to get? Maybe they want to translate these students into a system of study in Bologna, and then there's the high-school scholarships and stuff. He's in some colleges right now. If it were at all, I'd say it's a rule. The index is paid. Watch out, index, document, 6,000, about 7,000 and so on, other colleges don't pay for it. Maybe some colleges, ministers, and they're sending you the wrong information in order to secure more funds from those students who have been studying for a long time. What do they do when they're out of college, who's 60, 65? I say they go to Andric's wedding. Let's not go until 2022, there's a president elected, and then let them go there, because we have a practice of that too. I guess every man is proud when he graduates from college, high school, or any degree of education, is proud of his family, even his parents, if he has them. That's all one man's hiding. If it was all right and regular, why was it hiding? It wasn't even one reason to hide it. It would be good, Mr. Minister, I'm almost certain, although I can't quite say that some parliament and some minister are going to think this over and over again, because they're going to be able to analyze, they're going to be able to see the real reasons that we don't have the right to forbid someone from study. What's he gonna do? To become a graduate lawyer, economist, electric engineer or something else, that's what he's thinking. The state is obliged to comply with the law itself which has passed, i.e. certain institutions. Better what you suggest and what you vote for than what would happen to the people who entered before 2005, because they would practically lose any hope with October 1st or a chance to start colleges. There should have been proactive activity, i.e. to be proactive and colleges, and these people who study. We have no reason to defend you where they're wrong, but if you claim there aren't a thousand of them, then it wasn't a problem to send them a memo, so who wants to come to a conversation to see and how many there are and what the problems are and to solve it. If these amendments were accepted, this problem would be the point. No one expects the state to deal with them, I guess it shouldn't, but they're just looking for equal terms. Now that someone's been better and for a short time, and he's had some use for it, but it's also prestigious when someone says, "I've been getting tens in college, I'm done for a shorter period than I was supposed to be." We in our parliamentary group had several such ones. It is certainly for the pride of their own, even of society in general, and certainly also of the parliamentary groups to which they belong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-19-0.u61105	The word is from a colleague of Studenka Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-19-0.u61106	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens, respected ministers, above all, nor are anyone being defended here to study, nor are we talking about how many years someone's enrolled in college, we're talking about the length of the studies. As I said in the principle debate on this subject, we are willing to extend deadlines to old students, to allow them to complete these studies under the old programme. For two more years, they have been given this amendment of the law, and I note that this is the fifth time that this deadline is extended and that some of them can make a big contribution to this society. It is also taken into account that by the end of their studies several tests remained and that, for personal reasons, such as family design or some other living circumstances, they failed to complete the studies. However, lifting deadlines will not contribute to the completion of all these students' colleges. In fact, I think it's going to be the opposite. I repeat, everything in life has a deadline. Why would obtaining formal education be an exception to that? If anyone wants to finish anything, it starts with a decision within what time limit they'll do it. It can be influenced by unforeseen living circumstances, so these deadlines can be moved. All right, no problem, here's the law moving deadlines and giving an additional deadline to finish the study. Whoever is truly resolved will take advantage of this extension and will end up starting if he has not already used the previous four revenues, but indeed somewhere he must break up with this practice and admit that there is no point in studying indefinitely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-19-0.u61107	Right on line, MP Sreto Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-19-0.u61108	You're saying everything has a deadline, and I don't think love has a deadline, but, well, now let's not deal with that nice subject but something more serious. The reason for not accepting this amendment – because it is a more comprehensive solution proposed by the Government. I'd say that's a more restrictive solution. Cellistic is something meaningful, responsible, something small and flexible, and the restrictive here is exactly what it is. We've heard a lot of reasons here why someone's been studying longer than usual, than maybe it's average for a while and we don't get into those reasons at all. We should, dear colleagues, get a little bit more into argument and respect the arguments of both ourselves and others. I've seen some applause here. When his colleague Martinovic spoke, he spoke of our weaknesses as a parent, and I accept that. It's in practice like that. Then some applauded when he even said that to children he should be, I'm putting under quotes, a little rougher. God forbid that the SRS or anyone else suggested that such a system of education should be applied, then the various protectors of society, the rights of children, and the rest would appear there. We know that it was through our lives and what the minister was talking about, that we kissed the elderly in hand, it was one system of respect. If today, but not just there in the family, but here too a little respect and respect, everything would be different. I think it would be even better. Not bad when someone has an absolute majority, but sometimes that creates a problem. You're burdened, dear colleagues, by over 51%. That's enough to rule alone, and that's basically giving completely negative results. A good man is hard to break. Not all are corrupt, but the desire for 50% and more than 50% of all things has brought us power, even in your own party. It wouldn't be bad for you to question it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-19-0.u61109	Right on line, MP Studenka Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-19-0.u61110	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I agree that we should respect the arguments. We've appreciated those arguments. They've been respected four times in the past. This is the fifth time. But we have to be realistic and admit that here at least this is about these real life circumstances. Maybe that's the case with a number of old students, but we also have to admit that it's both laziness and irresponsibility and that maybe they're having a hard time deciding to give up something. Sometimes in life you have to give up something. If you see that it's not going, it's not going, give up, find another way of life. It's simple, it's life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-19-0.u61111	The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-19-0.u61112	Thank you. What the SNS manages is a relationship to the better life of every citizen of the Republic of Serbia and to meet their real-time needs. What I want to stress, and what these amendments and additions of the Higher Education Act bring, is in fact the establishment of a legal framework in order to give the students who entered the studies a chance to complete those studies according to the plan and programme that was in force at the time. Dear gentlemen, they were due to complete their studies in 2011. So they were given a six-year term. It's 2019 today. So it's people over 35, who started studies maybe even before in 2005 and who must be somewhere in the fourth, fifth decade of their lives right now. We don't want them to be limited to their education. We're giving them a chance here that those in the next two years and start studying will end if, of course, they have a wish, because education is a two-sided process. Education is a question of both state and higher education institutions, but also a question of student desire and motivation whether they want to complete their studies. Higher education does not fall into the order of education that is required under the law. You know, among these students, there's probably those who don't have a wish anymore, or the motivation to start your studies, but I have to say something about a relationship to education. Education is one process and it involves work, responsibility, commitment to work and results, and the result of higher education is passing exams, learning, work, full commitment to what needs to be learned and of course there is a result, and the result is a diploma that is obtained afterwards. Of course education has that educational function in it, too. I am pleased that since 2012, this educational function has been restored to the education system, but what is important for the education system and how important family education is. Family education is something that each of us brings to both elementary and high school and college and tomorrow to work. Family education, and of course education is what we introduce and in our relationship to work, attitude to achievements, relationship to other colleagues, relationship to life in general. I must also point out that since 2012, since the arrival of SNS to power, many reforms have been carried out in the education system. Dear gentlemen, we are today to prepare generations for the 21st century. It is a completely different way of education and a different curricula and programme from the 2005 curriculum. Certainly, we are to give students a chance and through voting for this law we will give that chance, because SNS is the well-being of a man in the first place.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-19-0.u61113	The word is from the MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-19-0.u61114	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. I just want to make a little contribution. I think that in this debate we should also touch the current developments in the Rectorate building, because they say they're students, and we're discussing students today and some of them probably are, but what we discussed in the principle debate, of course, opposition televisions have transmitted differently. For example, N1 television. They conveyed in the sense that we now from this place, for God's sake, are defending students from politics. That is not true, but what is true is that there are representatives of political organisations in the project, that the whole story includes politicians from the Alliance for Serbia, that their demands are of a political nature, not requirements relating to students and studies, that they are presented as students and only as students, and not as "1 out of 5 million" and that they have made demands that are not political, we would not discuss them in such a way. No one challenges them the right to deal with politics or to conform to any political option, but this abuse of students and abuse of institutions is simply not good. That's how college autonomy is disrupted. That only reminds us of the attack on RTS, which was also a political act with other requirements. So, to understand what we're talking about, and it's very clear that, of course, N1 television will be all twisted again to attack us, to attack Alexander Vukic and SNS, to criticize us. Imagine how it works when one of these TVs is said in a tent in the Rectorate "bravo" or "so should" or "just keep going". So, they knowingly undermine the system and education and the state, because what they're doing in the recession is a crime, and supporting someone in committing a crime is also a criminal offense, except it's a scandal and it's absolutely inadmissible behavior. Regardless of the state's reactions, I would still call on the state authorities from this place to act in accordance with the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-19-0.u61115	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-19-0.u61116	First of all, there's only one sentence related to these events in the record. You've been complaining to us here for days that there's something illegal going on over there, that some people are sitting there, that they've taken over the Rectorate, some people who aren't students. It's obvious that when those videos are seen that it is, but we don't understand why you're talking about it here, why don't the authorities solve this case? Why don't the competent authorities leave and triage - who's a student can stay, who isn't, please, to get out? Then you're telling us to talk demagogue. You would not mind this Alliance for Serbia, as they are called, and allow them to create such incident situations and do no favours to students, colleges, university, or minister after all, but well, I hope you'll solve it, you're smart. As far as this bill is concerned, this particular amendment and all amendments are concerned, the government's argument is why it does not accept our amendments fascinatingly. In one sentence the government says - the amendment is rejected since the solution in the bill is more consistent. I'll explain now that it's not more celery. Do you know why? First of all, because of the fact that we will have the same session in two years and be sure that it will be so because these students who are here and we have started calling them "old students", students who study longer for these or those reasons, not all of us will now, as amended in two years' time, meet our obligations and will not finish colleges. Now it's calculated whether it's three, four, or ten thousand. In two years, it will be a matter of whether there are a thousand, two or five thousand. Someone here even said, maybe someone would never finish college, but if you accepted our amendments, ministers, or you congregational majority, and if there were no longer this deadline that obliges someone to start this school year, then that problem would no longer exist in society or in education, in the education system. It wouldn't exist. Whoever gets to pass the exam, picks up, lays down, who doesn't answer, we won't pull anyone by the sleeve that has to finish what he started, but we're actually jeopardizing human rights, and that's what we're supposed to be talking about here. It's been said here and it costs money to allow someone to study longer, so he pays for that longer study. If you think that's small, raise your tuition. We advocate that regular students study the cost of the state, and now that's not the case, Minister. That's all we say is "it's on the budget" and what? Yeah, he's on the budget, he doesn't pay tuition, he pays everything else. So, what costs because one professor now has to remind himself of another program, I don't know why it would cost? He works for that salary and works. There's been talk here about some, I don't know, special exercises that can appear somewhere, so, I don't know, I don't know, I guess nothing's been going on in college. It's not in chemistry, if we've taken over this bologna system, it hasn't changed anything in chemistry as a science, at least we haven't been informed. Probably in those cabinets everything that was then exists now. I don't know if you're even noticing through this debate, you've actually confirmed what some colleagues who are now in the majority parliamentary group, who were then in the SRS parliamentary group, have fought together against the introduction of the Bologna system, not the order, but the arguments. I think my colleague Martinovic knows that at the time, the DSS MP, who was the bearer, and here, both from our MPs and from your senses, DOS has introduced a Bologna system. Yes, it was part of the DOS, but it was introduced by the government of Vojislav Kostunica, the fine government, the best government, and now it wants to be presented by the government of Vojislav Kostunica... (Alexander Martinovic: Slobodan Vuksanovic. ) Slobodan Vuksanovic, that's right. I don't want to mention the name of the professor, your colleague, and you know who I'm talking about, he was an MP, a professor in Novi Sad, who came to our MP group to help us write amendments together and to get us to do everything possible not to accept that Bologna system. So the problem is, and the problem is that you ministers are also aware of how bad it is to study, but we don't understand why you don't cut? Why don't you say so – we won't do it anymore, we're going back in the traditional way of studying, and then we'll solve this problem that Mr. Martinovic was talking about, about three student deadlines, etc. What's now, this papazian, is all about this Bologna way of studying, which is catastrophic, which has been given up by many countries in the West, which doesn't even exist in Bologna, but you know, we love everything we're offered, so come on, whatever you say, we'll accept. Believe that the solution to many problems would be in sight and possible if you rolled up your sleeves at the Ministry and nicely, I don't think you have to overwrite 100% of what was up to "Bolonia", but to arrange a serious system, which will also respect academic titles, which will respect both the knowledge and the general culture and the national spirit of that education and our letter and our language. We're all missing it. You know, that's how long it's been since you, people with colleges, just don't know what to say to them. These are people of a very low level of knowledge. I don't want to offend anyone right now, but that's a fact. I don't want to offend anyone if such a system, he wrote it down, studied it, even a good student, ended up on a high average, but he doesn't have the basic knowledge of a real, real, real, real academic citizen. And I think you have to agree that it is. We have to deal with it. That's the problem. It's not a problem for three, four or five thousand students we've been discussing for two days. And it's no problem that we're discussing, but I'm telling you, their problem would be solved, and generally our problem, in a way that we don't give them any restrictions, so let them study until they're willing. We're not here, as we're told and transferred, that we've spoken and found a thousand and one reason why someone hasn't graduated from college, nor have we said that we have an understanding for someone if they study for 15 or 20 years, nor have we said that it's good, nor have we said what reason it should be relevant for someone to respect it, someone doesn't respect it. No, I don't. We said -- basic human rights is guaranteed by the Constitution that everyone must be educated under the same conditions. We can't because this Vuksanovic and that Kostunica government came to mind in 2005 that the tubes turn everything in our education system, that now some people who, now, want to finish colleges, whenever they start, let's say -- you can't now, you have to go to "Bolonja" or I don't know what. It just can't. It can't be legal, it can't be constitutional. And this is no address to that group of students either. I said in some debate today -- we who think, actually you who are going to vote for this, in some way support, you're giving a team so-called. The old students to finish college in two years, and all we want is to get that line off. Students who study regularly, if they're watching this, they'll say, well, wait, what do I do when they let someone graduate from college 20 years later? But it's not a matter of personal speaking, and it's not a matter of courtship or disdain. Simply, the state must take care of the constitutional rights of every man, every citizen of the Republic of Serbia. Why does someone want to study? We didn't use any pathetic stories, and we got all those letters. There were also weak-sighted students, sick students, students who died members of the family who supported them, and they formed their own families, so they had to focus on a different and second part of their lives. We didn't force and bring any of it out here. We said, even if the state had to make it possible for everyone to finish college, even if it was a hobby radio. Here, look at the Internet. You have our man who graduated from school at 88. Well, he wanted to finish college. You have an example of a man, a German, from an ultra-rich family, he didn't have to do anything in his life, he worked as a tourist guide, and he graduated from a hobby of three colleges. Should the state have told him - what do you need it for? As it turns out here, what's a college going to do with this age or so? Let's just ask ourselves, what's going to happen to college doctors at 24 when they're already two or three years old at the employment office? That's a bigger problem. Someone was saying from the government that we should have fun with that problem. That certainly is a problem. No one's saying that whoever finished college in 20 years should have a priority in employment. It's an employer thing. Did someone already work with an employer and after 20 years he shows up with a degree, maybe he was happy with his job job and he'll say, "Now I'm gonna pay you as a graduate because you're a college graduate." The other one will say, when this guy shows him his degree -- which I don't care, I don't care if you want to do what you've been doing, if you're not going to ask for that degree job somewhere else. When we elected judges in one session, we presented concrete examples and you had candidates for judges who voted in the ruling majority, who studied nine, ten, 11 or 12 years. Well, then we also reacted and said it was inappropriate, that someone who's been studying for 12 years, whatever the circumstances, he has a dose of irresponsibility in his behavior. Whoever has a dose of irresponsibility in their behavior can't be a judge. Well, then the MPs told us -- how can you so, it's a personal matter for everyone, maybe he studied longer because he was sick, maybe because he got married, married, got kids, etc. So when you need these arguments to solve individual cases, then you go out with those arguments. And when we make those arguments to solve a single problem in general and never discuss it again, then you say we're populists and I don't know what. I ask you, when we're here two years from now to discuss it and when we quote you what you said today, who you are here, will you be uncomfortable? Don't, people, and now we've remembered, the longer we've been in the National Assembly, you see how often we remember what someone used to say. We can now, and without looking, quote many colleagues. That's what's gonna happen after this. That is why it is not good that you did not accept our amendments, because nothing, which is the worst thing, would be bad for anyone in Serbia if these amendments were accepted. There would be absolutely nothing wrong or worse than what is now. I really need to comment on a few discussions that were in the previous part before Arsic abruptly interrupted the debate. One colleague said that what someone has been studying for so long is, among other things, the consequence of the fact that Serbs are sloppy and careless. That's inappropriate. It's possible that among these students who haven't finished college in 10, 12, 15 years there are both sloppy and reckless, but you can't say that we as a people are like that, you just don't go to say it. Before I round this story about this, Minister, for you, a specific question. When we spoke in principle, you mentioned something, but I'm not sure I heard you correctly - does the view that you, as a ministry, will give a recommendation to the colleges that these "bolons" don't have to re-enlist or what's the matter? It's good to confirm that these people know it's true. It was said here today that someone attacked you. I don't know if it was in some media. I didn't notice anything because you said you wouldn't, so now you want to back this up. We from the SRS didn't attack you on that subject. We just put out the fact that on August 12th, you said this wasn't going to happen, and in the meantime it happened. Well, we'll also talk to colleagues who now say that two years of hats, the end, there's no further, when in two years they have to discuss it again. Then somebody's gonna say it again -- now we're gonna be one year, two, three, or I don't know how many. We are, therefore, inviting you, not too late yet, to accept this amendment by Natasha Jovanovic, it is unique, because it includes an entire member who is actually changing and to solve the problem of these students, as far as we are concerned, the National Assembly, your Ministry, the state, the university, and whether they will study, their will.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-19-0.u61117	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. Nejko Jovanovic, I assume by amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-19-0.u61118	Thank you, Vice President. Given that the reasons for the amendment's proposal had one broader context than all that is the subject of the debate, relating to the amendments and additions to this law, I will make only one brief addition on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group. The question of justification of the introduction of the Bologna concept of study, i.e. the acquisition of higher education, has been raised here. Of course, that question makes sense, because if the time has been analysed since Bologna was introduced to this day, one other question is rightly asked, and that is – is this Bologna concept acceptable to us, did it produce the corresponding positive consequences that we expected and ultimately, is this a better concept of education than the one we had before Bologna? My personal position in this regard is unequivocally clear, not only because I want to be a traditionalist, but because I believe that there used to be far better values and a better system of values, and even in the process of education, I believe that Bologna did not justify what it was introduced for, although it has its positive indicators. In that sense, I understand the esteemed colleague when she opened that question and I understand when she expressed concern about what would happen in two years, after the deadline that we will vote on as a deadline for the extension of the study to senior students. Honestly, I don't want to be a future meeting, I don't know if we're going to be in this conference, whether there's going to be anyone else, what kind of Parliament's format at that time, so, in two years' time, but certainly I wouldn't want to, and certainly, I don't want this issue to re-emerge on the agenda of the session of the Republic of Serbia's Assembly, precisely for those reasons that the SPS parliamentary group today pointed out, which is that we can't tolerate multiple studies. I don't have any statistical data, and I'm sorry, I don't know if anyone's been dealing with these statistical issues, how many of the majority students of those who are supported persons, which means they're neither employed, nor made income outside of work, nor are they engaged in any way in terms of employment, but they live on the mangers of their parents, they have over 40, 45 years of life. Let's not talk about the productivity we've already talked about. The question arises – how can these not be the cost of the state? These are persons who, if they had devoted themselves to education, especially higher education, would have become useful members of society and the social community by now, would have obtained revenues from which the corresponding revenues would have been made by the state, in terms of filling the budget through contributions from pension-inhabited insurance. What do we have from these so-called so-called. Supported faces? Nothing but damage, nothing but depriving the budget from where the budget could and had to be filled. What do we have of those who spend the family budgets of their parents who can be relaxed, if not for that burden? What do we have of those who don't literally do anything to help this country and that this country can benefit from them? I'm just asking a question - what is the number of such senior students who have this status of maintenance persons, without income, without wanting to make any revenue, without any effort or energy in the direction that the state can benefit from them? Unfortunately, there are few of them. Why am I saying this? Because the issue has already been systematically resolved how they can stop this status of senior students, i.e. to eliminate it and to move to a completely different status from which this country would benefit, and this benefit certainly has been expected by the state for a long time. To remind citizens of the legislation. What can I do for you tonight's students? They can switch to study in Bologna, to some similar academic program. Of course, they take the difference of exams, but they can't be on the budget. The second option they can use is to enroll the university at home university, but not related to those they've attended so far. The third option they have is the possibility of transferring to college from one university to another, from Nis, where they are studying Law School, to Kragujevac, where they can also study Law School, but then they are no longer at the heads of their parents, families, then they fit into the system and system regulation. Why don't we apply this and why we're putting off something we don't have to postpone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-19-0.u61119	Thank you. (Miss Radeta: Replica. Do you want a replica? Yeah. ) The word has a People's Messenger, the Prophet of Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-19-0.u61120	It really came out here, because the cause was the amendment that I submitted, and my colleague mentioned it, but there were some strange things here, at the very least, that were heard. First of all, we may not have the right information. He says that these people who haven't graduated from college are under-income. And how do we know that? How do we know they're income-free people? Maybe they've got 20 years of work, maybe they're working, maybe they've got private firms, maybe they're farming on a parenting property. How do we know and we condemn them because they're people without income? Well, unfortunately, we still have a lot of unemployed, highly educated people on the labour market who are not of their own free will, people without income, and we've finished colleges on time and with a good average. A colleague also said that those people who have not finished colleges are not useful members of society. That's offensive. Does this mean that anyone who hasn't graduated from college isn't a useful member of society? It is, in its own way, in some other way. It's not just a diploma that proves he's a useful member of society. I don't know how you need to treat us completely anonymous people in such an offensive way. He says they're supported faces? How do we know they're supported faces? Well, probably when they were face-supported, while moms and dads were paying, they were learning, and then suddenly moms and dads couldn't pay anymore, and then they weren't face-supported anymore, they were supporting themselves, they were supporting their families. Maybe there's some total punks sitting in front of those stores or drinking or gambling or I don't know, but it's not the subject of our debate or this bill. He says they're spending their parents' money, so your father's name, we're gonna run somebody's parents' money from here? What's that remark, spending their parents' money? The parents might be the ones who want to be the victim of their children, they've been making money their whole lives, and they say here's your son, daughter, study until you're done, even if it's 50 years, I'll fund everything. Is that a problem for us too? Unbelievable.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-19-0.u61121	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. Neđa Jovanovic, right on the line. Here you go. And George Komlensky called, I assume, by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-19-0.u61122	I thank the chairman. It seems that our biggest problem in the course of the session is that we're not listening enough or maybe we're listening carelessly. I was very clear and very precise when I said – I am sorry that I do not have the necessary data, the classical statistical data of how much of the majority of students is the number that literally has the treatment of supported persons, who do neither work nor want to work, and they support themselves from the family budgets of their parents. Far from having any objection that your parents, if they can, can support them for 100 years, if they live 100 years, and that all that time their children, their mezmice, etc., support you, so let them study as long as they can, and 50 years if they want to study, let them study. I was talking about something else, I was talking about the problem that, for all this time, the state of Serbia has absolutely no use for such persons, and that the same persons, precisely because they have no income from which the state can benefit, from which the budget can be filled, the state can have nothing but damage. There's a basic problem. So that there's no demagogy, one distinguished colleague and a friend just told me, well you want to vote or you don't? It turns out to be demagogical, of course we will vote for these amendments and amendments to the law, but I hope for the last time, and I hope that the future assembly of this Parliament will not have this issue on the agenda. I want it to be that way. I want us to never hold a discussion on this issue again, because this issue has to be resolved in the interests of the state, and it is in the interest of the state that it is no longer being extended and that this is the final deadline for the extension of the status to senior students. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-19-0.u61123	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. The word after the amendment is George Komlenski. Here you go, colleague Komlenski.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-19-0.u61124	Thank you, Chairman. Comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen, dear ministers, we have already declared that we will support this bill and this extension of two years. In previous discussions, we have absolutely explained the reason why we accept an extension of just two years. We accept it and we will vote for it for one simple reason, because we expect this ministry to decide within the next year, so whoever has to decide in future time, it doesn't matter, we get the information as parliament about what happened in the periods of all extensions for study when students are enrolled under the old programme. How many of them in the meantime gave, how many of them were going out for the exams, well, and, I said in the last discussion, and some passing time a year in the next few days, what's going to happen from the day we, I believe, vote. To have one picture of what Serbia has gained as a state by doing so, and what those who have studied such an extension of the deadline have received. Otherwise, I made it clear and loud that when it comes to students who have entered the programme as old, if we had had the opportunity to discuss it and discuss it in parliament when this unfortunate Bologna system was introduced, we would be absolutely against any limitation of the deadline for completing studies under the old programme. In fact, it has been enough over the head of the Serbian citizens of various ages, a lack of legal certainty, since the return of the country to the peasants in the 1990s, when the biggest result of the return was that they were ruined combinations, the families of each other were divided around imagined imaginary, large money, which they would inherit, and we came into the situation that the most quality country in Serbia would become the property of a very small number of people, because the price fell drastically at that stage. Then, under the company of introducing better education, easier, simpler education, by introducing the Bologna system, we did something that we shouldn't have done, which is to put in place a time in which students under the old program are obliged to finish, even though at the time when they were in colleges they didn't have such a limit. There were other restrictions, but not these kinds. I just don't understand the comments on the cost of the budget. The budget of the Republic of Serbia spent money at the time when they were regular students, when they went to school and when it was financed from the Republic of Serbia's budget. It's just amazing, if I'm wrong, then I'm really sorry, that any of them today have the chance to go to class anymore, not to pay their exams, not to pay for an extension of their school year, the only thing they've been allowed to do today, is allow them to bring the university to an end. I wish in two years, or those who are in parliament, who pass the censorship at all, or are MPs, unrelated to who among the political groups will enter here, there's no chance of talking about this, because it would be best if everyone finished colleges in the next two years, but, objectively speaking, that man can't expect it. What I have to point out is that in two years' time this parliament has to talk about it again, there is just one more student enrolled under an old programme that wants to finish college. It is clear to me that it is very difficult to separate those who, for objective reasons, have not completed colleges so far, from those who joke, play and do not care. But, you know, our people say -- one pity, a hundred greotas, so we here are obliged to create conditions for all those who started, to finish what they started in ways and under the conditions of when they were moving into this one serious life business. In any case, whenever the university graduates, with every new exam that has been passed, Serbia gets, if at anything else, that these people are at least more educated, and hence certainly more useful members of this society, because they are useful anyway because they live in the Republic of Serbia. There's one more thing I'm trying to say is, I am an opponent of the Bologna system, but we can't do the Darmar again by shutting down the Bologna system and returning it back to the old traditional ways of studying. I'm really not going to list the colleges here that the Bologna Study System let on their doors just as much as they had to. That prevents the degradation of the status of our colleges, and I support them in that. Just because I support them, I won't bid on this moment of colleges. At that time when the Bologna system was introduced, I have to admit, I wasn't interested personally, because I didn't study at the time, I asked someone who was usually a professor at one of the more serious colleges of a great force that works, their school system, according to the Bologna principle. Otherwise, as I understand it, what's called Bologna has nothing to do with Italy or Bologna. I remember so much, but they explained to me what it was about. High school graduates in that large country, who do not end exclusively expensive high school, are semi-literate. In order for them to be able to study at all, that's why Bologna was invented, and practically the basic studies in them were intended to describe them, that perhaps in some situations they could even literally teach them to read and write, and the master studies were essentially the real studies they were. What we have to take care of, which is why I mentioned this, is that in our sleep we must not allow such degradation of secondary and primary education to occur, so that in this sense, Bolonja will prove to be exclusively and only meaningful. I support the Ministry's proposal. For this very reason, I expect that he will require the university to get the information, to inform us of everything I've been saying, that when the time comes, maybe he doesn't have to wait two years, a proper decision is made to ensure that anyone who wants to finish the college according to the old program can finish it. Also, I welcome and support that you have sent a recommendation to colleges when it comes to first-generation students enrolled in this Bologna system, to allow them to continue studying. Therefore, in the voting day, and we hope that it will be as much as today, we simply vote for what you have proposed, in the future we find an appropriate legal solution for the first-signed patients, and a permanent solution for these students who are studying according to the old programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-19-0.u61125	Thank you, Mr. Komlensky. National MP Nemanja Sarovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go, Mr. Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-19-0.u61126	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Marinkovic, here we witnessed today a very, very strange debate. We who listened carefully could conclude that many here had opinions, but that they disagreed with him. Today, virtually, no one knew what the MP groups were talking about, who attacked the minister more strongly, who attacked everything that had been done more strongly, who expressed his disagreement with the so-called. The Bologna process, with a delay, with no delay, so everyone has a different opinion, but in the end you say that you will all vote for that legal solution that is proposed. I wish Minister Sarcevic had been much more active, not a little more active, but much more active in this debate and we expected him first and foremost to hear what are the specific reasons and what are the principal reasons for the solution that we are being proposed to be just like this. We haven't heard a single argument. So, what you're proposing, it's not an argument, and it shows both the government's way and the government's rationale for refusing amendments to the SRS. Your explanation is realistic and cannot be called an explanation, because you're just saying – the proposed solution is more cellular. There's no explanation here. Like, you could have written it -- our solution is better. But why, what are those reasons? Look, Mr. Minister, at a time when the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia was a much more esteemed institution, while here the ministers who came to the MPs with respect, because these were directly elected representatives of the citizens to whom the Serbian citizens transferred sovereignty, as they seemed arguments for each individual amendment. Five or ten years ago, perhaps not five years ago, but ten years ago, it certainly wasn't that the government's explanation for each single amendment that refuses to be in one sentence and to be identical for each amendment, but for each amendment was written a different explanation, a real explanation, essentially, and then there was the possibility that an amendment to the amendment could be conducted and a quality debate with representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. with resolute ministers. Today we heard from you and from the ruling majority's representatives that you actually have no idea what the number of these people you call senior students is, in my opinion, an offensive term. Whether someone is going to study or not, how long they're going to study, that's his right. You show a lot more tolerance in society, for example. According to those who love the same sex, it's probably good, it's advanced, it's modern, it's pro-European, it's in accordance with their standards and it's probably much better than studying a longer period of time. We heard a whole series of insults on the account of Serbian citizens, on account and those who voted for you in large numbers, so you called them squishy, soft and incompetent, talking about laziness, irresponsibility, saying that no matter what life conditions are, that there is always personal irresponsibility, which is absolutely not true. That's how you judge people you've never met, that you know nothing about, that you don't know about the difficulties they've had in life, that they've all met up with, and I don't think it's absolutely in place. If you thought there were such people, then you should have acted more concretely, so you can prescribe alternative options in the law, to say, here, we extend for those who are good, beautiful, fine, fair and advanced, and those who are, as you say, on the humpers of your parents, who are unemployed, who are lazy, sloppy, irresponsible, there are no ones for them, for those who are senior students, so you could have nicely opened up some agency, so you would accredit them to give confirmations to whom they are justified to continue to study, and who belongs to that group of lazy and ruthless, and, worst of all, those who, as one of the previous speakers of the ruling regime, who have no desire to work, so that the state of them has some benefit. You know, it's interesting how harsh and critical you are to people who haven't completed their studies in time, and yet how some other phenomena in Serbian society that are much more dangerous for us both as a state and for us as a people, as you don't sanction them, you represent it as normal. You know, the Serbian people won't be extinct if they don't all finish their studies, but if certain social phenomena are popularized, like homosexualism, well, then it's quite certain that we as a people will disappear from the face of the Earth, because that way there won't be any children, there won't be any students, and only then will there be those who will be able to work, to contribute, to pay taxes and to fill the state budget in Serbia. So, I ask you to be honest to the end and then, to the end, to make your statement honestly. My question for you, Mr. Minister - why do you extend for two years? The Serbian Radical Party has proposed that it be, in general, to decide that these people can as long as they want to complete studies according to the programme they started studying under. You said, "No, it'll be another two years." Now, why two? Based on which criteria, objective criteria, you estimate that the two-year deadline is ideal, why not a year, why not three, why not five? So, what led you? Or did it come to you in a moment? And let's see who's going to be responsible first of all because two years ago, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia once extended the deadline to two years ago, and now you're telling us it's not enough. For what reason isn't enough? How do you know it's not enough if you don't know how many of these students there are and if they're even interested? Secondly, can you, Mr. Minister, promise us today that in two years, there will be no new extension, or can you promise us that it will be and what it depends on? You know, there's not one single moment here all day we haven't heard any objective criteria, no fundamental reason, no principled reason why we should vote or not vote for the proposed text of amendments to the Law on Higher Education. You're practically asking us to take your word for it, so you'll come another time, you or someone else, and then again without a clear criterion ask the MPs of the ruling coalition for which some have openly declared that they are against it, but that they will vote, you will ask to vote. You know, some of them talked about how, let me read, I wrote it down, this system produces squishy people, unable to deal with life's challenges. That's what the representative of your ruling coalition said. So they talked about some 35 years old sleeping until three o'clock in the afternoon and their moms bringing their breakfast to bed. You know, everyone talks about examples from their environment, but I think the chairman had to react, too, and warn that he is not allowed to insult, especially generally to insult Serbian citizens, because, possibly one of them has been studying for a long time, not knowing these people and not knowing, I repeat, what kind of life challenges and accidents and possibly accidents they've encountered, which are reasons for long study. Some of them asked, "Here's who's been finishing our colleges?" Well, you guys ended up, most of all, Professor Ljubisa Stojmirovic, I guess everybody knows that, isn't some secret. Here, if you don't know, here I tell you, some of them ended up alone, who were capable, and some of them, here's the esteemed Professor Stojmirović helped, tutorio, taught, and here they are now becoming some great experts, unfortunately they don't seem to have taught them all, so they don't know any concrete answers to give. You know? We've heard from one of the previous speakers that this issue has already been systemically resolved. He says, these students, the majority of students, as he called them, can solve their problem differently, they can move on to the Bologna system, they can move to another university, or they can move to the same college in another city, for example, from Legal in Belgrade to Legal in Kragujevac, so they can no longer be on their parents' coat of arms. I'm asking you gentlemen, why didn't you respond? Why didn't you make it into the law that if someone didn't finish by 2019, that he was obliged to move to the University of Kragujevac, or that he could no longer and should not be on the back of his parents, or if the state lacks a tax, that he is obliged to fill the national register with the amount you determine after 2019? There are many unresolved questions here, I have asked the minister, here I repeat again, for the end of my discussion. Please answer me, what are the principles of reasons, which are objective and essential arguments, which are why you propose a solution like this, why two years, not a year or three, why did you refuse to do so without a time limit? I ask you to stop insulting these people by saying that they're senior students, that they're unemployed, that they're shallow, and that there's so much else we've heard from the mouth of the ruling coalition's representatives.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-19-0.u61127	Thank you, Mr. Sarovic. The Rade of Rade by amendment, Nemanje Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-19-0.u61128	This is an amendment to Article 2, of course different from the next amendment, but we are trying, once again, to draw attention to both the public and the minister and the MPs, who will vote very quickly for this bill, to take another look at these amendments of ours, in particular, I repeat, this one is enough to adopt this one amendment submitted by Natasa Jovanovic or the others who, in essence, are contained in this amendment, because you have not convinced us that there is a reason why this law should be put forward, that is to restrict study for another two years. You didn't, none of you gave us the answer to the question, what's going to happen today, we don't know how many of those students are there. Here, let's say five thousand, no one gave us an answer to the question, what happens in two years, when there's 500 of them. Then how are you going to explain to those people who want to extend their deadline and say, now we're taking scissors, now we're cutting, there's no going on? What will be a legal basis for you then, what will be a human basis, what will be a motive, what will be an exaggeration, to tell someone, two years ago some group of people were nice to us, so we brought them in, extended the deadline to two years, and now that you're not finished, you're not nice to us, so we're leaving you with unfinished colleges, or we're not giving you a chance to finish. It can't be done like that, we're really talking in principle, and there's no reason to root for these students, for any reason, nor do we have the motive of any, simply in principle, we say that the state and the university must allow everyone to study as much as they want, according to the program that was in place at the moment that someone enrolled in college. You don't have one, neither of you gave us an argument, that is, against the argument, on what we claim. We're, I repeat, neither are we talking, this isn't college for this reason, the one from that thing, we don't have the right, no one has the right to meddle in someone, which is why they study as much or as much. If someone is studying an inappropriately long term, the study pays, of course, so I guess someone will be the criterion when they hire there, I guess there'll be a criterion and a length of study. Maybe he will, maybe he won't. We repeat, someone can study from a hobby, aware that they will never work in the profession, doing a job that has nothing to do with a college that he enrolled in when he was young, and wants to finish it at some late age. You gave us no argument to say that we were wrong and that our amendment and our amendments should not be accepted. The argument is not that the bill is more consistent. You know what celery means or not celery. On the contrary, our amendment is more comprehensive if anything just in case, for God's sakes. So if all these people finish colleges in a year, in half a year, maximum for two years, then the fact that we haven't put a limit won't have any, neither will they live nor will have any legal consequences. But if they don't finish, there will be serious legal consequences because you'll either have to do this again or break the Constitution, so someone will turn to the Constitutional Court, and then whoever's responsible for not allowing someone to finish college, and then the Constitutional Court will react, and then there'll be a whole dance in the country about something they shouldn't be about. We have a lot of problems in education, and you ministers agree with that, which we need to solve, you're proposing laws, we're suggesting solving in one way or another, but what shouldn't be a problem, you're making a problem. From something that, let me say, you're one step ahead, here, you want to extend that study team so-called. old students in two years. So, you've taken that step, just take a step further and say we accept the SRS amendment and we're erasing that two-year term. I repeat, there may be no need to think about this in two years, but it will be a problem if there is any need, even if there is even one student left who started it and didn't graduate from college. That's it and you have to solve it, better now than again in two years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-19-0.u61129	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. Professor Ljubisa Stojmirović, as amended. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-19-0.u61130	I've been called by a colleague, if you've forgotten, but no problem, I'll get the amendment. I said, and now, I repeat, it's no problem, colleague, I will support this amendment of yours even though I will ultimately vote normally for this proposal, because I will not, in any way, hold back these students who have a problem that we are discussing today. I think it's a missed chance, because today the minister could also be at the government, and here to take the chance and be remembered as one of the favorite ministers, just like Daca was remembered, and it was that verse: "Dacho care, don't give the money," and by that everyone knows him. These students have now welcomed the minister, and they have sent behind him a winged winged woman who says: “Sarčević, dragon, don’t let them slow us down. ” Now, we'll see what it all comes down to. I really believe and I'm convinced that a much better and more appropriate solution would be that we've limited the time limit for them to be able to study, because this would no longer appear as it happened four or five times, that from time to time, they're looking for an extension. And many of them, unfortunately, won't even end if we cancel that deadline, but at least we won't have these long-term sessions, moaning, begging. I've been chased for a month in August. I've received them here. I've been coming. I was just explaining something to my colleague Neji, and he had the wrong opinion. He thought they were all on the budget and none of them paid anything. That's not true. They'd settle all their obligations. Maybe there were some who were on the budget. Most of them made it to the undergrad. Now they're graduates, they just have an obligation to take exams and pay for it. On the other hand, my colleague Sarovic called me about helping someone finish their studies and so on. Now, I'm being honest with my colleague, Sarovic, and at the end of the day for all of you, there's no reason to hide, I'm one of those professors who thinks it's important to find what he knows, not to ask for something that he doesn't know so I can take him down. I've never loved it, and I've always been a student at the service. It was clear that every day from 8:00 a.m. to 12:00 a.m., I was in the cabinet, and they could come whenever they wanted. It was no problem either to take the exam through seminar papers or to move two days, etc. I've always dated them. If I helped someone in this way I accept it, but there were citizens of Serbia who were both DS and SRS, most of them were radicals, because I was in radicals at the time, so it was kind of the easiest thing for them to chase me. There were those from the DSS from the SPO and so on and so on. After all, it was my job to help each of the students, and it never occurred to me to ask who he voted for, which is the party, even if you know one of these students down from Blac, because I taught in Blac. I come to the exam once, and in the first row, there's four guys, they've got SRS T-shirts, Seselj, and so on. And, I say, here's the first thing I'm going to ask these radicals of mine, because I'm asking them the hardest questions since they know best. They took their shirts off so fast, I didn't even get to open the record. I don't always run to be a student at the service and always help them, and I think I'm doing the same thing now, and I'm convinced this problem is going to be solved so we won't have any more problems next, not after two years to continue. Someone will think of it as a solution to it properly, without litigation, without trouble, without contention, culturally, humanly, as it seems to us Serbs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-19-0.u61131	Thank you. On Article 2 of the amendment is Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Do you want to explain the amendment? The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-19-0.u61132	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have nothing against the amendment of the SRS and I will vote in favour of that amendment, but I will also vote in favour of the law unless it is accepted. Why? The reason is the Martians. So, you all know that in the middle of the 19th century, Captain Misha donated to his homeland a beautiful building in which he was housed a rectory that these days from a group of hooligans representing themselves as students and if Captain Misha had purposed and donated it for educational purposes. Imagine how much one Martian needs to come to a lecture from Mars to Belgrade University, and then stop by the presidency a little bit, and take down some fences, skip, a little cobras, a little wanting to get into the president in the late evening, imagine that kind of hooligan that's 31 years old, and if you limit a young student's right to study for just two more years, imagine what the consequences can happen, and Mr. Rancic knows about the psychological condition, such a gentle or time-old student. That student was supported by Jasmina Vujic. It's that professor from Berkeley, Jasmina Vujic. I think she's bigger than the CIA, I think she had to pass all the CIA professors to qualify and be referred as a nuclear physicist in Serbia, not to help solve the mystery of poor uranium, but to control one political party. These days, she, not as vice president of the party, but as a professor from the University of California, supported this group of hooligans, time students who occupied the Belgrade Faculty's Rectorate. Is Jasmina Vujic ashamed of Bosko Obradovic, when she did not present herself with her full name in Serbia, which is, a politician, the vice president of the Sprski Movement Dveri, as the party is already called? It is increasingly anti-Serbian, not Serbian, but it has the word - the Serbian movement of the two, so let's assume that it was once true, and after Jasmine Vujic arrived, it certainly is not true. We must also take care of who teaches everything, how quickly students can acquire knowledge, including calling, let's say, if he teaches them Janko Veselinović. Imagine how many years it takes for that professor to figure it out. Imagine if he teaches them, let's say Boris Tadic, no one understands him, so on the condition that he is a lecturer, and that would probably explain him better. I believe that a large part of the professor wouldn't have passed admissions for his university, some of them, I believe, having experience here with some intellectual grotesques, so many of them wouldn't have passed a admission exam for high school. I'm offering the Ministry of One Year to launch some activity and to see the test, to perform, to see how many professors in Serbia, how many of them can pass an admission exam for the university they teach at. I'm allowed to bet on my head that half that admission exam wouldn't have passed. Imagine Mrs. Danica Popovic, when she teaches for a salary of 200,000 to 300,000, and she prescribed the book of a dead professor and presented it as her authorial work and, at the end of 2018, she charged 1,400,000 dinars. Imagine when a student who understood her plagiarism of translation, who realized the editorial that she was prescribed, was persecuting and if he has an average of 10? So it didn't occur to her that she was persecuting these Martians and the bad students, but she thought she was after students who were very successful and had grades of 10. Imagine Jova Bakić, a long-sighted man. I feel sorry for the students he teaches, and I don't know what that knowledge is that he can pass on if in public life he's trying to chase the streets, if he's trying to get political opponents to swim on the Sava and the Danube, if he's trying to get into a central national information house with long pipes. Imagine what these students can learn from an ex-doctor who's been chosen three times, even though he could have been chosen twice for a professor? It is full of Belgrade University, especially the Faculty of Political Sciences, of some professors who, besides covering political opposition parties, have no other knowledge. Imagine that designer professor who was formerly a thief's assistant here, imagine his knowledge of Soroshe's letter to the university, etc. I'm worried about students, and I think I should think about it, and I'll definitely vote for this amendment, given the latest events and the fact that students are wasting their time traveling to Mars and back, that Jasmina Vujic, greater than the CIA, supports that kind of students, and I'm worried not only about calling our students when they're going to get it, but what they're going to learn during that education. I'm afraid the villagers and those who pass the dual education are the only people who will have more knowledge than professional training.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-19-0.u61133	The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-19-0.u61134	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, so here at the very end of the debate we heard almost all the possible arguments in favor of extending the deadline so-called. old students. So we also heard the arguments of the opposition's actions, which advocate not to limit some specific deadline in this regard. I'm sure that, Mr. Minister, you've taken into account all the possible arguments that you've been leading to suggest exactly this model, which is that it's still limited to two years and I think it's a good thing and I think all the MPs have had the opportunity to read and emails sent to us by the students themselves just before this session. Personally, I think this is an optimal and good measure, therefore, to meet these people, to extend their deadline, two years in this case, to have the opportunity to bring the study to an end. But, on the other hand, if it were to be sent a message that it had to end once, I wouldn't use the word agony, but in any case, it wouldn't turn into what none of us wanted, which is major study. When I say that the SNS will support a model like this, and we've had opportunities to hear other MPs' groups, and even one part of the opposition suggested something else. However, the only thing we haven't heard is what those MP groups think about, or those parties that are not at the meeting today, which are in this so-called meeting. Boycott. Now, in line with that, I find it interesting how all this was characterized by Vladimir Gajic. It's the president, if I'm not mistaken, of the National Party's legal advice. It is the party of that Vuk Jeremic who is in the boycott, whose MPs do not come to the National Assembly meeting, and as far as the boycott is concerned, I say reliably that none of the parties and movements that intend to go to the elections have the infrastructure to cover 10% of the election committees in Belgrade and Serbia that I am not speaking and I fully agree with its findings. He says nothing will change in six months. And I agree with that finding, there's nothing going to change about them in a long, long time. The question is, can they fill out a list of 250 candidates? And I totally agree with that. The only thing I disagree with is that I would not only limit this to opposition parties that possibly intend to go out, but I think he had in mind his own party and other parties who have just declared this boycott for these reasons -- nor do they have candidates with whom to go out to regular, local, rural and parliamentary elections, nor can they collect signatures, nor have infrastructure to cover polling stations, and we would have an opportunity. At that polling post, the opposition would have an absolute majority in the number of controllers, or members of the election board, but they don't have people, because making a party, I'm sure these will be agreed by colleagues from the opposition present at today's meeting, making the party a busy job, a difficult job. Serbia needs to be visited, infrastructure to be built, meat committees to be made, people to talk to, anything they neither do, nor think of doing. In part, they show their laziness. Gilas usually bought the client at large. A man came and bought a party. So is Wolf Jeremic. So they don't think about doing it. That's why they're making this, let me say, pre-prepared alibi for the election debacle that's expecting them anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-19-0.u61135	Thank you. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Thank you, Minister. You've done yours fairly. Is there anything else you want to say? Yeah. The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-19-0.u61136	Thank you very much. The Honorable President of the National Assembly, chaired by the honourable MPs, not to be that I remained brief, I always answered, but since they were similar questions, I waited to see what was all that answer. This story has a history, at least when it comes to me, because students who study under the old program, I never called them old, I never insulted anyone, and neither did they, so I'm building on any insinuation at my expense, welcomed me literally in front of the Ministry three years ago in August the month I went to the cabinet. The first parties I received, I received these groups. I've been receiving e-mails for three years. We gave in the first year two years and said – people, this is a chance that is not missed. When it was two years ago, everything happened again, so we said another year. This measure must have some kind of pedagogical connotation. If it's unlimited, then, not to say, it's pointless. The right to education has not been denied to anyone. So there's no such thing as being sued to win the state. That right is not denied. I'm talking about a parallel system that's been in existence for too long and an orderly country has to bring it into harmony someday. So, I also said, which no one commented, that by introducing JISP, because I also mentioned the lack of people and information systems that were very pounding through the network "The File", which is still on the extremity, have all relevant data. Not only the Faculty of Economics, but many other universities of almost all universities have agreed to cooperate. So I've talked to all the rectors on this subject, and I've also looked at their capabilities and capabilities. I didn't make a statement at all just because he's my boss. So, apart from giving time, we've said a lot of things here ourselves -- well, the question is who's going to use it, but let's be operational. I, by nature, have a manager's brain. So, we're going to watch the list of people, watch what's wrong with them, and we're going to watch to be proactive. The student organizations I've called 200 times and attracted to working together on this topic, I think they're the poorest side. Now I think everyone has to do it, and the Deans, and the prodigal and everyone else, and we're going to analyze it correctly, and then we're going to know who's going to use this in two years and who isn't. Someone may not have any intention. The state can really set up a system in those two years, because what are we supposed to do about reforming high school? Should we break up in half? What should we do with State's graduation, break up in half? Well, it's always been done here. I can't go back and forth until I know which minister I remember when something started, so it's done to the end. I belong to people who, when they take something to do, do it all the way. With all the respect and sensitivity of this difficult story, people and all that, I certainly said that the government's opinion of me is binding, the opinion of the Education and Assembly Committee is also binding. So it is very little important what I said personally as Mladen Sarcevic or as Minister of Education. My role is more subordinate than the government and parliament, and I don't force int with anyone, at least with the students, whom I want all the best. So, I like good students, good students, we go to quality, and I want to wake up that energy with them so they can finish this. That's good for them. If they have families, it's good, to show example to their children. There are a number of reasons why everything should be said in this sense. So, I think over two years is pointless, it's permanently pointless, that's my opinion. For a year, you'd have understood, like last time, because the same students in the group asked me to -- give me just another year, here's 99% of us came to an end. It was a bluff. I recognize those e-mails, third time the same style. So, I don't mind, I don't respect, I don't have the right, but I have the right to in the name of the state and the system that I run and that we arrange to round it up. Also, I'll look into Bologna. You can't just pull something out to say it - now it doesn't work. It's one process. So we're going to analyze, I mentioned several times in this home that we're doing a serious education and science strategy by 2030. That's where we invite everyone. So there's going to be a public debate, there's going to be a lot of things. We want to see if these universities are the future we have now for the next 10 years. They are otherwise organized around the world. Are similar sizes, forces, what programs should be and a number of questions, so the 2030 strategy is one serious story. One of the colleagues here said that smart people who handle some colleges had come very critically to the process and preserved some of their values, but it must be even more stringent. I'm sorry, I could have been discussing here all day, answering every replica of what we've got, a lot of getting out of so many doctoral studies and so many doctors. Are we more advanced? Did we improve society? We didn't. We've been stalling. Let's not do that. I sharpened all the stories and acted even though I had no right to criticise independent bodies, but I do it as a citizen. I'm also very critical of the National Accreditation Body and I'm looking for strictness, I'm looking for serious examples. You won't hear the minister ever pick up the phone and make a recommendation over a relationship. It doesn't exist. I'm looking exactly the opposite. Wherever I hear something's going past protocol, I'm getting involved and I'm saying what I'm thinking. Around these events of the university and all that, very few people from the academic world have said what they think. I know what he means. Most people think it's wrong, that there are other ways to find a way for someone to express their opinion. If we've brought a court here that the Belgrade University is of national importance, if the historical building is Captain Mishino, means it's appropriate for some kind of behavior, I don't support it, and I'll always say it publicly because I've been entitled to my opinion for the whole century and I don't want to change it for someone to tell me – you'll say that too. So I'm very clear, here's the usurpation, here's a lot of legal acts broken and then I wonder why we've been doing all this if someone comes in? No one said the rector was chosen in the wrong way, democratically, according to the rules. The rector who was chosen by entering the door and becoming the rector after October 5th broke the first rule of autonomy of the university, because she reported to students from the Philosophy University building and that's like normal? That's where no one reacted. I don't know if anyone else has a conscience to say by name and last name what some things are called and what they are? And that's true. That's how we learn youth, show example that we're honest people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-19-0.u61137	Thank you. Moving to point two. Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Proposal for authentic interpretation in principle, since no amendments have been submitted to the proposal for authentic interpretation, the National Assembly will agree to Article 160(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in the voting day decide only on the proposal for authentic interpretation, in general. According to Article 87(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby appoint Thursday 19 September 2019 with a start at 15.00 hours as the day for voting on the agenda of the 18th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th session. We'll wait for 15.00 hours and join the vote. Thank you. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before we move to a decision on the agenda points, we need to determine the quorum. Please insert your cards into the MPs' units to determine the voting quorum. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 134 MPs are present in the hall. We're moving on to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on Higher Education, in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision by amendment. The People's MP Natasha Sp submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I'm closing the vote and I'm announcing that no one has voted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I'm closing the vote and I'm announcing that no one has voted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I'm closing the vote and I'm announcing that no one has voted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote and declare: for -one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying five. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am voting on the proposal to establish the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to come into force earlier than the eighth day of publication. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 131 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on Higher Education, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending the Law on Higher Education in general. I put to the vote item 2 - Proposal for an authentic interpretation of the provision of Article 2. Law on the confirmation of the amending and supplementing contracts 23.761, 24.745, 25.002, 25.198, 25.497, 25.610, 25.872, 81.657 and 82.640 between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank (the Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia – International Contracts) in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the proposal for an authentic interpretation of the provision of Article 2. The law attesting to the amending and supplementing financial contracts, which I have quoted. We move on to a decision on the violations of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which only has one. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, at a session on September 18, 2019, at 12 hours and 30 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please report this injury. I'm closing the vote and I'm announcing that no one has voted. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude the session of the 18th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly.
