ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-19-0.u53532	Dear Members, we are continuing the work of the Fourth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia this year. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 92 MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., please insert your identification cards. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 97 MPs are present in the hall. I would like to inform you that today he was prevented from attending the sittings of MP Djordje Milicevic. We continue the joint principle and uniform search on the proposals for acts referred to in points 1 to 18 of the agenda, according to the order of application for a word. I won't read to you who I invited to the session. Here is the Minister of Finance, Mr Sinisha Mali and other co-workers of the ministers in the government. Next on the list is MP Snezana Paunovic. Do you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-19-0.u53533	Thank you. The esteemed chairperson, respected colleagues, respected ministers with co-workers, citizens and citizens of Serbia, in principle debated as authorized by a set of laws before us on behalf of the Socialist Party of Serbia, said counterpart Nedjo Jovanovic, and I will refer to the bill on the conversion of housing loans indexed in Swiss francs, above all. We have before us the law as a proposal from the Government to help the citizens of the damaged and in charge of the Swiss francs. What does that really mean? We heard discussions that were different on the subject. There are different attitudes, there are different interpretations. But one thing's for sure. The problem is big, a large number of citizens are in charge of the Swiss francs. What is safe and can be said is that each of these cases is individual and that they are really different, so it was not realistic to expect that one act, one document in the form of the law, will solve all problems. For now, it is the best solution the state could and for the first time, I must stress, that it has offered to the people in charge of this currency. Article 3 of this Act states that the provisions of this Act apply to the Treaty on credit where, on the date of entry into force of this Act, the repayment of credit is under way, except for contracts where the conversion of residential loans into residential loans has been made in euro until that day. The provisions of this Act apply also to credit agreements, i.e. to residential loans where, until the date of entry into force of this Act, debt by credit has reached the whole, and no forced enforcement or non-judicial settlement procedure has been initiated, or has been initiated by that date, or during the coercive enforcement or out-of-court settlement procedure, including residential loans where the sale of residential immovable property as a means of security has been carried out and the debt is not fully settled. I'm going to absolutely put the accent on the last category of people, not because I think all of these categories of people are less important, but because this may be the biggest confirmation of what happened between 2005 and 2009 actually hurt the citizens the most, and what is left is not the NBS and at that time the state as such. The truth is, yesterday we had a chance to hear that certain colleagues have responded to perhaps one approach that now says that citizens in charge of the euro are in a more unfavourable position than the citizens in charge of the Swiss government at the moment is trying to help. But on the other hand, aware of the moment that it was business banks, we must stress that banks had more awareness of what was going to happen than the citizens of the Republic of Serbia had at the moment. It's also a fact that when it comes to banks that gave loans in Swiss francs, they differ. There was an option of choosing whether you would be in charge of Swiss francs or in euro at a certain number of banks, but there were also banks for which you had no alternative, such as was Hipo Alpe Adria Bank, which was sold today and is now Adiko Banka in Serbia, which only had loans in Swiss francs in the bid. So every citizen who was a client of this bank, who defined himself to be in charge in this way to resolve his living issue, had no alternative but to be in charge of Swiss francs. Another very important thing that brings us back to the decision of the Cassation Court, which I think is very good and that it is a pity that it is not contained in the Lex specialis, although I suppose it may not have been possible through this text and I believe that only the minister knows how difficult it was to talk to these two sides that have completely different problems and different interests, so I congratulate you on having come to some solution that, I will agree with everyone who critics, is not ideal, but is a solution. What happened then? All these banks didn't lend loans in the Swiss francs because they owed themselves to the trustee in the Swiss francs. The definition of this is, in fact, the fact that all clients are paid in dinar equivalent, so their approved credit in Swiss francs was converted before payment to dinars, and then, to be paid off by a seller, because the contracts are mahogany in euro, then it's in the middle course not of the NBS, but of the bank that gives credit, converted into euro. The first profit of a business bank took place right at a conversion between the currency in which the loan was granted, through dinars as domestic currency, to the euro in which the loan was paid. The security for this was mortgaged and the obligation was that each client, based on an assessment of the bank's skills, must contribute to the assessment that the property guaranteeing the return of the loan had a value of 1.2 to 1.5 per cent. So all the property that was loaded with mortgages covered the value of the loan, even in the mass were greater than what was the credit to the bank that was obtained. Then what happened? According to the annuity card, that war grew by 2.5 times. At the time when clients were no longer able to pay for the anuities they had imposed, credits were announced and mortgages were charged. All the properties that were sold were sold again by advertising by the bank at the price that stands in the contract with the bank as a minimum price, and then they were eventually reduced by a certain percentage, depending on whether they were sold in the first bid, the second or waited third as such. Clients remained in charge despite the fact that they lost real estate based on the fact that the bank remained consistent with itself that despite being charged through the sale of the property on which the mortgage was placed, it continues to burden clients for the remaining debt, which in most cases is the retail amount of the principal. So, lex specialis today helps and says that you are able to choose a deal with a bank that will mean debt in Swiss converted into euros and reduced by 38%. But the issue remains open for citizens, which is – what will they continue to pay under the circumstances that they have lost the property they have borrowed from? On the other hand, what's important is that there is, in the end, constitutional law and I wouldn't dare speak of it, first of all, because I'm not a lawyer, but that every one of you is looking for justice in court, because of one, in my opinion, absolutely unfounded bank wealth in a particular case at the expense of citizens who have been exposed to these loans. I don't think it's even bad for these people to talk to the bank and I know that this law couldn't treat these people in a way that they're no longer bound to banks, although it would be natural to expect it under the circumstances when you have a mortgage deposit as a loan. The moment you're sold a mortgage deposit, there's a story between a client and you that closes somewhere. No, they remained consistent with themselves, they remained consistent with those interest rates that raised the value of the loan two and a half times and now ask people for the rest of the debt despite the fact that they were charged and that people were left without the property they owed. Justice for this situation I think that citizens must seek in court and I believe that the commercial banks were not ready at all to step out or explain in that sense, because, unequivocally, every bank absolutely charged its own credit, validly, as much as it paid at that moment. I really think that the decision of the Cassation Court should be the basis for all the future actions that will take place, as I think nothing less than this category I'm talking about has been damaged by the people who have paid their credit in full and who are now in one, as I would say, an inexplicable situation with regard to the fact that all of their colleagues, with the date of adoption of this law, will have a reduction of 38% compared to what is the remaining debt. So, this law is not difficult to criticise and all those who have been critical lately can't be said that they didn't have a basis, but you have to say one other thing and that is, regardless of what I belong to a category of people who are users of credit in Swiss francs, I have to say that I'm going to vote for this law for two simple reasons. For the first time, the Government of the Republic of Serbia has responded to this issue. I'm sorry I don't see representatives of the NB for which I absolutely think they're in the previous period... There was a colleague, Arsic, right. The state and the NBS remained silent on one fact which had been brutally launched in 2009 and then could react with lex specialis, so precisely, these are all critics of this law who could, as they today criticise it, apply it, for example, and that would be more favourable for all credit users. In that sense, criticism is losing its meaning today. I don't think we've solved this problem. I think we've loosened him up. I think that despite the fact that I accept that the importance of the work of business foreign banks in Serbia is great, it will nevertheless lead to people seeking justice in court, that banks will still be compensated because objectively the banks have become unfounded in most cases. Again, I stress, the difference in which the business bank, which was working in Serbia, is because the difference between banks is absolutely large. Not all banks profited in the same way, but I'm afraid that the largest number of clients, precisely those who did, who were very consciously entered into this project, who provided them, as I would say, cannot be criticised, it's work, the bank is there to make money, but I still think that this profit was far above what in the civilized world should be allowed. But it's a moment that we can criticise, but not change retroactively. Today we are where we are. As with my SPS colleagues, I will support the law that you have proposed with gratitude that you have begun to deal with this problem, and I firmly believe that if practice shows that this solution may have a continuation, that the Government of the Republic of Serbia will also come forward with some correction or addition of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-19-0.u53534	Thank you. The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-19-0.u53535	Dear MPs, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your presentation. I think everything you said is in favor of the state having to react. So after those 10, 12 years, you had banks with your practice. Whether it was ethical or not, it's now a question of whether it had something to do with ethics or not, but apparently they wanted to maximise their profits. On the other hand, we have citizens who may not have read those contracts properly. You said it yourself earlier, it's easier to be a general after a battle than at that moment. This suggests that the state had to react. That it's not the law, that we didn't force banks, on the one hand, and citizens' associations to sit together, to find a solution, whether it's ideal or not, it's the solution and ultimately leaves the possibility for every citizen, if he doesn't agree, if he doesn't accept, to seek his justice in court, which I think is fair, therefore, unlike some other models in some other countries. This just shows how difficult and courageous it was, and on the other hand, how much we wanted to find a compromise solution. The whole law is a compromise solution. Unfortunately, after 12, 13, 14, as many credits as there are, you can't make absolute justice for everyone, but I think for most citizens, those who took the housing loans, this law is a final solution if they want a solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-19-0.u53536	Thank you. The word is Snezana Paunovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-19-0.u53537	Your Honor, I couldn't agree more, and I'm glad you understood me very carefully. What is very important is one moment, which I will say for the sake of the citizens of Serbia, which is that even when we talk about the category that I primarily talked about and those people who make a deal with the bank, I'm afraid they have the possibility of interpreting it, because the rest of the debt that is put on them has never been offered to these citizens as a possibility of war or at least an experience with banks, they've already allowed themselves that for this period since the announcement, whether they declared it 2015, 2016, 2017 or 2018, they charge interest on the remaining debt, even though you as a client did not have the opportunity to escape. In that sense, I think that those citizens who accept the agreement with the bank, on the basis of the law that you have proposed, have room for a lawsuit against the bank in terms of unfounded wealth, if by no other means, then by this basis, that we are not talking about the previous period when it really is not the government's job, nor the ministry, nor could you deal with it, because it is already entering that legal protection of every citizen of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-19-0.u53538	Thank you. The word is Predrag Jelenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-19-0.u53539	Dear ministers with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues, my colleagues Bauer and Mijatovic spoke of some other laws that are up, and I will say a few about amendments to the Airport Management Act. For the sake of the public, Serbia's airport was founded in 2016 with the intention of managing smaller Serbian airports, except for Konstantina Veliki and Morava Airport, about 30 airports fall under the authority of Serbia's Airport. What is changed by these amendments to the law, or by this article? It changes the essence. It is thought of a decentralised story in the sense that the change in Serbia's Nis's headquarters becomes the very same centre, except for the railway, road, one new air traffic centre in Serbia's space, but also as one of the major cities on Europe's air map. These companies will provide a number of new lines for some new destinations, which automatically means new employment, primarily, as it is commonly said, people in the operation. However, as I suppose the ministry's resolution minister and people know, there is still a problem in the beginning, an inadequate space on the ground itself, in the building itself, because the building itself is not large enough to function properly. This means that it must immediately start from investing, like a new terminal building due to an increase in total air traffic capacity. According to my information, there is a great deal of project-technical documentation being done, so as a National MP from Nis, I would like to urge that some additional funds be allocated, if possible, in order to get the building into operation as soon as possible, and to enable Serbia's airports to carry out their work more effectively. So much for now. In voting day, the SDPS will support a set of laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-19-0.u53540	Thank you. The word is Daniel Stojadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-19-0.u53541	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with associates, I will talk about the bill on the conversion of housing loans indexed in Swiss francs, which the government proposes as a solution to a major problem for all users of these loans, which was created due to a major strengthening of the course and I will refer to counterpart Paunovic. The problem occurred when this overnight currency grew, so the war, for example, increased from 20,000 dinars in 2008 to 50,000 dinars. The reason is the decision of the Central Bank of Switzerland that the value of the franc no longer maintains artificially at a low level, rather than leaving it on the market. The decision has made an earthquake on the entire financial market in Europe, and in particular in Serbia, 22,000 users have been hit. What particularly bothers me is the fact that in public opinion these people appear to be easy-minded and positivity because they were reportedly warned. At the time, Governor Jelasic did not give rise to the risks of these loans, and the banks knew it. On the other hand, at the moment of the loan, the conditions for users were far more favourable, and that's a fact. Behind these loans, I have to remind you, there was a National Bank. Let us not forget that these loans are secured by the National Housing Loan Corporation, which was founded in 2004. The State, i.e. taxpayers, is certainly not obliged to pay for any non-professional banking business, and perhaps this is also an opportunity to form a special institution that would only deal with consumers, i.e. consumers of financial services, and thus would be protected. But let's not forget that the users of these loans have been dealing with their existential issues this way. In other words, in this way they resolved the issue of roof over their heads. The adoption of this law will in some ways alleviate the problems, as well as the advertising of these loans. As you said, Minister, this is a very complex subject and a matter of compromise all three sides. Each of these 16,000 loans is a story for itself and only in the last 30 days, a month, how many banks will have a deadline, each of the loan users will see where they are and how relieved they are. All in all, an opportunity has been given to convert credit and reduce debt by 38% of the clients in charge consolidated and retain their property, which is the goal and is of great importance. Of course this solution should have been found before, and that's a fact. But to people who have a crucial problem, and they're 16,000, it's never too late. I would say that in my own words – that at one point the state missed, or stopped, as a responsible state, and at the second moment, now, the state takes responsibility for its failures, which is its role. So I will personally, as well as MPs of the Socialist Party of Serbia, support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-19-0.u53542	Thank you. The word is Milan Lapčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-19-0.u53543	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, this bill, which solves or partially solves, helps solve the problems of those people who took housing loans in the Swiss francs, is a long-awaited law and, unfortunately, Serbia is one of the last ones, if not the last country that has responded to these problems in Europe that have been encountered by many countries that have given housing credits in charge of the Swiss francs. One of the first countries to solve this problem was Hungary, which gained power and sued its business banks that gave housing loans in Swiss francs to its citizens of the European Court of Justice in Strasbourg and the state received banks in front of its citizens and ordered, or by law, all loans taken in Swiss francs to convert to domestic currency at a significantly lower rate and thus protected its citizens from excessive jumping of the Swiss franc course. Serbia only solves this problem in 2019, or partially solves it, which is certainly commendable, but it is not a good thing that this law was before us today, but it is not a good thing that it was not done much earlier, and it should have, taking into account the problems that people who took loans and the practice of other countries that solved the similar problem. What's the problem with this law, and why do I think he could and had to be better? Every law that is made, it must be treated in the same way, or the same way, by the complete target group to which it applies. This law through Article 3, as it is now defined, does not. In fact, it pulls out one part of that target group, those people who took loans in Swiss francs, and according to the provisions of this law, those people will have privileges, and those others will be damaged. On the other hand, Article 3 defines that the law will apply to those housing loans where they have been paid over, and not to those that have been completed, or paid, which is absolutely unfair to the people who have been responsible and who have paid off their housing loans, although they may not have had or had to borrow, to whom the property, to whom the credit has been suspended, otherwise settled, etc. So these people are damaged, the state didn't stand behind them, but they'll stand behind those who objectively or perhaps subjectively couldn't or didn't want to pay increased credit rates. The number of people who did this is over two thousand and they paid their loans, were responsible and would be punished, because those who did not do so in time, could not, objectively, stand and stand, will be rewarded by the state by standing behind them, loans will be converted, reduced by 38%, and they will be able to solve their housing problems by further payment. I think who else knows which way is introduced into practice one precedent, that those who are responsible, who respect the law, respect the contracts under which they are in this particular case in charge, or, for example, in this particular case. There have been such cases and in debt to public enterprises, according to the EPS for spent electricity, those who do not pay for electricity, the irresponsible state stands behind them, reduce their debt, to make wars and those who do so much better than those who do so on time. The same is true of these loans, that the state was behind those who were irresponsible to one part or who could not pay the loan, not those who were responsible. I think it's unfair and it's not right. Finally, since the minister is here, I would like to take the opportunity to ask, as she appeared in the media information that the state of Serbia will donate to the reconstruction of Notre Dame 10m euros. I have a drink to every piece of art, every symbol of any state, any nation. And this is a terrible thing that happened, like the terrible thing that our Hilandar burned down or that burned down 150 churches on KIM... (President: Thank you. I ask you only that before such a decision is made to bear in mind that Hilandar burned down in 2004, that 15 years... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-19-0.u53544	Wait for the minister to answer. Your time has been spent. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-19-0.u53545	Thank you very much. It is an interesting comment and the remark we just heard from a person who was and whose party was in power until 2008. Credits in Swiss francs started in 2005, if I'm not mistaken. Why did you let those loans go? I think you've had the Minister of Economy and you've had the governor and everyone else who's been with you in power, that is, acting your authority. Why did you even allow this law to come to credit in Swiss francs? Then why didn't you say what you're saying now that it's irresponsible? First of all, I don't think you should call people who still have loans in Swiss francs irresponsible. I don't think those people are irresponsible. At the end of the country is here to help them, but I think it is hypocritical to say – and why you are not, so that, etc., for the problem you created and your government. I ask you - why did you allow loans in Swiss francs at that time? We are now trying to compromise to find a solution. So what you've caused us to try to sort of calm down and lead to a final solution precisely because of those citizens you called irresponsible. I disagree with you, the citizens were doing what they thought they should, there were both wrong decisions and some institutions, but I wouldn't talk about it right now. Once again, it's hypocritical what you said and that's my answer to your question. As far as Notre Dame is concerned, there's still no decision that is related to any assistance from us, if it is, we'll let you know in time.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-19-0.u53546	Thank you. The word is Milan Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-19-0.u53547	Mr. Minister, you completely misunderstood me. So I'm saying it's a good thing this bill came on the agenda. And also, to remind you, you may have forgotten that, since you're telling me that my authority and my party in 2005 created such an ambience and gave loans in the Swiss francs, to remind me that at that time you were much more in power than I was, and to bear that responsibility, too. Secondly, the French course was fully stable at the time, and my party was not leading either the NBS or the Ministry of Finance. Thirdly, if it is some objective responsibility of my party, it doesn't mean that I and that moment, and today, agree with it. And that's when I thought it wasn't supposed to be done, and today I do, and I absolutely have no reason to bear responsibility for it as a person. I was just talking about the law that whatever comes before the MPs must treat all those to whom it applies. This law doesn't do that. The real exception is only for those who have not paid the loan or the loan is ongoing. What are we going to do about those people who paid off the loan, borrowed themselves, they're practically going to be punished after this law? That's what this is about. As far as Notre Dame is concerned, of course, we, with our humble possibilities, need to help it, just as much as the state of France helped rebuild Hilandar or the churches of KIM. I think it would be extremely abnormal for us to throw huge numbers at each other, and for Hilandar whose reconstruction has been going on for at least 15 years a year, we give a million euros to rebuild and that is likely to be renewed for at least this many years.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-19-0.u53548	Thank you. The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-19-0.u53549	Thank you very much. First of all, I'm going to repeat again on your comments about my engagement. I worked at the State Administration from February 2001 to March or April 2003. Well, sir, if that's close to 2005 or 2006, I don't know, but I'll do it one more time, so you all know about it. When I was talking about the government where you were, or your party, in the end, the Prime Minister was from your party, I assume it was the government's programme to offer citizens and loans in Swiss francs. Not to mention here and not to read the statements of ministers from that government, ministers belonging to your foreigner, what they are and what they said. As regards the comments on Article 3, I would ask you, as a responsible MP, if I may say so, to make an amendment that will present a solution for those citizens who have taken the loan and who have already paid for it. We're looking for that solution to find, we didn't make it. The legal solution to take into account those loans that were paid in the past we, when I say both the NBS and the Government and the Ministry and the legislation and everyone else we sat down, failed to find. If you have it, we'd be happy to consider it and accept it. I hope that's exactly what your amendment is talking about, so the legal way to solve it. Once again, it is done, and the law applies in Article 3, to all those credit users who still have credit in Swiss francs, and we also covered a group of people with which the mortgage has already been used, but still owe them to apply the provisions of this law. So everything that's active is covered by this law. Honestly, although I'd love to, I don't know how I can cover something that ended five or ten years ago. Also, consider one thing that is more financial, so they can't, and they're not in the same position, those who took credit for 20 and 30 years, so those who are still users of these loans, and those who have already paid off the credit, who may have used it for a few years or up to seven, eight, nine, ten years. So it's not the same category of credit users either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-19-0.u53550	Thank you. The word has Bojan Bag. He's not here. The word is Momo Colaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-19-0.u53551	Dear Presidents of the Assembly, the Presidency, the Honored Ministers Sinisha Mali with fellow Members, honourable MPs, as regards the draft law today on the agenda of the National Assembly session, we express our satisfaction with the views expressed by Minister Sinisa Mali. In this regard, we support more than 17,000 families and, according to our estimates, more than 70,000 endangered citizens, or members of these families. In this sense, we particularly express our willingness to understand, the willingness for solidarity that is very important and important at this point. He also meant the same thing when it comes to supplementing the Budgetary System Act, when it comes to preschool and education employees. I particularly stress the need to accept the explanations that Minister Mali gave regarding the state's capabilities. There are conditions for such a thing and it's very good. We've all contributed to that. I especially express this willingness to help those in a difficult situation. This is also true for preschool and education workers. Therefore, there is no need in particular to talk about the advantages associated with these two laws. We also support the explanations given by Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Djordjevic regarding the laws for which they are defined and in charge. In that sense, we also support those laws. I think it is very important to point out that our PUPS parliamentary group is closely monitoring everything and in what areas is happening and in this regard supports the Government of the Republic of Serbia's measures. That's why in the voting day, we're going to give support to all these laws that are on the agenda today. In the end, I would especially like to express my satisfaction with yesterday's talks with war veterans. In that sense, these talks that were related to this law and the talks that began yesterday suggest that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has an understanding for the most vulnerable people and citizens of our country. That is why we are giving full support and I hope that soon we will have this law and this issue on the agenda and support the Government's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-19-0.u53552	Thank you. The word is Sonja Vlahović.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-19-0.u53553	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues, citizens and citizens of Serbia, I will talk about a bill on the conversion of housing loans indexed in Swiss francs. A law that will solve a major problem, a difficult financial and material situation for 16800 families. Could you today, in 2019, be able to pass and talk about a law like this? No, I don't. In 2012, we found many problems. After difficult economic reforms and fiscal consolidation today, we can discuss and discuss such a bill. We found the state before bankruptcy in 2012. Today in 2019, Serbia is a country that has surpluses in the budget. A country that has economic growth in last 2018 4.3%, a country that now has a public debt of 50% of GDP. We found unemployment huge, we cut it down, and we cut it in half. We inherited a lot of problems, we solved a lot of problems, but we continue to solve it, because the state of Serbia can do it because it is strong. The aim of this law is for socially endangered families to get help from their own country. We deal with the consequences of this law, and we all know that the cause came in 2008. We are helping not only the citizens of our Serbia, but also the banks and deposit insurance agencies. Our people and all of us definitely need an economic culture, which, unfortunately, we don't have, and the economic knowledge we need to learn is exactly this law. This law is a lesson for all of us who are in debt and taking loans, because credit is a very serious business. We must have responsibility both as a society and as individuals. In voting day, I will vote for this bill for 100,000 people who are in a difficult material situation. Citizens and citizens of Serbia, neither the government nor Aleksandar Vukic, nor the SNS have the responsibility to create this social problem, but we have the responsibility to help and solve the problems of our citizens as a state. This isn't the only problem we've solved. Serbia now thinks and cares about its citizens. Strong Serbia can solve the problems of its citizens, evidence of this law as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-19-0.u53554	Thank you, colleague Vlahovic. The word has been given by MP Zoran Bojanić. Here you go, colleague Bojanic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-19-0.u53555	Thank you, Your Honor. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, I'm ready to talk and then I see these creepy empty benches against me and change the concept I had in my head. Unfortunately, there are no people sitting there for years, and there were no Tuesdays or Thursdays, not to mention the problems of the people in charge of the Swiss francs. They mentioned it, but for their own political reasons. If they had any serious intentions, they'd be sitting here with us today discussing this serious matter. But I'm not surprised at any of the people who have no ideas, who have no vision, who are currently struggling with traffic signs, with construction machines, people who are trying to stop Serbia's progress. No, it won't work. There are MPs here who were in that assembly when the same team had a vision of over a hundred years of oak stopping the construction of Corridor 11. We listened every Tuesday, every Thursday, every start of the oak story, we listened to some curses, we listened to everything and everything, and nobody ever mentioned oak again. Thank God, in a month or two, we'll see the entire Corridor 11 complete. They have one big accident, and we have one great fortune that is at the head of this country is a man, Alexander Vukic, a man who has a vision, who has a mission and who has a goal. Along with it are the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the assembly majority and the vast majority of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. It is only one goal, Serbia successful, Serbia appreciated, Serbia in which all our children will have jobs, from which they will not be left, and which will forget those times that ruled until 2012. When I say this, I associate this with all these amendments and additions to the laws that are in front of us, which are the Law on Planning and Construction, about the procedure of enrollment in the cataster of the immovableity of the waterways, the transport of passengers, all the way to the Road Traffic Act. These are all the laws passed by this congregation majority in another congregation. To say that we're serious people, to think about the future, they're just saying these changes. We have seen in the course of law enforcement that there are parts that need to be perfected, that need to be improved, that there are other laws to be brought into line, and we do it regularly without looking back and saying, so we have done it. We are, but we want to fix it, as we want to fix Serbia. I'd talk a lot about all the laws. I'm only going to mention here the one that's about to go along with what I've put forward, and that's the Budget System Act. We brought up changes and additions to the law a month ago, but we realized that we needed another category of people, who brought up our children in preschool institutions, equalize with everyone else who is in student and student standard, and that's exactly what we're doing. So we're correcting what we brought a few months ago, but we're correcting for the benefit of our fellow citizens and all those people who work in this sector of education. The law on credit conversion would really be illusory if I spoke much after such a statement by the minister, following the presentation of counterpart Aleksandra Tomic, counterparts Veroljub Arsic and counterpart Goran Kovacevic. I'll just make two notes. Yesterday, the Constitutional Court of Greece made one decision, all of which are interested to read, and it concerns 70,000 people in charge of Greece in Switzerland, where it is said to be – you repay the loans as you did in debt. So much for that. For those of you who talk about dinar loans, I'm going to give an example. At the same time that these Swiss loans were in a tendency to take as much as possible, there were cases that dinar loans were granted in 2000 for the same purpose and for the same purpose. One company gave dinar loans to its workers, meaning under very favourable conditions. It happened in 2004 to 2008 that it was these dinar loans that went through the growth trend of 8% over one month, which was September and October 2008 and came into a situation where the users of the credit in Switzerland were in the same situation, that these loans were not normal to return. Normally, since it is the Action Society, the Assembly of Shareholders and the Supervisory Board have determined that such loans should be changed and it is determined by harmonising with the euro and the underlying debt and all that has been paid, and a single interest rate, i.e. a fixed interest rate, has been established. So, I think the terms when loans are granted, as they're shared, depend on whether they're more favourable dinar or not. At this point, I don't think so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-19-0.u53556	Thank you, colleague Bojanic. The word has a folk MP, Serbia's Filipovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-19-0.u53557	Thank you, Chairman. Honorable ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen MPs, what I often like to point out in my speeches, that's something that adorns our authority and which, I would say, is the main feature of the SNS, which is responsibility. We took responsibility in 2012, a great responsibility for the future of all Serbian citizens, and we found disaster. We found a deserted register, we found empty factories, we found debts from the locals to the Republic. You should have faced it, you should have had courage and responsibility, but also knowledge. We solved one problem at a time. We have brought the country and finance into such a situation that we can talk about today, not only to talk about it, but also to solve, to offer concrete solutions to citizens who are not sitting across from us today, because they have more important jobs, they have more important jobs to crash around Belgrade, to break down again, to destroy everything that SNS, everything that Serbian citizens are doing, where they create better Belgrade, a better city where more people will come in and spend more money, from which our citizens will have an interest, greater wages and higher pensions. So on the one hand, you have a responsible authority that helps citizens solve those problems that this government isn't guilty of. This government didn't push citizens into the arms of unfavourable loans, didn't push them into debt slavery, but it solves the problem because we want to help our people. We have conditions, we have opportunities for that. Today's top critics in Serbia are the very ones who pushed citizens into such loans. Where did they end up with such a policy? They left power, but full pockets, they were rewarded by those who gave such loans, and Serbian citizens were mutilated with such loans. Today we as the responsible government are working hard and we have found a solution to help the citizens, the 100,000 people who are unhappy, come out of the problem they've been living in for so long. Of course we're proud of it and of course every SNS MP should point that out. I want to point out, I want to point out that I am proud of everything that we have been doing as a government for six years, all that you are doing as a finance minister, all that the President of the Republic of Alexander Vukic, who is the first president who has had the courage to go down without security among those people who are angry, justifiably angry with the state, not this authority, but the state that then pushed them into such a difficult situation, not thinking about their future and the future of their children. Where will these people be when the banks leave them with no roof over their heads? That's what the government didn't think, they didn't care. It was important to create conditions for themselves, to winter in the Maldives, to boast about pastures, to buy expensive watches, expensive cars, and what would happen to the citizens, because they knew that some other people would come one day, they would drive them away, they would be full of pockets, so nice. What about the people? Well, then Alexander Vukic came to the post of President of the Republic and we said – enough. Enough with that kind of politics, enough with the waste, enough with the bullying and the experiencing of the citizens. That's where we put an end to the robbery and irresponsible politics. This is what you as finance minister, before Belgrade mayor, has shown in practice how it looks like in Belgrade once again to be responsible for the future of citizens, working so that we haven't taken a single loan, and Belgrade has started to develop dramatically quickly, that every year we have a two-digit number of tourists growing compared to the year before. Now these heroes are running around the Republic Square to tear down what we do, to tear down the fences, to fight fences, to tweet, to drink cafes in cafes. Let's keep it that way. Serbian citizens know that I should evaluate it and I am confident, I want the elections to be done as soon as possible, to get these people where they belong and never to see them in these assembly benches again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-19-0.u53558	Thank you, fellow Filipovic. The word has the People's MP Milan Ljubic. Here you go, colleague Ljubic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-19-0.u53559	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, distinguished ministers with associates, respected MPs, is now in front of the National Assembly a bill on planning and construction. The constitutional basis of this law is that the Republic of Serbia, among other things, regulates and organises the use of space. So far experience and practice in the realisation of various projects in the area of construction has shown that in the very process of realising both traffic and infrastructure projects has lost a great deal of time in solving property-legal relations before the issue of a building permit. As a consequence, we have a practical delay in work. In order to get into the construction phase of roads and railways, it is necessary to pass several stages – pitching, preparation, cadastral procedures, but also the process of expropriation that is required and long-term. The most important problem is the time delay, i.e. the time-limits, which has everything to do with the delay in the implementation of the project itself. All of this is about solving the expropriation of illegal objects, waiting for legalization, moving the population, as well as the process of appeal. All this is important because only the Ministry in its 2019 budget planned to launch projects whose value was estimated at around 5 billion euros in investment in infrastructure projects. All of these are projects of great importance for the Republic of Serbia, such as the construction of the Moravia Corridor, the construction of the Fruskogorje Corridor, the construction of the Nis-Medara highway, then the construction of the Belgrade-Budapest high-speed railway line, the reconstruction of the Nis-Dimitrovgrad railroad. As I come from Nis, I would like to point out that planning to build a new Nish-Medara highway is a great developmental opportunity for some less developed municipalities, such as Meroshina, Prokuplja and Kurzumlia. Then, modernising the Nis-Dimitrovgrad railway is important for the citizens of Serbia and regional integration, which is the government's strategic goal. The railway has great national and international importance and is in the general network of high performance railways in Southeast Europe. With all this, by reconstructing and modernising the railway corridor from Budapest to the port of Piraeus via Serbia, we will have an important transit corridor for trade in goods with the countries of the European Union. With the end of Corridor 10 and Corridor 11, as well as the eastern and southern arms, we will be a hub between east and west, north and south. The essence of this Law on Planning and Construction is faster to obtain a building permit. The licence itself would be issued in such a way that it would allow the performer himself to start work immediately on those parts where the expropriation procedures have been completed, and where the expropriation procedure and procedures in the catastries have not been completed, the same would be resolved in parallel with the performance of the works, without prejudice to the rights of the owner. So everything would go easier and simpler. This would make all of this far more favourable for investors themselves, as the deadline for obtaining works for construction would significantly ease them, reducing the very cost of realisation of the project, all of which would have a more favourable impact on the investment itself. Otherwise, funds were provided for all these projects in the Republic of Serbia's budget and guarantees for loans with favourable conditions. The advantage of this law is that it would significantly speed up the implementation of projects of importance for the Republic of Serbia. At the time of the DS government, because of the destruction and collapse of the state, property, general care, corruption, sales, devastation of everything, there was stagnation of infrastructure development in favour of personal wealth and their pockets. The question is, why didn't they do something? It was a time of affair and malfeasance, abuse and privilege, as well as unintended spending of funds. Serbia today is a different country, stable, economically stronger, respected in the world. The government of the Republic of Serbia, with President Aleksandar Vukic, is headed to improve the economy, create new factories, new jobs, and thus more money in the budget, the third-year budget in a surplus, which means more opportunities for new infrastructure projects than is relevant to the Republic of Serbia. The government's priority is projects of regional importance, which will make Serbia better connected to all neighbours, which will allow for greater economic growth and efficiency of the economy, and this law will make it possible. The point is to connect, so we can trade goods and services. Connecting today is crucial for progress, as well as better contacts between business people. Investment in traffic infrastructure, on the one hand, increases domestic demand, and on the other hand affects the growth of private investment and the overall better economic environment. This will lead to lower prices of built-up buildings, attracting foreign investors and increasing employment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-19-0.u53560	Thank you, colleague Ljubic. The word has an Ana Charapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-19-0.u53561	I thank the chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, a set of legislative solutions that are on the agenda, once again confirms that the government of the Republic of Serbia, led by President Ana Brnabic and the state of Serbia led by President Aleksandr Vukic, is maximumly committed to Serbian citizens and can say so freely, more than any government so far. All draft laws, which are on the agenda, are the result of the exhaustive work of all members of the government, for some of the bill can be freely said that they are the result of years of analysis and years of negotiations in order to find the best possible solution for both citizens of Serbia and the state of Serbia, but also for all other economic operators. As an MP for the ruling majority, I express great satisfaction, which is the government of the Republic of Serbia and President Vukic in these difficult times for our country, with our people, unlike some Alliance for Serbia, whose leaders are interested in the only personal interest, so it is likely that a period of seven years without the government of the state register, a difficult and long period of time, are probably exhausted, so we would like to now, trying to challenge political instability, to get hold of state tills and authorities. And that's how they make Serbia's citizens look bad, because they're dragging foreign investors out of our country. Citizens are aware of this, even those who are on the side of this alliance, because these citizens are also referring to our government and the President of the Republic, because these citizens have in mind that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and President Vukic will consider their demands and meet them. Why did the citizens in charge of the Swiss francs not turn to Vojislav Kostunica or Boris Tadic or Mirko Cvetkovic? Well, because they, different regulations, different decisions, about subsidising loans indexed in Swiss francs motivated them to make such risky credit arrangements. Despite all of this, at the initiative of the President of the Republic, just the Government of Ms. Ana Brnabic proposed a law on the conversion of housing loans indexed in Swiss francs, where the conversion of the remaining debt from franc to dinars, then to the euro, according to the NBS's average rate on the day of conversion, will write down as many as 38% of the remaining claims, which banks have for such clients, and it is important that 15% of the written claims will fall precisely on the burden of the Republic of Serbia's budget, which means that our budget is stable. Why did the citizens even decide on such a risky credit arrangement? On the one hand, they were motivated by then by the government, and on the other hand, at the time of the conclusion of such a credit arrangement, the franc was worth 47 dinars. In order to only five years later, the franc strengthens by as much as 100% to the dinar and reaches 94 dinars. Clean comparisons, with the arrival of Jorgovanka Tabakovic, led by the NBS franc strengthened by slightly less than 10% over a period of seven years, so 10 times less than in their power. A logical question is raised that is to blame for such an unenviable position of Serbian citizens, us or previous government? Well, of course, the only main culprit is the previous government, because it motivated citizens to make such unfavourable credit arrangements. All of which I have been talking about is how much the government of the Republic of Serbia and the SNS is interested in helping all citizens of Serbia contrary to some Alliance for Serbia, contrary to the previous government that is breaking into the RTS building, which falls into the Belgrade City Assembly building, which is the property of all citizens of Serbia, which calls for lynch, hanging, which is used by the worst fascist methods have not gotten hold of the state registers. Well, you know, this Alliance for Serbia cannot possibly regret that the government has defined over 100m euros in these legal solutions to help citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are in serious trouble because they have brought them into such a state, and they would like to see exactly those 100m euros end up in their plugs. Well, that's what Serbian citizens will never let them do. When it comes to the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on registration in the APR, I would like to point out that these legal solutions will absolutely simplify the registration of economic operators, as regards the increase in the number of persons to be authorised to submit registration applications. The bill will address all the shortcomings we faced in the previous period, and for the final result, this law will improve the position of the Republic of Serbia on the Doing Business List of the World Bank, which will result in an even greater number of both foreign and domestic investors. Once again, thank you to the members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia who cares about us citizens, who care about the future of us and our children. What you and our parents didn't have because of the thieving of the previous government, our children will have. Serbian citizens are no longer being deceived, and this will show by arriving at today's SNS rally in Belgrade in such a number that modern Serbian history does not record. The SNS parliamentary group will support a set of all legal solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-19-0.u53562	Thank you, colleague, Sorceress. The word is Tiana Davidovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-19-0.u53563	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow workers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, are ahead of us with a bill on the conversion of residential loans indexed in Swiss francs, which after more than a decade solves the problem of 15,785 people who are currently in charge of the currency. A compromise solution has been reached between several stakeholders and citizens, i.e. associations representing them, banks and states. This proposal provides for the remaining debt of credit to be converted into euro and that the debt obtained by conversion is reduced by 38%, and that the interest rate is limited to 3.4%, plus a three-month or six-monthly Euribor for variable interest rates, i.e. 4% for fixed interest rates, which reduces the risk of further credit payments to a minimum. According to this law, the bank is obliged to submit an offer to the user within 30 days of the date of entry into force, while on the other hand, users are obliged to notify the bank of their decision within 30 days of the date of receipt of the offer. This law is not binding, so users unless they want to be obliged to make a conversion. The separation of the state for the purpose of applying this law will amount to 11.7 billion dinars in case all users accept the proposed solution. This amount is not small but thanks to the responsible policy that the SNS has led over the past years we have put our public finances in order so that we can solve a number of inherited problems among which is the problem of citizens in charge of the Swiss. In the first three months of this year, we achieved a budget surplus of 15.8 billion dinars even though we planned a 19 billion deficit. The public debt also stood at 50.8% of GDP at the end of March, while in 2015 it was 70%. The results achieved by the government also include the fact that the total value of foreign direct investment in the past year was 3.5 billion euros, while all other countries in the region attracted 1.9 billion. Then, when we talk about the unemployment of 25.9% in 2013, today it is less than 12% thanks to numerous factories that have been opened throughout Serbia exclusively thanks to the work of this government and our President Aleksandr Vukic, who daily struggles for a better and better life for our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-19-0.u53564	Thank you, colleague of David's. The word has the People's Messenger Natasha St. Jovanovic. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-19-0.u53565	I would like to thank the President and the Honorable Ministers of Associates, dear fellow Members of Parliament. I'll also talk about lehs specialis, is a compromise solution found between the three sides. One side is citizens, i.e. The associations that represent them, the other side is certainly banks, and the third is states. A compromise has been reached and the best possible solution at this time for all three sides to solve a problem that lasts for more than a decade. Because, to remind the Swiss francs, it's those who, according to the latest data, make up 540m euros or 15685 is a user of credit. But it's not just that number. There are also members of their families so that this number is significantly higher because they also felt it as a consequence of their skin. At President Aleksandar Vukic's initiative, our National Bank of Serbia and the Ministry of Finance conducted very difficult negotiations that this law applies to all debtors, not only those who are over 50,000 euros with the rest of the debt. That means next. The amount obtained by conversion will be reduced by 38%, and the additional relief is the fact that the calculation of the conversion is done, but without the tight interest. And an interest rate of 3.5% per year is applied, which is incomparably better than it's ever been before. The state will participate in replacing part of the cost with 11.68 billion dinars, and the money to implement the law will be provided by issuing bonds in accordance with market conditions. The greater burden of the write-offs, of course, is borne by the banks, but the share of the state's cost ranges from 30% to 40% in total. This country can realise, because it has a surplus in the budget of 15.8 billion dinars. Otherwise, you couldn't, and that's the answer to the question of those who say, and what have you been waiting for so far to react? This authority is also responsible for its citizens and this agreement has not been easy, as it refers to a bilateral agreement by a client – a bank. But it is known that the vast majority of banks are owned by foreign governments who do not allow interference in their business policies. And also, our country indirectly through the National Bank of Serbia and through the Ministry of Finance has been imposed as someone who wants and who has to protect the existence of its citizens. Because whoever got the housing loan means they meet high criteria, i.e. that they were credited for repaying credit at the time of approval. These people have all been put in a situation where, because of the Swiss franc's jump all these years, they pay regularly, and the debt is minimally reduced, to the hopelessness that anyone will do anything about it. This lehs specialis requires a state that has the will and strength to protect its citizens. And it's not easy for us to fix all the screw-ups from the previous period. Because nothing good has been left for us to inherit. From the previous government, they destroyed whatever they could without having a personal advantage. Some things can never come back. But in addition to all the obstacles, we record the surplus and no one can deny it. We remember how many domestic banks were destroyed, from the same ones that were in power until 2012. Let's just remember the "Agrobank" affair, "Vojvodine Development Bank", and continue "Beobanka", "Yugobanka" and more. It would take me an hour to pick them up and talk about it. By passing this law, we come up with a socially acceptable solution to prevent valuable and working families who just wanted what was natural, which is a roof over their heads, not making social cases and also dispensing courts because there are many litigation disputes. When loans were raised most of the year 2007, partly in 2008, to remind our citizens, the SNS was founded only in October 2008. At that time, the government did not educate its citizens to explain the dangers that lurk, binding a loan that was related to the Swiss, but even encouraging them. She was supposed to explain to them what a eurobor is, what a variable interest rate, what a currency clause is, so they could manage their finances more easily. Also, it should be noted, as counterpart Arsic said yesterday, that many who did not meet the conditions due to the level of the loan war, which were tied to the euro, were able to obtain a credit related to the Swiss franc, so that was also one of the reasons why people took such a type of credit and entered the risk. Of course, this is costing the state, and it's always going to mean evil, and who helped us, why they flew when they didn't know the consequences. Maybe it's not fair to everyone, because there are those who paid off a loan in very difficult conditions, forced to sell real estate and close loans. But, you must know, our country was left on the verge of bankruptcy in 2012, and we had to progress gradually, because nothing comes overnight, valuable, tireless work, primarily by our President Alexander Vukic, but also by other members of the government and all members of the SNS, everyone in their domain had a wish, and now we have opportunities, because the budget is in surplus, as I said 15.8 billion dinars, and that's a big deal. We want our citizens to feel protected and to be sure that the state will always be there to defend their interests, which allows us primarily responsible, state and economic policy. How much support Alexander Vucic and SNS have, will show up at the rally tonight and as my colleague Ana, who has no newer history, said – come tonight to show the strength and support that the SNS has. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-19-0.u53566	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. The word is made by MP Dragana Kostic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-19-0.u53567	I would like to thank the President, the Honorable Ministers with fellow Members, the People's MPs, today, in my presentation, I will pay special attention to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Planning and Construction. The law was passed in 2018 and already this year we have additions and amendments. What does that tell us? It says that Serbia today is the largest construction site in the region, where more than 40,000 active sites are active. Changes and additions are just the result of field work. Although Serbia is in the world today at the speed of issuing building permits, this government headed by our president, Aleksandra Vukic, wants to continue to improve the work of professional services, as well as the speed of authorisation. One of the objectives of this law is to speed up the procedure when issuing construction permits for line infrastructure facilities, as well as to recognise the appropriate right when issuing a building permit, i.e. it is prescribed that the investor’s statement, that property relations will be resolved until the use of the permit, constitutes resolved property rights, relations on a catastrian plot, which is educated as a preparation project, but without the condition that the same is implemented and confirmed in cataracts, during the application phase of works. Also praised is the accelerated procedure for issuing construction permits, for projects identified as projects of importance for the Republic of Serbia. These amendments extended the deadline for drawing up detailed city regulation plans, which came into force before 1 January 1993, and their deadline expires in November this year. As our Serbia plans to start a new investment cycle, worth about five billion euros, an analysis of cases in practice, a new solution is proposed, where work is not allowed, where property is not solved, but the process is accelerated in a way that is not sought by a certified and implemented reparation project, i.e. a plot that allows the works to be carried out in stages where property legal relations are resolved, and that a concessive application of works is carried out. In order to speed up the resolution of the procedures for expropriation in front of the cataster and to reduce the risk for the investor at the same time as these amendments, it is proposed to amend the law on the registration procedure of the immovableity and water catalogue in such a way that such items are resolved as a priority. These are just some of the newspapers in the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Planning and Construction which will certainly affect the even faster issue of building permits, which is the greatest satisfaction of the users of these services. In voting day, I will support a set of all the laws on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-19-0.u53568	Thank you, colleague Kostic. The word is Stanija Kompirović. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-19-0.u53569	I thank the chairman. Honorable ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen MPs, when the country heads a responsible president who does not save himself with a desire for a better future, for every place, city, municipality, village in Serbia, invests in the arrangement of roads, railways, bridges, factories, fights for new jobs, reduces the number of unemployed and most difficult struggles to resolve the issue of Kosovo and Metohija, the desire to survive and stay in our premises. The responsible authority cannot calmly look at 16800 people in social problems, who took loans in Swiss francs and brought themselves to the brink of existence. Thanks to the country's president's involvement in resolving this issue, this has led to a Lex specialization. It's a political and social solution. The state has met to help solve social problems so that there is no surplus of 15.8 billion dinars in the republic's budget, and even the state would take the obligation to resolve such a problem which will positively affect credit users, reduce war, reduce court disputes. The state will allocate 11.6 billion dinars from the budget to address these social problems. That is why we, too, will show tonight's gathering in a dignified way that we are in favour of a better Serbia of 200 thousand people, that we want a decent and modern society and that we have President Aleksandr Vukic to whom we trust. We know he's having a huge problem. I can say the burden, but take us to a better tomorrow with a desire to keep as little trouble as possible for our children. We support the peace policy led by our president whom we trust, we from Kosovo and the Metohija that we're going to show tonight, is now arriving in the number of over 12,000 and we're fighting for what belongs to us, because we love our Serbia. This was also shown by young people in their march of peace who set out for a better future in Serbia, over 350km of pedestrians to support peace and stability and to preserve our country and our President Aleksandr Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-19-0.u53570	Thank you, colleague Compirovic. The word is made by the MP Ivana Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-19-0.u53571	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, we have before us a set of draft laws proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which have continued and dedicated work since the first day and shows concern and willingness and determination to solve the problems of its citizens, and we are here today, as representatives of our citizens, to talk about these proposals, to try to reach the best possible solution, exclusively in the interest of improving the quality of their lives. When it comes to the bill on the conversion of housing loans indexed in Swiss francs, I point out that this is indeed a compromise solution. President of the Republic, Mr. Aleksandar Vukic visited citizens three weeks ago who expressed their dissatisfaction with the situation they are in and promised to solve the problem. And, here we are today, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, legitimately elected institutions, despite numerous obstructions in the law, solve these problems and keep the promise. And the same ones who are trying to obstruct the work of competent institutions by violence, by promoting fascism, to criticise this proposal, and just 10 or 12 years ago, the same citizens encouraged them to be in credit. But Serbia is proud today to stabilise its finances, which reduces public debt, which is recorded surpluses in the budget year-on-year and which can approach the solution to this problem. When it comes to proposals for laws from the domains of the ministry, construction, transport and infrastructure, I point out that the proposals are designed to enable growth and development to continue in our country, i.e. to create an environment for further investment, to reduce the grey economy and create new jobs and create conditions for better living, i.e. for better standards. I would take the opportunity to point out when we talk about the Law on Planning and Construction, to praise the fact that the current Government is seriously dealing with this problem and the topics defined by this law, especially today when we talk about the work of the Engineering Chamber on licensed engineers and when we talk about responsibility for implemented projects. It was high time for the government to take responsibility and break the practice conducted by the Serbian Engineering Chamber by failing to exercise control and not indicating responsibility for persons on some projects who had been supervised or even participated in the project, i.e. the design of projects for realisation. In particular, as a citizen of the Ub municipality, as long as the consequences are faced by the current government and government, in particular, speaking of the construction of a section of the highway E-763 Belgrade southern Adriatic from Ub to Vlajkovic. Certainly, I commend the government's efforts to solve this problem thoroughly, first of all pointing to the responsibility of those who have worked in an inappropriate way, while also working on new projects. So, political responsibility, responsibility to citizens, will, work, great energy, concern for citizens of President Aleksandar Vukic, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the management of the SNS programme, are indeed aimed at removing the problems we have encountered from the previous regime, and also at finding solutions to improve the quality of life of our citizens. The citizens of the Republic of Serbia see it, support such a policy and confirm it with growing support from the elections, elections at all levels. Also, I'm sure, they'll confirm today at a historic gathering here in front of the National Assembly in a dignified civilized way, without promoting violence, insult, swearing and so on, with a smile on their faces, with their family and with friends. Of course, as far as the bill is concerned, the SNS parliamentary group will support the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-19-0.u53572	Thank you, colleague Nikolic. The word has a folk MP Milanka Jeftic Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-19-0.u53573	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear ministers with associates, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, policies by Alexander Vukic, policies by this government and policies of the SNS, is a policy of progress, is a policy of development, is a policy of job creation, is a policy of creating new jobs and is a policy of a better standard of living for every citizen of the Republic of Serbia. Next to this policy, we also have proposals for laws that are currently talking about the better quality of life-threatening citizens on better infrastructure, on a better legislative framework concerning the removal of administrative barriers and administrative procedures that our citizens and foreigners have faced so far. I must point out that when we talk about the Law on the conversion of residential loans in Swiss francs, somewhere we all agreed that this law has a dominant feature that it has a social trait too, or it is a dominant social law. Of course, his picture and what precedes this responsible social law is a stable economy. This is exactly the economy on which SNS, Government and Aleksandar Vukic has been working in continuity since 2012 and this is the economy that is based on realistic foundations only thanks to the accelerated economic progress, only thanks to the surplus, only thanks to the increased number of employees, only thanks to the large number of open factories and a large number of new jobs today we are in a position to remove all those screw-ups of previous authorities that they have made, and one of these scams is certainly the borrowing of citizens for residential loans in Swiss francs. We've been told here by some opposition representatives that this has nothing to do with the previous government. There are, and what kind of, they have, with their actions and inactions led to the error of false information by one part of the citizens to withdraw credit in the Swiss francs, and we know that the Swiss franc is one of the most stable currencies. Of course, they are to blame because one of their ministers, Mr Bozidar Djelic, some economic expert on television said -- imagine, Serbian citizens, that the global economic crisis is a chance for our country. Well, can't a self-proclaimed economic expert say that, like he fell from Mars. Is it possible that the global global economic crisis is bypassing our country, of course it wasn't possible and, of course, because of the cheap political points and the richness of the yellow tycoon enterprise on the coat of arms of ordinary citizens, workers and people in charge of the Swiss francs tried to manipulate them? The first statesman to face the citizens in the eyes to face their problems, to listen to them is Aleksandar Vukic on March 28th this year. He asked them state and human not to strike hunger, to return to their homes, and that he would try to find a solution with the government, and that solution was found. Today, before us MPs, there is just such a law. This law is a compromise solution, a compromise between the state, between citizens, between banks, but this law is very important from the social aspect, because it is 16800 families in charge of the Swiss francs. Also, I must point out that when it comes to attracting foreign investment, our country certainly has the most foreign investment in the region. Also, I must point out that since 2012, this government has been constantly working to build very important infrastructure projects, and this is also the reconstruction of rail and reconstruction, i.e. the construction of highways and reconstruction of regional railways and, of course, the largest investment since 1990, the ministry has just been in water traffic. Currently, these investments are 210m euros. The government's plan is for Belgrade to become a transport hub in 2023 where road and rail and air and water transport will be adequately connected. Of course, all of this is recognised by Serbian citizens since 2012 and therefore, in continuity, huge support is being given to Alexander Vukic's policy every year in election cycles, and today, in front of the National Assembly, it will show that they support Alexander Vukic's policy, but that Serbia is a country of decent, free citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-19-0.u53574	Thank you, colleague Vukojičić. The word is Ljiljana Malusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-19-0.u53575	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with the Ministry's associates, today we have a set of laws, and I will talk about three shorts, first of all about the Lex specialis or the bill on the conversion of housing loans indexed in Swiss francs. Why about him? Well, because there's been some dust going on these days about whether we should even step in this high house or not. Of course I should, too, be proud to have the honor and pleasure of talking about him today. Why? Well, because 16800 people signed a loan agreement with the bank a few years ago to buy apartments. That loan was in Swiss. Today the Swiss have grown and what does that mean? That people didn't even start paying off the principal. It's a shame. Why did that happen? Well, people wanted to provide themselves with the most normal living conditions, and someone told them that Swiss people were the most favourable, so that they should behave, take loans in Swiss, and over 20,000 people took those loans. They're in big trouble today, 16800. One part sues the state, that's fine, one part has a choice. And why is that? Well, because the government sat down, talked, thanks to our President Alexander Vukic, who first dared to face those people who were in big trouble and said yes, we will help people. This isn't economic law, this is social law. This is about a lot of empathy, and there really isn't someone sitting here today who won't vote on this law. This isn't just about 16800 people. These are the people who took the loans and their families. Calculate - times three, four members, that's over 60,000 people. Well, does it take 60,000 people to flush down the water? Never, but never! Serbia's advanced break has its own programme, and it is precisely the first point that we are a party that helps people, that we are the service of citizens, and that's exactly what we're going to show these days. Each state has its own principle. Hungary has done it in another way, Montenegro. We have a principle and I'm very pleased to have the pleasure of talking about it. Why? We're helping a big city once. Sixty thousand people are at stake. Guys, don't make anyone have a problem whether they help or not. What happened happened. We haven't helped anyone, but it's just a small number. Most people will be helped, and 38% of their debt is written off. That's how the responsible government works, that's how the SNS works, and congratulations on that. After all, we are able to do this for a simple reason because last year, foreign direct investment was 3.5 billion, unlike the others in the environment that had a total of 1.9 billion. We hired over 200 thousand people, opened over 300 factories. My dear colleague, who is not here today, said, who usually comes when something needs to be criticised, that there is no mention of the former government. Well, of course, this started to happen in 2005 – 2006 – 2011, and it criticises us for not opening factories and not building hospitals, which we don't open kindergartens. Well, that's notsens. Well, we opened it all up. We've renovated over 300 schools. We've renovated over 250 homes of health. We're building railroads. We're building new hospitals. We work, we don't steal. Where are those who honor us for bad work? Well, they're gone. On one occasion, I will show their impotence, that is, our power. A few days ago, the party's leadership was expanded at the Sava Center. Well, there were seven thousand of us just extended leadership, as many of us as there were here in town. It's a shame, those ruins of the city of Belgrade, the destroyers of the state. It's never gonna happen. As long as there's SNS, her coalition partners, let the citizens sleep freely, let them come to the rally today so they can see what democracy is, let the mothers come with the children to see how we do it. We are one responsible, working and hardworking party. It is now very short on the second law, and this is the draft law on the completion of the Budgetary System Act. Why? Because there is a need to correct the injustice that has been done to preschool institutions. Of course, it is about salaries that need to be equal with salaries in primary education institutions, and this is exactly what Article 1. We'll raise those salaries by 9%. Then, it'll happen in May and show up in June's pay. This is an emergency procedure law. I can't just say two words about airports. First of all, I'd like to commend the Ministry's work. Since 2012, the airport no longer looks like one devastated, ruined investment, but looks like a modern, active airport. The capacity of "Nikola Tesla" airport has been increased from about five and a half million to seven and a half million passengers. The "Nikola Tesla" airport concession at age 25 is worth 1.46 billion, with 400 billion of which going directly into the budget and 730 billion in investments. There will be a new section of the airport, a new track, a new runway, a rolling part. So it's an absolute improvement in every way. There's still a lot to talk about. However, my time is running out. There's still a lot of colleagues. I also thank the ministry, of course, the president of the state above all, and I am proud to be able to discuss such an important problem today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-19-0.u53576	Thank you, colleague Malusic. The word is from the MP of the people Studenka Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-19-0.u53577	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected ministers with associates, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, this today's agenda through its points defines several important issues on which the SNS is also based its policy, and these are, among other things, the development of Serbia through infrastructure building, through strengthening the economy and responsibility towards citizens. It is precisely the parameters that Serbia needed to stand out as a leader in the region and to make Serbia progress, and for Serbian citizens to see the future in their country. Today, when the economy is stable, with surpluses in the Republic's budget, the state has stood by citizens who are in big trouble. Whatever anyone is saying about the people in charge of the Swiss francs, let's not forget that it's almost 17,000 families who are in long-standing agony, that they have reached the most in this agony because of the deception of the then government in a country that has not even thought of protecting its citizens. This law will first and foremost restore the dignity of these people because the state stands by them to protect them and help them. The sale of family homes will be stopped for people who won't stay on the streets anymore, and that's something we have to support and we can't have a dilemma about. Simply, the long-standing struggle of these people must be given some kind of epilogue, and this epilogue should not be people without homes and means of life, but people who have received the most support from their country at the most difficult time. I would briefly note in this statement that we are very proud of the upcoming investments in infrastructure, which are expected by Serbia, which are expressed in billions. Serbia is and will remain a leader in the region by miles of built roads and highways. Of course, one of the great and warmest greetings for people from Kosovo and Metohija who are largely coming to Belgrade to support the "Future of Serbia" campaign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-19-0.u53578	The word is from a colleague Jelena Žarić Kovačević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-19-0.u53579	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there are many important points on the agenda, but of course the public's greatest attention is focused on the proposal for a law on the conversion of housing loans indexed in Swiss francs. The problem arose when citizens concluded credit agreements indexed in Swiss francs, precisely for the purpose of meeting one of their basic needs, which is the need for housing. This law will regulate the rights and obligations of both banks and natural persons and will try to solve the problem that has arisen. Now there are still more than 16 or 17 thousand in charge of the Swiss francs, which has led to a social problem, and this social problem can be greater, this is the Serbian government and recognised, and this is exactly the problem the government will try to solve. From budget to this purpose, more than 11 billion dinars will be able to be allocated. We also heard from Minister Sinisha Mali, we heard from my colleague, Aleksandra Tomic, representative of our parliamentary group, the authorised representative of our parliamentary group of details that I will not talk about. What I wanted to say and what I wanted to point out was that this problem was resolved when Alexander Vukic, president of Serbia, was involved in the situation. It must certainly be kept in mind that our budget is stable now, because without stable finance and without surpluses in the budget, the Government certainly couldn't decide on such a step. This is another indicator and another result that the Serbian government is conducting politics in a responsible and domestic way. And while the government was encouraging people to be in debt by 2012, now we have to pay back our debts again and correct the mistakes of the previous authorities. I just wanted to briefly mention the draft law amending and supplementing the Airport Management Act. The government has shown that the promises are being kept, it has been said that the airport in Nis will develop, it has been said that they will invest in them both in terms of modernisation and in any other sense. The law will allow Nis to be the headquarters of Serbia's airport from which airports in Nis and Kralje will be managed. It's a big deal for our city. We will have flights to various destinations, but we will also have the opportunity to increase the number of foreign guests and to strengthen Nis as the tourist center of this part of Serbia. If we just consider that a few years ago this airport wasn't functional and that it had no passengers, and now the fact that it's going to a number of half a million passengers, that says everything to itself. It is quite clear why I will personally and as part of the Serbian Progressive Party parliamentary group support these bill proposals. Today, we will also show for who knows which time in the campaign "Future of Serbia" what normal and decent Serbia looks like and what the support of the people of Aleksandar Vukic and SNS policy looks like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-19-0.u53580	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Milan Krivokapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-19-0.u53581	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues, today I will say something about the proposed law on the conversion of housing loans indexed in Swiss francs and, right away, to say that it is necessary to support its adoption as a lex specialis because it is the decades of torment of the cheated citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Again, again and by who knows which way we correct the tragic consequences of the DS rule. The DS headed by Gilas, Jeremic, and I'm sure all along my reign was supported by Obradovic, who at the time declared himself an opposition, and in fact it was 100% theirs. During their reign, of course, they benefited from it because the group around Gilas did nothing if it had no personal benefit. They promoted housing loans in Swiss francs and thus assigned citizens to their throats. These people survived and no one wanted to turn their heads, and especially not to help them. And look now, the same people who have thrown into the home invasion of the entire family are holding protests against the people by saying that these loans are an unacceptable form of kidnapping from the citizens. What hypocrisy it is. What indifference, but Serbian citizens no longer fall for it, have no right to do so because of the future of their children, no longer passes the group of people who are currently wandering in the fog, seeking salvation for themselves, grasping at straws, and lying, breaking, beating, insulting, demeaning, and cursing the most terrible. The years of their reign were like the years of locusts. They came across everything, destroyed everything, ate it, leveled it with the ground. We can only imagine the agony of people who took credit 10 years ago and who, after 10 years of paying the war, owe the banks as well as at the beginning. None of them could look forward to a new apartment and creating a family, children, birthdays, celebrations. How can they rejoice when debt and war on loans that Gilas and his ministers promoted and came up with over their heads? I'd ask them all, so where's your soul going? How am I supposed to ask that question when they have no souls, no cheeks, nothing like a man? Each of them had a calculator in their head and politics was a clean bill, with them constantly in the gains, and Serbian citizens getting more and more and deeper in living mud every day. Was it fair for citizens all these years to give that kind of money to pay off their loans and eventually run out of money and no flat? Of course not, but the promoters of these loans, the ruling party at the time, were not interested. It can't do that anymore, because, at the hands of the Serbian state, Alexander Vukic, president, statesman, who is interested in every citizen and all that is important for the prosperity and progress of Serbia and its citizens. Serbia has stepped on its feet, the government's register is stable and can therefore be helped by those who need help and can therefore fight for every man, for a better life. This is not an easy job, but a solution has been found, and therefore the law is passed by emergency procedure, but also the banks and states will take over the necessary part of the loan and where the long-term injustice will be corrected. President Vukic spoke to citizens in charge of the loan. He said there would be a solution, and here it is. There is money in the Republic budget to solve the problem, and there is money because the economy is on its feet, because we have more and more foreign investments, because we have become a safe country for investment and a stable partner in every respect. The Serbian government adopted a lex specialise that allows the Swiss francs' citizens to be written off about 200m euros in debt to banks. We tell Serbian citizens from this place not to worry anymore, that the "critical mass" of 0.1% gathered by Djilas, Jeremic and Obradovic and which has every day a tendency to fall cannot stop us from going forward, to build a certain future for our children. So it's important and it's urgent because all previous years of suffering that people who weren't guilty of wanting to provide themselves with a roof over their heads, that this law be passed by emergency procedure, and the SNS will vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-19-0.u53582	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Savkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-19-0.u53583	Thank you. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, honourable fellow MPs, are on the agenda of a set of laws on which we conduct a united debate, and I am talking about the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Employment of Foreigners. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Employment of Foreigners sets out the provisions of the existing Law on the Employment of Foreigners and simplifying the procedure for issuing work permits. This will primarily have a positive impact on the further development of the business environment in the Republic of Serbia and attract foreign investment. Foreign investments are of great importance to the Republic of Serbia, and the creation of a favourable business environment, above all, by simplifying the procedure, will directly affect further attracting foreign investment. It is significant to point out that the government's and Serbian President-in-Office Alexander Vukic's responsible policy has led to Serbia's attracting a record number of foreign direct investment, which is why our country is 15th in Europe by the number of foreign direct investments. Foreign direct investment in Serbia amounted to 436.9m euros in the first two months of 2019, which is 21.8% more than in the same period of the previous year. In this sense, Serbia has achieved historic success, and such a trend remains. The government of the Republic of Serbia continued the programme of economic reforms and achieved the observed results in public finance reform and strengthening economic growth. The success of the reform also comes from the recognition of the world's leading international institutions. According to the Financial Times, Serbia is top of the global competitiveness index in attracting foreign investment. Foreign investors opened about 40 new factories, plants, production lines and distribution centres in Serbia in 2018 to employ more than 16,000 people. Also, it has started or is preparing to build another 12 new big investments. Foreign investments carry new jobs, constantly working to reduce unemployment and raise living standards. On the other hand, investment affects the business environment. The more stimulating and economic the business environment, the more competitive the economy is and thus more attractive to foreign investors. The government of the Republic of Serbia is committed to further improving the investment climate and continuing structural reforms. Amendments and additions to the Foreign Employment Act are certainly a significant step towards this for several reasons. The draft amendments and amendments to the laws further specify in the first place the conditions under which foreigners can be employed. In addition to the work permit, visas for a longer stay in the Republic of Serbia or temporary stay permit or permanent stay are required. The procedure is significantly simplified in several aspects. First of all, the unifying conduct of the National Employment Service is required when extending the work permit. A work permit for posted persons and a working permit for movement within a company may be extended for up to two years, with the agreement of the Ministry of Labour and Employment obtained. Also, the National Employment Service provides consent from competent ministries according to official duty. This makes the procedure significantly easier. The process of extension of work permits is accelerated and the employer is significantly facilitated. It also simplifies the procedure for obtaining temporary residence approval. This means that the employer is given the legal opportunity to initiate a procedure for granting residence visas to competent diplomatic consular offices for issuing work permits before the National Employment Service. Direct exchange of official data between the National Employment Service and diplomatic consular offices is also foreseen, thereby further speeding up the procedure for issuing work permits. Given all of the above, the proposal to amend and supplement the Foreign Employment Act makes a significant contribution to simplifying the procedure and creating an even more favourable business environment. In this way, foreign investment is directly affected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-19-0.u53584	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-19-0.u53585	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr Arsic, Mr Minister of Finance with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, honourable citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I will speak very briefly about Lex specialis. This debt problem in the Swiss francs, Mr. Minister, as you said, has been there for over 10 years. I note, respected citizens, no government, no finance minister, no representative of the Republic of Serbia, except this government, except this Minister of Cynthia Mali and the President of the Republic of Mr. Aleksandr Vukic, wanted, knew and had no courage to solve this burning problem for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. To this solution, Mr. Minister, we, as MPs, have followed this, have preceded very difficult negotiations between you and the subjects interested in this problem. At the end of these negotiations, a compromise solution has been found, in my opinion, only possible, between citizens, i.e. associations representing them, banks and states. A better solution, in my opinion, there really wasn't any for all three sides. That solution is best possible, as I said, for all three sides. What is very important is that the remaining debt is projected to be converted into euro, and the amount obtained by conversion will be reduced by 38%. An additional relief is the fact that the calculation of the conversion is carried out at an amount free of heavy interest. And finally, an interest rate is projected not to exceed 4%. This law, respected Serbian citizens, solves between 15,000 and 16,000 people. Mr. Minister Mali, I would like to express my gratitude to you and to the President of the Republic of Croatia, Mr. Aleksandr Vukic, the Serbs from the Republic of Croatia, who have been saving in "Yugobanci" Split, who have not solved the old foreign currency savings for 28 years. Many governments and presidents of the Republic and finance ministers have passed, but no one for this most endangered part of our people has heard about the old foreign currency savings "Yugobanka", except you. On September 1st this year, I hope that the first war of this most endangered part of our people will be paid. Note, there will be a problem with one part of ours, under the allegations of unfortunate Serbs, that they have no documentation, no savings book, no card, because they had to flee from the battlefield and from the field in front of the Croatian army. Therefore, it would be good to recognise the database that exists today in Croatia. And this problem, Mr. Minister, has waited 28 years and has again been solved by the President of the Republic of Alexander Vukic, as well as by these Swiss, and you, Mr. Sinisha Mali. I, respected citizens, said at one session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia that the time of development of the Republic of Serbia will be divided into two periods of development, before Serbia comes to the power of SNS and Alexander Vukic for the Prime Minister, that is, the President of the State, and I will say what time it was, respected citizens, and you will confirm whether it is true or not, before Mr. Alexander Vukic arrives for Prime Minister or State. He inherited Serbia, which was humiliated, a Serbia that was economically, industrialally, infrastructureally totally devastated, Serbia without the safety of its citizens, Serbia without hope and without the faith of its citizens in a better future, Serbia with too much debt, Serbia with destroyed state institutions, Serbia that was demonized, it and its citizens, Serbia without international reputation, Serbia with a high unemployment rate, more than 26%, Serbia before bankruptcy and over-the-counter privatisation. The second period – the arrival of the Serbian Progressive Party in power, coming for Prime Minister Alexander Vukic, that is, the president of the country. A time of terrible, difficult, economic reforms and the modernisation of Serbia, and the engine of that modernisation of Serbia is Aleksandar Vucic and Serbia is now in the midst of modernization. I'm sorry that our political opponents aren't here today in this high house, to face certain opinions, suggestions, and to ask them whether this is true or not. But they created some alliances, they call -- for Serbia, I call -- an alliance for the second robbery of Serbia, because they robbed first during the DOS. Please, dear citizens, who's leading them? Well, Dragan Djilas, in a people known as the "Diki Mafia", with 750 million earned profits while in politics; Sergei Trifunovic, called "pisoje" or "pisanovic", is the one who said he would piss on the grave of the president of the Republic. And you saw him at the rally. He also humiliated the citizens who came to him. Further, Vuk Jeremic, called "the wolf descendant", a member of the international bank of thieves; Boris Tadic – he sent all of our Serbian heroes to The Hague; Bosko Obradovic called "lupetiv". The people also ask me: "Why does he lie and lie all the time, and since he is a professor of Serbian language and literature, he invented the eighth downfall – a dunk. Further, Janko Veselinovic "stanocrat", stole Milici Badzhi's apartment in Obrovac, on the street of Brace Kurjakovic, returned it after four years. Mr. Vice President, you too have the credit for letting us bring it out here in this high house. So she was worth the criticism and brought back the stolen apartment. Furthermore, Dusan Petrovic, called "the cow-killer", while he was a minister of agriculture, ordered 500 thousand cows to be slaughtered, 250 thousand cows of 500 thousand total funds. And don't let me count on it. On April 13th, you saw, the people noticed that one group, Sergei Trifunovic, was intoxicated, one drunk and no wonder they insulted the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, those who came to that rally. All in all, let me say, at the end of the day, about one group of non-workers, freelenders, lesbians, secics, luftigues, members of the international gang of thieves and thugs. They destroyed our past, destroyed our present, destroyed our children's future. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, if we allow them to come to power, they will destroy our roots in one year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-19-0.u53586	Thank you, colleague Atlagic. The word has the People's MP Veroljub Matic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-19-0.u53587	Thank you. Dear gentlemen, I will brief on the amendments and additions to two laws, and this is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Planning and Construction and Amendments and Amendments to the Law on Amendment and Completion of the Law on the Registration Procedure of Immobilities and Waters. These solutions from these two laws are, in fact, solutions to speed up the procedure for issuing a building permit for building infrastructure facilities, primarily roads and railways. So far, it's been a big problem throughout the whole length, it's about tens of kilometers of infrastructure facilities, mostly roads, because they're building the most, unless certain property-legal relations are completed, or expropriation, the whole process couldn't go into construction. It is now permitted to build, or issue a building permit unless, in individual cases, they are resolved, and they will be resolved in the construction process. It's something that's very good, which speeds up, which reduces costs, and it's good for this country and for these citizens. Of course, no applicable authorisation will be issued until all previous actions have been completed, and those administrative and essential, those on the ground, which means that the permit which allows the use of a specific facility, whether it is infrastructure or some other, and as regards this part or the amendment of this law, is a matter of infrastructure facilities, i.e. roads and railways, and, at the level of one cadastrian municipality, it is not done by doing so or by obtaining a number of cadastral parcels at the level of one catastrian municipality. We are constantly talking about the highest level of roads, i.e. railways, primarily roads. As important as those roads that make up the backbone or spine of all roads, I mean the highest level of roads, are so important roads at the local level, starting from municipal roads to even untegorized roads, because if they're not in the sense of networking with those high-level roads, if they're not high-quality, they're not well done and they're not relying on higher-level roads, then we don't have a good network of roads. This law also allows these paths to be worked if individual expropriations are not completed in certain cases. So if we want to have a complete good infrastructure, first of all I mean roads, we have to work and work and start work, not waiting for the complete expropriation to end. The congregation is there to change the laws, adapt them to life, normally, acting further within the framework of the Constitution and the law. I think these solutions can serve both well for water and waterways and rivers when they're working, but it's just my thinking. I think the government and the authorities will be aware of that. As regards the second law, i.e. the Law on the procedure of enrollment in the cataster of immovableity and water, the entry of all changes in the procedure of expropriation cannot go beyond the quality of the work of the catastra, or the Republic of Geodesy. What I'm saying is that the work of the Republic Geodetic Institute and Organizational Units, in the people known as the Catastres, is very important and enters almost all spheres of life. So, without this good, quality work in the Catastres, or the Republic Geodesy, there is no good functioning of the state. Some difficulties that now arise at the level of the Republic Geodetic Institute simply need to be considered and seen where these difficulties are. I think that the management of the Republic Geodetic Institute at an enviable high level, that the Republic Geodetic Institute has stepped a large step towards a higher level of its work, almost at all levels, of geospace data and on all other parts where the Republic Geodetic Institute works. Within the framework of the Catastres, this type of work requires specific knowledge. Within the board, there is practically 90% of the technical profession. So that in itself says that there must be certain specific knowledge for that kind of work. Since this is so important for the work of the Republic Geodetic Institute, i.e. catastar, it is necessary to bear in mind little and the demands of workers, including trade unions, that such work should be adequately rewarded in accordance with the said budget options. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-19-0.u53588	Thank you. The People's Messenger Mirko Krlić has the word. He's not here. The word has the People's MP, Zvonimir Djokic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-19-0.u53589	Thank you, Your Honor. I am not a financial expert, and I have no ambition to analyse the financial details of the bill on the conversion of residential loans indexed in Swiss francs, but the political and social effects yes. At the initiative of the President of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic, financial, economic, banking, legal and social experts in Serbia, together with representatives of the Swiss citizens' association took part in the draft law. He is the result of hard work, negotiations and compromise, and that is why I have no ambition to change anything in this proposal ahead of us. However, I cannot agree with the opinions of those in the Assembly, but also outside the Assembly, who, referring to the Swiss debtors, usually say – are themselves guilty of choosing a Swiss franc, they wanted to profit, and now they have to bear the consequences themselves. It's just not right. It's not like that, it's not true. This is not about the savings of the "Jugoscank Bank", for example, Jezimir Vasiljevic, not about the savings of the "Dafiment Bank", Dafine Milanovic, who knowingly entered, mostly consciously, in unreasonable financial risks, wanting to make quick and easy profits, but rather about people who are perfectly legal and legitimate, in the usual way in purely regular banking conditions, enter into residential credit arrangements and choose one of the options offered. They're tied to the Swiss franc, not the euro, they could have the euro. They chose what they thought was more favourable. And then, with one move of financial institutions in Switzerland, let's remember, whose consequences, unfortunately, felt the whole world, normally, the Swiss defended their interests and found it normal, legal and legitimate, in the so-called. debt slavery. So it's not about people who gambled or people who entered some unreasonable financial risks, it's about people who did what they did at that point was more favourable. Well, don't we also behave daily, constantly economically in order to meet our daily needs? Yeah, and today we define ourselves for what's more favourable and it's not a sin, is it? Of course not. These people now, not by their own fault, have fallen into debt slavery. That's why these people need help, because these are our citizens who are in trouble, and they can't be divided into these or those, into one or the other, into ours or theirs. We need to take care of each other, we need unity. Let us act as other nations in the world do. So I'm not a financial expert, but I can really tell what's good and what's bad for this people and for this country. I know very well who works in the interests of this country and this people, and who destroys this country for the sake of other people's interests. I know very well, and I can judge which policy is good, which is bad for this people, and in that, even those who call themselves leaders, opposition leaders, are frankly neither down to their knees, nor me, nor my fellow SNS MP. Here, look, they're not in the Assembly today. The benches are empty. What do they care about citizens' problems? They were never interested. They're interested in how to get back to the state register, how to get a chance to rob again. That's them. That is why I call on the MPs to accept the bill and I want to take the opportunity to invite all those who are now next to the small screens and follow this transmission, the decent part of Serbia, to gather together today on the plateau outside the House of the National Assembly, say - stop violence and support decent Serbia, give support to the President of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandr Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-19-0.u53590	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principled single search, I ask whether representatives, or representatives of parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96 want to do so. Rules of Procedure? The word is from a colleague, Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-19-0.u53591	Dear Chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, we are at the end of this debate in principle. Mr. Minister, we can conclude that you have done a good job and found a solution consistent with the possibilities for such complex problems that they have encountered, not only 15,500 citizens who have loans indexed in Swiss francs, but many, many more people and families that are directly or indirectly related to these problems. Therefore, this problem concerns not only those who are direct users of credit, but fourfold the number of people whose families depend on the war they pay, who come every month. Every story and every family was equally happy when they took that loan, because they wanted to solve their housing issues and start a new life. After five or ten years of their suffering, torture and trouble, every story is for itself, and that is what the president of the state is trying to initiate solving such a problem, along with the Serbian government, along with the ministry in charge. You as a ministry have initiated this conversation directly and with these people representatives, i.e. associations that are representatives of these people with these problems, of course with the presence of the National Bank of Serbia and what was seen then, the National Bank of Serbia is together with the Casation Court, looking at its responsibilities, not deviating from the right path accidentally that it has certain subjective or objective problems to help these people in one way or another, realized that it can't help these loan users in a way that will reduce their costs, to reduce their pressure, especially those parts of the citizens who were minors until they can't serve the wars, later large ones, and that they'll find themselves on the street the next day. So someone had to come out with a proposal like this. Is it good to give it out of Serbia's budget, whether it is a burden on all Serbian citizens. That's what I think we should judge the whole society. I'll remind you that on March 02, 2007, the state did the same thing. I will remind all Serbian citizens that in addition to 247 million dinars, the government's regulation then approved 450 million dinars at the time, which were actually credit subsidies in Switzerland. That's when Mr Jelasic said it was not done from the budget. The subsidies then amounted to 14,000 euros for loans to up to 50,000 euros in Swiss francs, 28 000 for loans for 100,000 euros. Therefore, even then, the state intervened trying to solve problems and knew knowingly to push citizens into these funding models. In that moment, the Swiss franc was indeed favourable. Citizens were able to buy 30% of the apartment's larger square at that time because they were not able to buy apartments for loans indexed in euro. No bank is a social institution. He's not giving away money, he's giving up money for his interests, and we all know that here. What happened after that was practically an economic collapse that in 2012 the SNS led by Mr. Vukic had to deal with solving many problems in society because we came to the point that we cannot serve basic obligations as a state towards pensioners, employees of the state administration, in education, in health care. Therefore, economic reforms should be carried out. Today we have the results of these reforms. Today after three months in 2019, we can say that we have a fourth surplus of 15.9 billion, that we have a growth of 4.3% in the past year, not a drop as it was 3.1% in 2012, that we have the highest degree of attracting foreign direct investment of 3.5 billion euros, which is twice as much as for the entire region, which is 1.9 billion euros. We can say that our public debt fell from 70 to 50.8% and that our unemployment is 12%, which is almost twice as much compared to the 26%. So today we are talking about a proposal for a solution that is possible to come up as a legal solution from here in the Assembly and be supported by both the government and the congregation majority, that we have never been able to do either 2012, or 2013, or in 2014, not until now. And we can say that these court proceedings that are being conducted are a kind of protection of human rights that could not have been done by 2012. I'll tell you, while Gilas was, while Hipo Alpe Adria's bank was, no one could raise a court dispute against any loan bank indexed in Switzerland. At the time of Alexander Vukic, there was a democracy in which every citizen has the right to conduct a judicial dispute. Therefore, many things have changed, only those who pushed these people into this debt slavery, today have tried politically to manipulate them and make a simple, political campaign that Alexander Vukic is guilty of this state of affairs, which of course is not true. It was necessary to create an economic environment so that you could simply help people and make their lives easier, to serve these monthly duties and wars. Critics who say a public debate is needed, and critics who say it is necessary to implement the court's decisions, that this should be done by the National Bank and not by Serbia's budget have been delayed with their assessment. Why? Because it was supposed to be said when there started to be a disturbance in the capital market and when the doubled wars that the citizens were supposed to pay, and then when the 1,500 families lost their roof over their heads and paid for their loans. It's one of the highest levels of hypocrisy when we talk about opposition. Because here we have the opportunity to see that members of those who have propagated these loans today speak against Aleksandr Vukic, but on the other hand Bosko Obradovic has his own MPs who wear hangers in their spare time, they represent associations before courts for such loans. So you don't really know what the policy of these so-called so-called policies is today. opposition leaders on resolving these citizens' problems. President Vukic, indeed, was the first to initiate a consensus in society on these problems and showed that he cared about all citizens equally, and that is why today we will have the opportunity to show this unity to all Serbian citizens through its plan and programme for the future. I think that those who do not want to vote today should hear it, at all, debate this law, because it is very important to say what Serbia's future will be and especially in the challenges that lie ahead of us on many political issues. There is no division between citizens and the SNS headed by our president right now wants to send this message today, a strong political message when it comes to any political issue, including the question of KIM and the lives of Serbs at KIM, and therefore it is important for all citizens to come out today and support Alexander Vukic, one responsible SNS policy, and at all the states of Serbia, as well as to support what is important for the future of our children. That is why in the voting day, the SNS will support all these legal proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-19-0.u53592	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-19-0.u53593	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, you certainly remember an individual named Janko Veselinović, in a people known as Janko to turn, the leader of the turn-off association, who brought here not so long ago, to this gallery, to bring those in charge of the Swiss francs to the gallery. I'm sure you remember the banner that said we were protecting banks, not the people. So it was done today by a member of the alliance of thieves, frauds and litigators. That's when he thought differently. Today they say we shouldn't protect the people, we should probably protect Gilas, Solak, Petreus, we should probably protect Jeremic, we should probably protect the millionaires, we should probably protect Multimillionaire Gilas. And since the finance minister is here, I ask him to send a tax inspection into over-border channels operating with SBBs and to determine how they pump money across the border channels, where they use a domestic programme, which they don't pay by television channels, but that's why they pump through the border channels to tens of millions of euros. That's how they make artificial loss. So here in the state allegedly makes a loss, and by pumping money they put it in their pockets. That's why their second request is, in fact, the first one, that they own REM and so exploit our media market. You have to check that out. This will make you big money because it broadcasts domestic advertising on these border channels, which is not allowed and does not pay taxes and endanger domestic television stations whose program is used free of charge for these others. They take 120m euros from subscribers, domestic television doesn't pay anything, money gets thrown out on televisions that do retails on black, because according to the re-emission agreement we signed in the Council of Europe, these programmes have to come out in the original form, so they can't be complemented by domestic commercials, or broadcast from the studio, which is one across the N1 border channel right now. I will not talk about "Sport Club" because every night damages 10,000 euros, broadcasting in over-border television unauthorized advertising. So, you remember clearly Jank turned around, you remember Bosic the left hand. I'm sure you remember Bosko Ljotic, who represented here strongly, and perhaps he was right, was a protest of foreign banks. There was a protest by foreign banks that trampled almost entire financial insurance houses, foreign banks and foreign insurance houses. He was strongly opposed to it, and today, Bosko Ljotic insists on walking with those who just brought these banks into our country. I did not bring foreign banks here, brought by his partners Borko Stefanovic, Jeremic, Djilas, Boris Tadic, about him not to talk. You all remember there were domestic two banks. One was called Agrobanka, the other “Development Bank”. You as finance minister certainly know that we've already helped save these banks. These aren't the first people we help. We protected the savings by putting money into these banks after the robbery of the Democratic Party, the robberies of Agrobanks and the Vojvodine Development Banks, to protect the savings of these domestic banks that the Democratic Foreigners served as partner mare, that those loans that did not return the bullets to their domestic banks and, in the end, the state, or all the citizens, paid that damage, so that they would not be left without their roles. So these aren't the first citizens we help and the state needs to protect people, and people need to protect the state. So I support helping this group of people as we are likely to help others. I urge you also to help farmers who have debts to PIO insurance and to RFZO, not to charge it. These debts are almost 240 billion dinars. For the interest to be written off, for the good part of the debt to be written off, and for those people to return, to be insurance workers again for both PIO insurance and health insurance, which they stopped being. To help that second category of people who are governmental and who will certainly be grateful. In the end, ladies and gentlemen, since I don't have much time, I must appeal to all the participants today for this gathering to be dignified. I appeal to political opponents to remember a statement, that is, a saying that Ducic said: "Do not hate you too much, because only our opponents benefit from our hatreds." I respect their differences, but don't make a difference between them and us being divided, and don't let them use us against each other like that, because in the end, all those who walk, walk for Gilas, Jeremiah, for millionaires, and I think it's time that they think about supporting millions of citizens who protect their country and who want to put it on their feet together, that the economy will stand on our feet, and then the others who have divided us will use each other against each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-19-0.u53594	The word is made by Minister Sinisha Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-19-0.u53595	Thank you very much. Dear Members, first of all, I would like to thank you for a very constructive and open dialogue and for your comments and suggestions on all these laws that are on the agenda today. On the other hand, just to take the opportunity to remind you and Serbian citizens of a broader context in which Serbia has found itself for the last 15 years. So in 2013, we were a country ahead of bankruptcy, a country that was on the verge of ambition. The situation was due to the very irresponsible decisions of previous authorities and previous authorities, ranging from an increase and pension payment in 2008 to an enormous increase in public debt from 2008 to 2013, from negative growth rates, hence reducing our GDP, from high budget deficits. One of those decisions was these loans in Swiss francs. I don't want to talk about the hypocrisy of those who are now talking about how we're late to help them, and it's just them who introduced those housing loans into our country. I want to talk about something else, which is about our attitude and our behavior and our vision of better Serbia. We fight for Serbia's future, we fight for the future of our children. In 2014, when President Vukic was then prime minister and launched major and difficult reforms, it was not easy and little who believed in their success, but here today you have the result of these reforms, where you have a high growth rate, you have a completely reduced, i.e. a fully balanced public debt compared to GDP, you have a surplus in the budget for the third year in a row, you have a reduction in unemployment rate, we are fighting for every new job, every new factory, every new home of health, clinical center, kindergarten, school. It's a policy for Serbia's future, a policy for our children. Without our children, there is no Serbia. I also see this law on housing loans taken in Swiss francs, and I also see the Law amending the Budgetary System Act where we give an increase in salaries to people who work in preschool institutions, so in kindergartens who work with our children. At this point, we're financially stable. We don't even have credit problems. We pay all our dues in a day. We have the opportunity to help people who are in trouble and it shows how much we as a society have changed. I remember a long time ago when I was little, so with my parents, it was a different situation 20, 25, 30 years ago, and somehow we always wanted to help everyone and the neighbors knew each other, so they helped each other out. I wish that situation would come back again. That's why I want us to fight in this way for the citizens of Serbia and for our children, to help everyone we can, as much as we can, if they need that help. We're not in debt, we're not cutting anyone's rights, so we're telling someone we're reducing, we're giving someone more. No, we want to help as much as we can those who need our help most. That's how I look at this law, that's how I look at the government of the Republic of Serbia, that's how I look at President Vukic's policy. For Serbia's future, because we fight for the future through laws like this and through the daily opening of factories, new kilometers of highways, and all that we do together with Serbian citizens. Thank you again for your constructive dialogue and I look forward to the day of voting for these laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-19-0.u53596	Thank you. According to Article 98(4), I hereby conclude the joint general and uniform examination of the proposals for acts referred to in points 1 to 18 of the agenda. We're working on Tuesday from 10:00 p.m. Thank you.
