ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-10-0.u60295	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the 16th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that the sitting is attended by 89 MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., please insert your cards. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 93 MPs are present in the hall. I'm asking on the basis of article 287. Rules of Procedure, does anyone want to ask a question or ask for a notice or an explanation in accordance with this article? The word is Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-10-0.u60296	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as you know, since October 5th and the coup, i.e. A mob coup that happened at the time in Serbia has been operating in Serbia for 19 years on a very large number of so-called. NGOs, i.e. organisations that are very often, although called NGOs, funded from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, but the primary source of funding are the governments of the Western European states. Then we see that these NGOs have become the main authority on all key political, economic and social issues, that often their opinion, their views, is that they are more important than attitudes, for example. political parties in Serbia, MPs or some other associations and organisations from Serbia. They as the main goal are to maintain the course of the Serbian state, foreign-political orientation towards the EU, European integration, and very often they say publicly that their goal is in fact to establish Euro-Atlantic integration. Recently, if we look at examples from some other countries, we can see that they have seen these problems, such as Hungary, or the Russian Federation. Hungary has also banned one such organisation that is very powerful throughout the world, "The Open Society of George Soros", as well as the Russian Federation. Simply, countries make sovereign decisions that they don't want some foreign powers to set up fate for them, decide on internal issues and tell them what to do with their country and their people. We have recently seen one such example in Serbia. So we saw that George Soros and his organization were able to gather both power and most of the pro-Western opposition for the same table. In less than 24 hours, Soros is able to organise such a meeting in Serbia. In the media, this is like a meeting where, with full legitimacy, it decides what our electoral system, electoral legislation, who can run, who cannot, who participates, who does not participate, and everything else. This is not only the humiliation of the National Assembly, but also the humiliation of Serbia. So, I would refer to Mrs. Ana Brnabic the question -- when will Serbia, by its reputation in Hungary, by its reputation as the Russian Federation, demonstrate its sovereignty, show that it is not a country of limited sovereignty and that it has already made clear to all, to all NGOs, including George Soros' organisation, that they can't ask themselves anything in Serbia, that they are no authority and that we are probably smart enough to decide our most important issues? I'll remind you, in the U.S. and the Russian Federation, everyone who's funded from abroad, of these so-called so-called. NGOs, in public, have to be legitimate in the media as an agent of foreign interest, because these people work for the money of Western governments, and very often do not have their own opinion, but it is precisely the opinion of those governments that finance them. I call on the Government of the Republic of Serbia to show, I suppose, that it does not agree with such a way of working and that we finally show that we are not an ordinary protectorate, but that we are one sovereign country.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-10-0.u60297	Thank you. You're out of time, MP. Natasa Micic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-10-0.u60298	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm going to ask the Prime Minister and the President of the Assembly. In fact, "Sun of Pride" began yesterday, which will hold over 50 events to take place on Sunday, September 15th, and "Parada". And I participated yesterday, and not for the first time, in one of the LGBT Plus stands. And on the question of an activist what I'm going to do for them today, I made a commitment to ask some questions. And I'm doing it with pleasure, because it is part of politics, not only part of politics, but the imperative of LDP policy -- the protection of human rights, especially vulnerable categories, women, Roma, national minorities, LGBT Plus populations. The first question, therefore, concerns the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination, which was brought ten years ago. I ask the question of the Prime Minister and the President of the Assembly, in terms of the government's control function, what will they do to carry out an analysis, or monitoring the application of the law, as this year marks the 10th anniversary? We know that there are problems in the caselaw itself, in the unification of this case-law, but also in the character of the case, it is often not carried out as an emergency. The second issue, also for the Prime Minister and the Speaker of the Assembly, LDP submitted drafts of the law in March -- a law on the registration of same-sex communities and amendments to the Family Law and the Law on Gender Identity. Will the Prime Minister and the President of the Assembly use authority to put these draft laws on the agenda and help us secure the parliamentary majority? We don't mind the government making such proposals, because the same case was 10 years ago with anti-discrimination law. We submitted our proposal, but we supported Vladin later. I think it is the duty of all of us to contribute to living normally in this country, to respect and apply laws, and to adopt new laws that will make all citizens of this country free to live, and if they are not equal, they are neither free. The least we can do is make sure these laws are passed, and also that those who were previously adopted are respected. I think we've lost too much time in value confusion and it's time for some values to crystallize, that it's simply a civilization need for every man in this country to live freely and protected.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-10-0.u60299	Thank you. The word is Gjorge Komlenski.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-10-0.u60300	Thank you, Chairman. I also refer the issue to the Republic Government, noting that it is also likely to refer to the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications, the Ministry of Culture and Information, but I think it might also refer to certain services of the Ministry of Interior, which deal with intelligence and counterintelligence. We are witnessing frequent events that point to an organised Croatian action aimed at overturning the history of Serb victims of Ustasha terror and a Serbian contribution to the fight against fascism. Namely, one of the latest events came as a blow by Google, or YouTube. Namely, the web newspaper "Serbian info" has been downloaded from YouTube and it is forbidden to broadcast, list the press, and it quoted Alexander Vulin as saying about the victims of Jasenovac and other victims of the Serbian people during the events of the 1990s in Croatia. They banned it and indicated that they had violated the "Youtube" guidelines for hate speech. An obvious attempt to reverse the truth about Croatian crimes, World War II, wars of the 1990s has been made. Obviously, this action is very well organized and we, as a state, must do something urgently. What I think should be done, which is that the Republic Government is urgently addressing Google, which otherwise has its headquarters in Dublin, where there are controllers in Dublin for these situations that cover our region. According to information I have, I'm building on their accuracy, I haven't had time to check them, but they're very indicative, there are four controllers for our region, two are from BiH and two are from Croatia. Is that something he's saying? I think he's serious about this because this happened on September 3rd. The opposition to the portal "Serbian info" was rejected within a record six hours, which has never occurred at Google and in their treatment of objections. So, there is obvious pressure and there is an obvious impact and an attempt to prevent everything that is true about Jasenovac and all events and to prevent it from autocensuring all those who depend on YouTube or at all on Google. The following is the ban on the entry of our soldiers and cadets, who went to Jasenovac on September 7th to pay tribute. It's supposed to be a disputed protocol, missing a report, which is absolutely not true, everything is reported and neat. They even wanted to leave their uniforms and to leave without uniforms and carry out their task, and they were not allowed to do so, and otherwise, to remind them, in Mathausin in 2017, even in the presence of Minister Alexander Vulin, in uniforms, honoring the victims that took place there. So we can no longer close our eyes to one obvious hickey, because the truth is that Jasenovac was the camp, that it was the ugliest factory of death during World War II, which the Germans were also creeping out. There were over 700,000 victims of Serbs, Jews, Roma, and even some Croats. We must not allow this kind of truth to end, that some generations that follow YouTube, who follow the Internet, cannot come to the truth tomorrow or in perspective, because in this way they can put pressure on our people who bring it up, they can start with auto-censorship. If we miss something like this, to react now, we'll probably have a warrant through YouTube to celebrate the Storm, as it is largely celebrated on N1 television, but it can, it's cross-border or unregistered television, and maybe we'll experience hearing that Jasenovac or some other camps weren't death factories, but they were children's kindergartens or orphanages, where children were fed and raised.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-10-0.u60301	The word has Vladimir Djuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-10-0.u60302	Thank you. Elections were held Sunday for the Medvedje Municipality Assembly, and the first issue I refer to the interior minister. These are photos taken from the Insider portal, so I'd like the minister to say or one of the traffic police officers for the Medvedja municipality - whose vehicles are these? These are vehicles that were moving on the election day without registration plates, which is at least a traffic violation, and there's probably something else, so it would be very good to know who owns these vehicles and why they're not disabled in traffic without license plates. The next issue is also related to the electoral process and to the harmonisation and compliance of the electoral environment that is happening in Serbia these days at several levels, whether it is a dialogue at the Faculty of Political Sciences or a working group of the government that has recently been formed for the adoption of the OSCE recommendations and led by the interior minister. Let's start with the Ministry of Culture and Information. Are we interested in changing and supplementing the Law on Electronic Media in relation to the OSCE recommendations on the work of the electronic media regulator, which the OSCE has given since the 2017 presidential elections? It is recommended that the supervisory activities of the electronic media regulators be explicitly extended to all aspects of reporting on the elections, to prescribe the obligation of proactive use of electronic media regulators, to define precisely what that regulator must do, rather than to be left to the independent will of the electronic media regulators, to prescribe the adoption of fast and timely solutions that will sanction the behaviour of participants in the election campaign during the campaign itself. Then, the Minister of Justice and Minister of Business, are there any plans to amend the Law on the Prevention of Corruption, the Law on Public Enterprises that would regulate the abuse of public resources during the election campaign, and could be suspected that this is one of such examples, since it can be assumed that vehicles are owned by certain public enterprises and that perhaps the tables are just because they were downloaded, so that it could not be explicitly established? The OSCE's recommendation is that the abuse of public resources by participants in the election campaign is more sanctioned in order to achieve the deterrence effect of repeating these criminal and criminal acts. Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government, also a question from the OSCE's domain of recommendations for amending and correcting electoral legislation and the general election environment – are the amendments to the Law on the financing of political activities in line with the OSCE recommendations, where it is stated that the law should be regulated, for example, the financing of a referendum campaign and the elections for local community councils? It is recommended that restrictions be imposed on individual costs of the election campaign, as well as on the total costs of the election campaign that participants can make in the election process, as our election campaigns today are largely racing in the abnormal spending of money between rich and poor, and in any case the money spent on election campaigns in Serbia is inappropriate to the economic moment and state in which the country is located and the standard of living of citizens. Is the obligation of the Anti-Corruption Agency to use its powers proactively? This is one of the recommendations, and similar to the one given to the work of the electronic media regulators, that the authorities responsible for controlling the conduct of the electoral process and the control of the behaviour of participants in the electoral process are legally forced to use their powers proactively, and not to be able to say that certain things were not mandatory to do and then have the possibility of selective law enforcement. It is also recommended to finance at the local electoral level, as the funds approved for participation in local elections and for local parliaments are absolutely insufficient for settlement and the most basic costs. One small recession and a note to citizens who ask – what will public money do to participants in the election process? It is useful to say that in over 82% of the money to finance political activities in the OSCE countries comes from public sources, not from private sources, just to prevent the capture of public policies in favour of large private donors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-10-0.u60303	The word is Danica Bukvić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-10-0.u60304	I would like to begin by commending the work and commitment of the current government in its efforts to provide its citizens with a better life. We're witnessing that success. Today, we can boast of economic growth, GDP growth, an increasing number of foreign investments, as well as a reduction in the unemployment rate. However, there has been a lot of talk lately about the departure of our workers to work abroad with the intervention of the National Employment Service. There are criticisms from employers and trade unions about how we're getting the most valuable personnel, the personnel in which the state invested a lot of money. We also hear criticism that such intervention of the National Employment Service is contrary to the interests of citizens, domestic economy and state. Foreign job with the intervention of the National Employment Service, which is in line with the Employment and Insurance Act in the event of unemployment, our citizens are mainly looking for employment agreements in countries with which the state of Serbia has concluded employment agreements. In the first place, it's Germany. The employment agreement with Slovenia has also entered into force since 1 September, and the competent ministry is also negotiating with Qatar, Russia and Malta. By exercising his right under Article 277. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to ask for an explanation and a notice from Minister Djordjevic, but also from the National Employment Service - how much in the last year through the National Employment Service, has the citizens been employed in Serbia, and how much has they found abroad with the intervention of the National Employment Service? Which structure, or staff, do the most go abroad? How is the departure of our workers to work abroad reflected on the domestic market, i.e. do the personnel in the deficits on the domestic market go away? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-10-0.u60305	The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-10-0.u60306	Thank you. I would like to join this question, colleague Bukvic, and I would ask the competent service to forward this answer to me, because I think the public is very interested in this, when it comes to the activities of our Employment Service, in fact whose employment it benefits more? Either way, in this term I usually ask some questions about the state, Kosovo, relations in the region with the former republics and foreign policy issues. But the state manifests both the performance and the efficiency of a country and the efficiency of both the big ones and the small ones, but only in the quotes of small and life things. In that sense, my first question, this was only associated, goes to the address of the Ministry of Ecology, and the Ministry of Interior, and concerns these ruthless scenes and incidents that have been happening in various places in Serbia for a long time, especially in the Old Mountain and some local communities on the Old Mountain. The scenes are ugly and it concerns the construction of a mini power plant. I asked the question when the government was hosting here, but the answer was correct, but formal. Now I would like to ask the Ministry of Ecology, and you will see why I mention the Ministry of Interior, I get a concrete answer to the question – what is actually going on in these local communities on the Old Mountain? What's the deal with building these mini power plants? For me, as a citizen and a layman, these scenes look really bad and they look like rivers, and the rivers are one of our treasures, as well as water in the rest, and we don't have a lot of these treasures, so when they're packed in a pipe and they're dead. But it's now a picture of me or us as ordinary citizens and laymen. Do they have a more professional answer? How's it going with building a mini power plant in the nature park? Clearly, they're forbidden. But I am responsible by the minister, but I now request a written reply that the law has passed the previous authority, whether any approvals and permits have been passed by previous authorities. It's all possible, but I don't care. The point is that we here every minute and very often adopt the amendments and additions to the laws that we previously passed after a month or two. So, if the ministry has a chance to react, let it react. If he lacks legal options, let him appear here with a proposal to solve the problem. If investors are right, then let them protect the investor's right, if they're not, let them break the contracts, deprive those investors, if any compensation belongs to them. So you can see what a serious state is. In that sense, I say that questions are also for the MUP, because these scenes are getting more and more painful to me and God, they're becoming increasingly violent these incidents that are happening in the context of this construction of a mini power plant. I'm saying, not just on the Old Mountain, but now these local communities of Rakita, or Warm Do, are somehow at the centre of attention. So, what happens, but not just in those few local communities, but as things stand, generally with that subject. Is it adopted in time in this euphoria under pressure or with an explanation that it is a world practice, a European manner, etc. but in the end, we can amend the legislation if the legislation prevents it. If everything's okay, then protect the investors, if you don't, like I said, break up the contracts and don't let the country get in this way. It's a bad comfort that it's out there somewhere far away. Which they would say, which is far be and near. My second question goes to the Ministry of Sports. It also concerns these seemingly small but actually important things of life. The Ministry of Sports, which could be asked a lot of things, but I'm just asking, here's two things -- when and on the basis of which the Ministry of Sports discussed and made a decision on the support and construction of six, I'm not talking about a national stadium right now, I've already asked for this national stadium that I think is absolutely excessive and unnecessary, especially as it is about a football stadium, even regardless of how our team plays. So, I'm talking about six stadiums in Serbia, worth 20m euros in places where football is almost gone and where it's completely dead. Secondly, the most important question -- how did it happen that our country didn't participate in the University for the first time? Even during the sanctions, our athletes took part in the University, now they're behind. I think this is just the last thing, not to talk about football stadiums and some other sports ministry affairs where there's enough reason for a minister of sports to either resign or to take a serious and fat explanation, although I'm suggesting more of that first. So, believe me, our country didn't have any participants at the university for the first time, and I think it's a scandal.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-10-0.u60307	Thank you. The word is Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-10-0.u60308	Thank you. Chairman, I'm glad you're chairing the session. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, yesterday, so on September 9th, 26 years of one of the most terrible crimes against Serbs in Republika Srpska was committed by Croatia to so-called Croatia. Operation Bear pocket. This crime, also known as "Blood September in Lica", began on 9 September 1993 with a surprise attack by the Croatian military on the underground villages of Lica, Divoselo, Citluk, Pocitel and Medak. This aggression against Croatia has been the third in a row of aggression against the Republika Srpska Krajina since spring 1992, when Republika Srpska was placed under the international protection of the UN peacekeeping forces, so-called UNPROFOR. The first was the attack on Miljevaci Plato at Drnis on 21 June 1992, when 40 Serbian territorial and militiamen were killed and massacred. Then, half a year later, on January 22, 1993, there was an aggression called "Operation Maslenica", namely an attack on the flats in northern Dalmatia, when 348 soldiers and civilians of Serbian nationality were killed, and more than 10,000 Serbs were exiled from these areas. Many Serbian villages in the area were completely destroyed and burned, and a particularly serious crime was the massacre in the Velebit turn of Mali Alan when 22 members of the Serbian army of Krajina were killed and massacred. It was followed by an attack on the "Medac pocket", when 88 Serbs were killed or missing, of which 46 soldiers, six militiamen and 38 civilians, 26 older than 60, including 17 women and in this aggression were completely burned, robbed and destroyed villages of Medak, Pocitel, Citluk and Divoslo. The crimes in The Hague tribunal were indicted by Croatian military commanders Janko Bobetko, the commander of the then General Staff of the Croatian Army, Rahim Ademi, military commander Gospić and Mirko Norac, commander of the 9th Guard Brigade. Janko Bobetka's indictment was not even served because he passed away in April 2003, and the UN tribunal transferred the case to the Croatian judiciary in September 2005 and that was the first case for The Hague tribunal to hand over a case to a national court. As a result, Rahim Ademi was released, and Mirko Norac was sentenced to, I would say, symbolic seven years for acts of non-preventing the murder of civilians, looting property, killing and torturing prisoners of war, so that later the Supreme Court of Croatia would reduce his sentence to six years, so in 2010. During the trial itself, gruesome details and testimonies were heard about the monstrous crimes and the experiences of the Serb people, such as pushing women on a stake, cutting off their heads, decommissioning, throwing women into their own houses, and then burning and other monstrosities. Specially important is the testimony of the commanders of the United Nations forces in Croatia, French General Jean-Cott, since 19 September 1903, after a complete tour of this area. On that occasion, he stated: “I have found no signs of life, no people, no animals in several villages that we have been through. The destruction was completely systematic and deliberate." The result of this aggression is that this area has been completely devastated ever since. According to the 1991 census, 563 people lived in the village of Medak, a vast majority of Serbs, today only 60, in the village of Pocitel 307, today three, in the village of Chitluk 129, today three, in Divosle of 344 people no longer exist. Given that almost no one has been responsible for these crimes, I ask the foreign ministry a question – are all the measures available so far during bilateral meetings with Croatian officials and in order to find and process all those responsible for this and other crimes? I end up in the next sentence, until this happens, until the Croats face their past, until they stop their daily history review, as well as my colleague Komlenski talked about, until they stop the daily beating of basic human rights of Serbs and the rehabilitation of the constitution, Croatia cannot plead to be a democratic and European state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-10-0.u60309	Thank you. We're moving on to work. MPs who were prevented from attending today are Natasa Mihailovic Vacic and Snezana Petrovic. We're continuing our work. We are moving on to a joint principled search on the draft laws referred to in points 3, 4 and 5 of the agenda. The explanation was given yesterday by Minister of Education Mladen Sarcevic. I would ask the parliamentary groups if they had not already done so to report immediately with the order of MPs, in accordance with Article 157(2). Rules of Procedure. I am opening a joint principled search on the draft law amending and supplementing the patent law, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Copyright and Related Rights and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Topography of Semiconductive Products. I ask the representative of Prime Minister Sarcevic if he wants to supplement something from yesterday's presentation. No, I don't. Thank you. I give my word to Natasha Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-10-0.u60310	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have an area that is very complex and that requires real attention as to how the whole public, those who live on copyright work and all the MPs, not only because of the fact that this is one in a series of amendments to this law, but because the issues that treat the copyright of life are vital to the survival of many branches and businesses, cultures, at the end of education and everything that makes life in Serbia. Mr. Minister, we have come to the conclusion that this law is also proof that internationalisation of Serbian legislation is something continued by this government, just as the first Dosmanlian after 2000 began. We were also MPs in the National Assembly in 2004 when the first law was passed in that Dosmanlian government on copyright and related rights, we gave a number of remarks and suggestions, just as the SRS parliamentary group did and when the law was amended and we submitted over 60 amendments. That it is a disaster for Serbian legislation also tells the fact that this law, just like many others that have been done under European Union directives, and because of the public, to say that this amendment to the Law on Copyright and Related Rights has been done on the basis of eight of the 10 directives and I would not be surprised, Mr Minister, that in a regular autumn session, you must come before the MPs with one more amendment, because you have proposed this to the National Assembly before the European Parliament passed a new Law on Copyright and Related Rights, they did so in April of this year, at the request of Google and the owners of large companies that are actually social networks that prevail over the global internet market, but then. That's how we make the laws. Instead of looking up to some famous examples from the past. Because, if you did not know, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, among the few directed are colleagues Martinovic, who is a doctor of legal science and administrative right, something he has in his small finger, so it is possible that fellow Atlagic, who is a professor of the University, and another, colleague Stojmirovic, that you know that Serbia treated this issue in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia on the basis of the Berlin Convention back in 1930. Later in postwar Yugoslavia, then SFRY, 1971, the Federal Assembly ratified an amended and updated Berlin Convention. It is just saying that countries that are signatories and have ratified it do not have to strictly have their national framework for copyright and related rights to apply as some other countries that are signatories, and you are, by being in a hurry and thinking that you will enter the European Union, and therefore the last member of this law and says that the law will cease to apply by entering Serbia into the European Union, which will never happen and we will do anything to prevent it, so you are passing a law that you know in advance that is doomed to fail. How much, firstly, technical, legal, grammatically illiterately done, you'll see through the amendments. We had one position at a time in key law members to change, to correct language, here, and the president of Mrs Gojkovic's Assembly, which is indeed the most commendable thing, to advocate the strict application of the Serbian language, we had to change literally the whole sentences and attitudes in the law, to adapt to our Serbian language. First of all, we were thinking, Mr. Minister, that we should delete one member of the law, because large associations, such as Sokoy, as regards this Law on Copyright and Related Rights, have requested his immediate withdrawal. You can't do what you call it. Public debate, and to make a selection of who you're going to call, who's going to give you instructions, the one who fits the EU's views, yeah, that's good for us to give us some objections and suggestions, then another round goes by, we say -- great, we're done, and now we're passing a law that's unspoken, which is inadmissible. After all, Mr. Minister, you are here in the whole situation, perhaps neither guilty nor debtor. Here, there are a lot of lawyers and lawyers and people who are from that profession. Why do you need an area of copyright and related law in your ministry? Here, you're wondering. So it's not natural for copyright and related rights and patents to be in your ministry at all. It's the legal authority. Here, and Mrs. Gojkovic is a lawyer and lawyer, my colleague Mandic is here behind me, and how many lawyers are in our parliamentary group, this is the subject being studied in law school, the legal area, because the law also says he requires judicial protection. Why is this law proposed if he breaks down to see who are the consequences for who he's breaking? Who's gonna find out? They'll determine the court. Why, then, in this law, Mr. Minister, the full description of the court's case for a possible violation of copyright? Well, that's not the subject of this law at all. If someone commits a violation of copyright and related rights, they must be found in court proceedings, and the epilogue will see what it will be like, and we have various examples from recent history. Do I have to remind you, I think that now this unfortunate pensioner, a dirty, hardworking plagiarist, was then an SRS reviewer, was Professor Atlagic, a snide plagiar Stevan Lilić, a regular professor of law school, a whole book he wrote from the famous professor of the pre-war Faculty of Law, Laza M. Kostic, an administrative right published by Geca Kom, before the war and appeared as his textbook in front of students. We launched a court dispute, stamped out in public, but these dosmanias didn't mind, he continued to harass. You may think that these yellow unfortunates during any authentic interpretation of a member of the Constitution, the idiot, who is a plagiarist, who stole the work of a famous scientist to make him an authentic interpretation of a member of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Such examples, unfortunately, Mr. Minister, now that's your area, it's a lot of law school, and if you had a bit of a scratch now, if you looked at it, you'd see that all of them went there for them as a happy environment that gives this law to illustrate to quotes a situation in its scientific field. It is simply not possible, because the author's work is not possible in the sense of how they did it, by tearing it out of context, by showing it as their scientific opus, because why some MPs say - I quote, I quote, it's finished, someone's quote, it's funny, but if you're someone's scientific thesis, the original work, because the author's work is a spiritual work of a man, it can't do a computer or an animal. I'm gonna do a little depression, maybe you'll laugh, but that case really ended up in a Indonesian court with that selfie of macaque monkeys. The man helped him set up the phone, but the selfie wasn't his, so the photo wasn't from monkeys, it was from the man who helped him turn on the camera. And, no, we have a reverse situation here, that people who are supposed to be moral, who hold to the ethical code, to professionalism, abuse someone's building, and that's also at the end of it, and that's the cultural, ethnic and historical heritage in the most brutal, most unsavory way, and that's what regular professors of individual universities and universities in the country do. Imagine, at law school that should be a legal center, for something that's right and in law enforcement. This law has a lot of indetermination because the very definition of what the author's work is doesn't give anyone the right to find the so-called. A hole in the law and to play with it. It's precisely this law because it's not accurate enough to bring to the end that we'll have anyone who knows how much, and maybe none of them will know how to defend their right to litigation in civil litigation, in front of the Administrative Court because people won't know how to get to the point of protecting their work. You have now said – in the development of this IT technology at the so-called Internet crime, in developing this sector in our country, needs all these people, individuals who make an unequivocal contribution that Serbia has as one of its very important export components, which are software, various programs, to protect these people. This simply, this law will not be possible because you have agreed to pass the law under EU rules, and that convention signed by more than 170 countries in the world I have talked about is mainly all the countries that are members of the UN, it says nicely that copyright protection does not have an international character. Explain to me now, please, some famous photographer, beautiful tourist areas from our country, here it can be my fellow citizen, Zoran Petrovic, famous photographer Dragan Bosnic or someone else, how to seek the legal protection of his copyright before some court, say in Britain or elsewhere, in the United States, if SNN, I say hypothetically, or some other magazine takes over his photograph? It's simply not possible because these people aren't protected. Here, just when you list at the beginning what is all the author's work, you didn't even recognize the photograph in the way they asked you to, you can't protect your photos in Serbia either because in the era of the Internet of various programs, modulation, every child will be shading, by some additional photoshopping, so on. By cropping or so on, that original photograph to modulate on its own needs and to display it as its own. Secondly, you did not recognize if you wanted to be modern, but not as the EU tells you, but as reality and the possibility of doing so is similar to photography, and these are images from these new technologically equipped drones depicted as authorial work. Don't think now that everything that comes from the EU is applicable to Serbia. No, because many disputes are being fought, and many people are not protected from working relationships for their works. That's why it's absolutely unacceptable, Mr. Minister, not to go into this detail now that someone's right to use their copyright while in a working relationship and we have submitted an amendment to that employer for five years. It's simply not fair and it's not correct, because you know, the one who works for a salary, does it to do the job correctly, but if you said – in a period of time when the publication or something is printed, here's specific about these photographers who do these publications that are intended for the market and not just commercial use, but simply that people have insight into what's going on in some part of the country. So, first of all, you've been incorrect to these people, and yet I have to mention this photographer who's been running the dispute with the organization he's been working in, in his hometown in Kragujevac, because they stole his authorial work. And it lasts and lasts. It's just that a lot of people are going to get into this situation, like you saw those law school professors do. This law has not defined the problem that libraries have. We at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have a real treasure of library building, a legacy that the National Assembly has since its existence, and indeed, that does not sound pretentious because it is someone I know, I must commend Mrs Stojanovic's work, who has made an effort to systematicise this building in a number of years how much this work is doing. Believe me, the librarians, she, I'm sure, she knows, but in many libraries in Serbia, they don't know when they're capable of breaking copyright, and when they're not, because you just come as citizens, you're a member of the library and you say, "Good afternoon -- good afternoon, give me that book for use." Of course, that book is available to you, and these works of art go on, exploiting themselves with incredible speed and inflation, as the popular students now say, the riders, the scripts, and that it's simply not possible, because that someone has protected the author's work. The author's work is protected after the author's death in the next 70 years, right? Well, then how is it possible to commit such abuses? Because neither the law until the end defined nor to tell these people nicely as long as they are allowed to go not only when it comes to citizens, but also institutions, because in the institutions of this country taking over and passing on certain methodologies, certain knowledge is free of charge, or no compensation is paid to the author, and there are numerous abuses, because we have had cases that we and certain legal proposals come with the use of some of the methodological, scientific and other research done by some people, and then it occurred to someone, it was mostly those "yellows" in their government, to integrate it in the bill or thus performs using scientific research by some individual. Mr. Minister, it's not really fair and correct to put something on your back and back that will make it very negative for the public's clothing that protects the copyright of interpreters, composers, writers of texts and their fees. You should have, before this law came to the assembly procedure for the fee paid, which, of course, should exist in a minimum amount, and not to yell at our entrepreneurs, to listen to the opinion of the Association of Employers of Serbia, on the one hand, and on the other hand to listen to the opinions of the leading SOKOJ people who, as I said at the beginning of this debate, asked for the withdrawal of this law from the procedure. You are now given the opportunity to sign a contract with that association that will distribute revenue. What do you need that for, Mr. Minister? What are you even involved in? They're gonna make a deal with each other. After all, there is no need to make a monopoly or a lobby in order to pick up a Kajmak, or that money. They need to decide who's going to represent them. Which is the majority association to compete and let it say - we have the largest number of members, we are the ones who have legitimacy and we are the ones who need to collect incomes, and not that this is done in this way, so tomorrow as a minister, you get into an awkward situation and your ministry that doesn't need to do it at all again, because you're here now and, besides this isn't your area, you're thinking about income, right, from music, so on. the dinar, or how it will be deployed. It was simply better for you, since this is a strictly imposed solution from Chapters or Directives, to withdraw the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-10-0.u60311	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-10-0.u60312	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my question is, does the deceased have the right to copyright? When a man dies, do his heirs have any copyright rights that the deceased had? I will give an example of academic honesty to Danica Popovic, Faculty of Economics. That's what I've been talking about here, but it's left undetected. Just because of the academics and their congratulations, I'm obliged to repeat this. Does the late Professor Stojan Babic have rights? Did he translate the textbook, I think that international contracts or economies, together with Danica Popovic, were editors, translated 55% of textbooks, were signed, was that his authorial work? I think so, and you'll answer me later. The man died. Danica Popovic began, I think, in 2019 she deleted Prof. Stojan Babiæ from his textbook and as an interpreter led herself and her assistant. The student discovered that both textbooks are identical, that the late Stojan Babic was erased after death, that his author's work was erased, and that such a thing can only be erased by moral misery of yellow. Is that a violation? Even Ivan Vujacic, president of the Ethics Commission, opened the procedure to determine that. Scientifically-teached is more than 80.75 professors voted to initiate a procedure against moral academically congratulated Danica Popovic, but, behold, the university has included a member from the Faculty of Political Sciences in the commission. Now I ask you, what does political science have to do with the Faculty of Economics? It's the opposite of what they're doing to Sinishi Mali. For him, they asked all the members to be from that profession, but this time they can do it the other way around. So, I could ask you if our university, or that great chief, is yellow? I think you'll give me a correct answer for this. The next question I ask is about the great second thunder that has been haunting us for days. It's about Dusan Teodorovic, a professor of Traffic College. Minister, are you aware that the teacher's obligation was to teach in 1999? Do you know he's a professor? Dusan Teodorovic fled to America? He saw it from Sergei Trifunovic, so he prescribed it. Is that running away while he had an obligation to teach, to move on to the aggressor side? That's what Sergei Trifunovic did. He prayed until he begged to escape to the aggressor side. That's what Dusan Teodorovic did. The Dean warned him. Since he didn't respond to class, he'd rule him out of Traffic College. Now I ask you to answer me, do you know how he is returned? From what I know, this is Serbian Turajlic, this second moral, third moral gromat from this yellow leech, that she returned it with her own decree. She seems to be an assistant or deputy to Gaša Knezevic. Is it possible that those people who fled to the aggressor side during the most severe sufferings of the state and the people, regardless of political commitment, is it possible to return someone by decree? What kind of academically decent man and example can this be to his students, and what kind of academic example of SANU? I really don't know if it's a Serbian or American Academy of Sciences? Well, he'd be thrown out for treason and at the American Academy of Science, no matter what he didn't betray their country. With them is the principle. Whoever betrays his land will also betray them. Is it possible it could be an academic? Is it possible to get him back to being a professor after he escaped to the aggressor side? During the war, special rules apply. I was eight times in the National Assembly because I was a National MP. I didn't have to, but it was an obligation. When the work obligation applied to all, many MPs came to the National Assembly that was a military goal. And the academic who tells us about academic honesty and morality, escaped, escaped. How come Jovo Bakic didn't catch up with him? How come Jovo Bakic didn't chase him down the streets, or maybe Sergei Trifunović and Dusan Teodorovic were running along the streets of Washington and New York? How could Jovo Bakic not find them there? How come he didn't put them in some sea, etc., next to that statue of freedom? Freedom, the statue of freedom in the alliance of states that eliminated one shell race, it kind of doesn't work for me, but come on. It is a hypocrisis, as well as Jovo Bakic, as Dusan Teodorovic, as Danica Popovic. What the plagiarism committee will do, it remains on them. I'm not getting involved in this. But Danica Popovic certainly can't teach her students anymore, as she excluded her late colleague from her textbook. There's no greater moral misery than that. Ladies and gentlemen, Jovo Bakic is three times chosen as a doctor. I'm not really a professor, but I've heard it can be twice. Now he's recently become an extraordinary professor, finally. I've seen scientific papers on this international site. I found Atlagic twice. I found Mark Atlagic twice. "Topson", that's what it's called, but Danice Popovic doesn't have an economic college, no Jova Bakic, they're gone. So their work is worth nothing. Maybe it's Jova Bakic's job to chase me, his authorial work is to chase me down the streets, not just me. It could be his authorial work, Pavelic. Only Pavelic would release Serbs to the Danube and Sava. After him, Jovo Bakic did it. Is there a country in this country, I'm asking you? Is there any desire at the Ministry of Education that those who advocate academic honesty, and the harshest are being violated, are being disciplined, for the sake of students, not for me? What student is Janko Veselinović teaching? Do you read his works, or misdemeanors? Well, I feel sorry for the students Janko Veselinović teaches. What can they learn from him? Teachers must first learn and keep learning to teach others, to convey knowledge. Tell me, what transfer of knowledge, let's let someone tell me, what transferable knowledge can Janko Vesenović convey? If he had lived in East Germany, Poland, he wouldn't be able to participate in a socio-political life. You'd be lustrated. A man who went out during communism, who was not my order, and asked to go one step further, to ban certain communist comrades from speaking, and he should teach students, academics, a man who went out to the 14th Congress and said that he banned himself, read the list, the video, that the team and those comrades were forbidden to speak. That's amazing. I believe you'll give me answers. You are probably not in charge of copyright on N1 television, on Nova S. I ask you – how do they respect copyright? These are the media that are registered in Luxembourg. First I got an answer from REM that they broadcast a program from Ljubljana. The Slovenian regulator says – that is not true. They are not registered in Slovenia and do not broadcast the programme. So it's an initial source program, it's broadcasting, providing media services to the general public. It's a broadcast. So they sent me to Luxembourg. Luxembourg says they can be registered there as media, in Luxembourg, that they do not have to broadcast the programme and not broadcast it for the Luxembourg area. Now I ask you, Minister, what are they re-emitting in Belgrade? They consider themselves cross-border television. As unregistered media, they pay nothing to Sokoya. What copyright do they pay for? They don't pay REM, RATL, they don't pay taxes. They're smuggling. They're pirate television. Their founder is in Luxembourg. They don't broadcast in Luxembourg. It says – re-emissioning, these are these cross-border channels, for example, I will quote BN, RAI Uno, Eurosport etc. Re-emission is at the same time download of programs, unchanged programs, without termination, distraction, advertising, etc. Re-emissioning is, at the same time, taking over the program. So it's being broadcast somewhere, so it's being rerouted here at the same time. Those in Luxembourg, as the Luxembourg regulator and the Luxembourg government say, do not broadcast a programme. With that answer, it's all illegal. It's illegal 13 Sport Channel Club. It's illegal for Nova S. It's illegal for N1 television. They are not the Luxembourg media, they are the pirate media from Serbia that broadcast the programme from New Belgrade. When you want to sue N1 television, you get the answer that you can't sue, hence copyright, because they're not registered as a media service provider in REM as an electronic media, they're not even registered in the APR. Now I ask: Who protects the rights of those who are damaged in that case? You can't sue them here. They even rework other cross-border channels, throwing out foreign ads, inserting Serbian ones. So, the media that works here on black, which rem, RATEL and Sokoya pay nothing, endangers domestic media that are registered and live off commercials and further threatens them by broadcasting Serbian ads. With domestic media SBB pays nothing, nothing, even some domestic media pay to be included in the cable. What's a repeater in broadcasting broadcasting broadcasting services, it's a cable. You can choose a pillar or a cable. For the program, cameramen, installers, etc., authors, don't get anything from the SBB. They take the finished product and release the program, they pay nothing. These guys have to live off that church thing, the commercial. On the other hand, their fake cross-border channels, which pay nothing to this state, pay several euros per user, pumping up a subscription paid by Serbian citizens. Domestic media doesn't get anything, Serbian citizens pay for fake Solakov's cross-border media. These are the cross-border media United Media, linked to United Group, Solak, and for God's sake, there is a "Darrekt Media", meaning related to Gilas. Now I'm asking you, when someone picks up and throws in domestic commercials, and throws in domestic commercials, and takes 20 million more, I'm asking you, what's left to the domestic media than to shut down? They create a media landscape. Imagine N1 television, which is reportedly a cross-border television, which took part and will again participate in the election campaign and create electoral political conditions for political entities during the campaign and elections. They don't interfere with the Luxembourg elections, they don't know when they are, but they interfere with Serbian elections, not only between four years, or two years, when the elections are, but in an election campaign. Let's say, in America, they're calling America, in America there for Russia if there was anything on the Internet, mixing Russia, etc. Here unregistered television affects the creation of a political mile, creating a media landscape, etc. Imagine if we were to open television in France and say, "We're cross-border television, etc., and we're broadcasting a program against the French government, French parties, we're still broadcasting French commercials, we're taking bread from their televisions, I'm asking you how long would we last there?" Not a month. Not for two days. They'd arrest us all and ask for damage to the French television channels. We're here, I'm afraid we don't. We justify them for the freedom of the media, which they say is gone, and we are willing to release the unregistered media, through which the money is pumped. Do you know that SBB's revenues in the region are 500m euros, only SBB, without the Darect Media, United Media, etc? And then you wonder where Gilasu 619m euros came from? Ask School how much money he made, pump it out of here? When does he pay for fake cross-border pirate television? He pumps up the money, pumps up the profits, and that's called - how? Money laundering and tax evasion. Why isn't REM doing his job? Because he's bound to shut down, order the SBB to shut down the pirate channels. REM doesn't do that. Now it needs to be completed with three members. And hence Gilas's alarm for the School, for the cross-border channels. 'Cause if REM's up to three new members and he starts doing his job, he's gonna have the SBB shut down those channels, and then they can't pump the money anymore. And then, since they sold it, they're showing a loss here, they sold themselves to a B.C. partner for 2.6 billion. I ask you, as an entrepreneur, who can pay a loser 2.6 billion? Can anyone who sees this exit pipe out there pay 2.6 billion. What happens if REM starts doing his job? In a contract that Solak and Gilas have with the buyer, likely, if there has been an error in the previous five years, which is why the new buyer suffers, the damage must be paid by the previous administration. So, Solak and Gilas. That's where the panic's coming from. That's where they're looking for REM, or REM or nothing. If we give them REM, we'll be the most democratic state. Because REM needs to start doing its job, both for copyright and for subscribers from Serbia, because money is pumping out. We all think N1 television is funded by Americans. No, she's funded by Serbs. And N1 TV journalists get paid when they're not registered here? From Luxembourg? Let's check it out. That's not true. Yugoslavia's Ćosic has created a "Adria News" parade that pays journalists out of so they don't lose their salary. What's it called? Can your company pay off third-party workers? Of course he can't, because it's a capital pump and he gets it. What's the IRS doing? What are all these police doing, etc? Let's put that robbery on hold sometime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-10-0.u60313	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-10-0.u60314	Dear MPs, the Honorable President-in-Office, of course, is in some part and illogically where I come from here on this set of laws. But in large countries, this problem is solved by a special ministry. Our state of Serbia is not so big that it would have dozens of other ministries, so the link with the Ministry of Education, above all science, is in the patent zone and the part of intellectual property that relates precisely to scientific work. The Ministry of Culture and many other ministries are participating here in this business. Like when it comes to stamps, it's business, industrial property. There's a lot of fields there, so the question is whether this agency is best arranged, and we need to ask ourselves that question. I guess I'm here because I have the longest internship longer than the opposition. That's why I'm here more often with you. So don't mind. What's important, the Law on Electronic Media is something that needs to answer most of your questions, but when it comes to Sokoya and the other organization, they have no reason now, according to old regulations, not to sue for copyright and use. So, all these associations that you mentioned and how they should meet their boards of directors why they don't press charges and charge their obligations. I'm not responsible for that, because they're all independent bodies, as you know. I'd be more likely to respond to the first part of your exposure, which has to do with copyright. I'm saying this very reliably, because I've had a video of the entire process of events that were at the Faculty of Economics. First, I'd like to meet this great home that part of the opposition is involved with part of the so-called section. the academic sector, which does not respect the Law on Higher Education, where political events cannot take place in any institution, from kindergarten to college, and it writes, and then the managers of these institutions must take the measures prescribed by law. So, in some third hand, I made warnings in terms of talking to these people. When the former rector, who became the rector of the door-to-door, never elected, "One of the five million", Mrs. Bogdanovic, turned to a megaphone from the Faculty of Philosophy. On my statement that you can't do that in college, it came down to the plateau. Come on, if it's any good. Also, Galjina Ognjanov is a professor at the Faculty of Economics who used a college e-mail to invite people to demonstrations, which is a purely political story. So I ask the authorities of the Faculty of Economics - what did they do, and I ask them publicly? The second thing, the event that happened, which you mentioned in part, is true, is that someone usurped other people's copyrights, but it happened that the students in the stands that should be engaged in academic honesty, because students also belong to my ministry, I have the best possible relationship with them, I should protect them in some situations, which I do, have kept a certain space and you mentioned Professor Todorovic, academics, fellow Popovic, but some strange journalists, a strange world gathered there. The tribune where she was a Moderator was not a matter of honesty, but of pure politics, insulting Professor Giurishin, insulting everything that had come to their mind. The same academic professor at the Faculty of Transport, Teodorovic, explained to students how they should recognise the genocide in Srebrenica and such things. You know, not to talk about it, which has nothing to do with anything normal in this life. So you can't come to an institution and deal with such a flagrant policy, where young people didn't accept it, they totally reacted differently. A student of the master study, one of the best students of the Faculty of Economics, who runs all the companies that are established in that university, according to yesterday's theory when we said that they don't need dual education, so they have over 300 companies to work with, over 400 young students the guy referred to company work and gave employment. They're too far ahead of it. There are extremely high-quality young people, including Aleksandar Jaksic, a student, when completing master studies with 9.4 average and with a ten on master studies. So, an extraordinary guy, the future in the right way and patriotism. He joined the stands and challenged the professorial way of such work and conduct. Since he was figuratively expressing himself, since in Serbia it is hard to prove when you say something figuratively, I felt so bad an echo of the public myself when I once figuratively expressed myself, not literally, because then everyone freely translated and built their structures, that he heard that she also knows that she was passing the cabinet, because she insulted the students. They gave evidence and I have a recording of it. I'm not telling you anything from my head, and it was on the Ethics Commission of the Faculty, where it was asked to have that student kicked out of college by Professor Popovic. The students were very lucid, they took this work, they missed it through antiplagiar software and proved by the same methodology, which was done by Minister Malo, that this work was 70% plagiarism and perhaps more. Of course it has come to this point that most of the Faculty of Economics, which is on the normal side, means, justice, truth, and normal academic behavior, has indeed been congratulating, but the way this commission is formed is a little suspicious, I agree with you, and lobbying within the National Council for High, which gives a fourth member. The students complained to the National Council for High Elections of those members who were personal friends of the mentioned professor, and there are not many reasons for the story of honesty, what I'm saying, I am absolutely familiar with, and I follow the event and the case. The other thing that you brought out, too, I got the same information, from more places, and I gave it to the legal service, I'll be an active man and I'll say what I need to say, and that's whether at that time someone in office at the time of Gisa Knezevic, the deceased, Serbia's Turajlić was a State Secretary or a Deputy, something in that capacity, she gave back professor. Todorovic's in class. It can't be executive power. If I did that, well, I'd be on the terraces hanging. Imagine, an executive minister setting up professors and giving back decrees and choosing deans. Well, I'd run over high school autonomy with a bagger. It can't. That's against the law. We'll see exactly, when we establish legal facts, I don't even know, what law at that time for higher education did it, but none of them ever allowed it. We'll determine the facts exactly when it happened, the professor could have gone, his thing, gone wherever he wanted, to America, but we're talking about going back and getting back to Traffic College. If what you're saying is true, and I'm in the research phase, then it's against the law. I'm saying clauseically, that I'm not being respected that I already said it was a dry truth, I said it was being investigated, and that it was the department's legal department's duty to work and to inform the public. So, there's a lot of things I wouldn't comment on the works of some people who are very loud on the street about how much their honesty, the contribution to Belgrade University, the works on SCI lists, you know that much better than I do, he knows. Atlagic may be the best, but it should also be known one day to the public, how much is the contribution, very often zero, or one work, very rarely anyone who has more serious works and does good to our academic community. This isn't a taboo topic, it's not a violation of autonomy, it's really something you need to talk about and talk about. You know why, because of Alexander Jaksic and all these young people who need to get serious educators and educators in us, who will side with the truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-10-0.u60315	Thank you, Minister Sarčević. Honorable Members of Parliament in accordance with Articles 27 and 87 of Opinions 2 and 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working after 18 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to pass laws on the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Mr. Risticevic, you want a replica of Mr. Sarčević's exposure?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-10-0.u60316	It's more of a correction, so I'm using that replica institute. So, I believe that Ms. Danica Popovic will again comment on me with "puj", which is also economically congratulating. I don't have a moment in my life in the right to freedom of choir and speech. So the above - mentioned teachers can be, as far as I'm concerned, political commitment and Jehovah’s Witnesses. Most of them weren't just that yet, most of them changed 10 yellow options, as far as I'm concerned, they can stay in those parties, they can change them three times a year, they can change them more often than a soldier's socks, I don't mind. But I've been saying this for the reasons that you've stated. So, if she's plagiarized something, they have to answer because they claim themselves to be educational moral gromads. My correction refers to the lawsuits that SOKOJ is due to file. In my speech, I said why he couldn't do it, and who listened to me more carefully could hear it. So, N1 TV and Nova S are not registered in Serbia, neither in APR nor in REM as a media service provider, as electronic media. Their lawyers, when sued, answer that they cannot be sued because in Serbia's territory, in Serbia, they are not registered in the APR and are not registered in REM, as an electronic service provider, as an electronic media, and are therefore not subject to the suit. That's why I believe that copyright and related rights no one here can charge or pursue a court dispute, because they'll get the same answer. They're one pirate channel that's not being broadcast in Luxembourg, it can't be re-emissioned here, it just exists in a cable, it exists in our homes. So it's a completely irregular television station, not one, but 20 and something, which is used to pump money from Serbia to various white-world destinations and thus reduces profits here. That is why the SBB is always lost and thus is damaged by all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because they are not a taxpayer even though the programme is produced and broadcast in the Republic of Serbia. In doing so, the work on black endangers domestic media, which loses 20m euros annually on the advertising market alone, plus a subscription that moves 28 billion dinars in Serbia, only in Serbia's territory, only SBB plus related persons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-10-0.u60317	Thank you, Mr. Risticevic. Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word has the mandated representative of the SDPS parliamentary group, MP Branimir Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-10-0.u60318	Thank you, Chairman. The respected chairman-in-Office of respected ministers, representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues, the characteristics of the time in which we live are daily innovation, new brands, different product prospects, protected food products from certain areas, as well as a number of other specificities which produce human spirit and human mind. Modern business today is based on knowledge, creativity, marketing, the introduction of new technological processes. This is why it is important to invent protection, or innovation. In this context, I also observe the draft law amending and supplementing the patent law that is on the agenda today. We need to define the best legal framework that will guarantee protection that no finding should be commercially used, that it must not be designed or sold without the consent of its inventor, or patent holder. The patent must be protected during the prescribed period of time and that is a provision that existed before. Only after that time period can the patent be used for commercial purposes, and in all that time someone else can use it only if it has the consent of the patent bearer. The amendments and additions of the patent law are primarily regulated by the area of relation of the employer-employee. This is something very important that will be used in the future when a patent is created from a working relationship. The goal is to edit more effectively those legal provisions that regulate protection and use of inventions as I have said, which are derived from working relationships. I find legal solutions in a fair way to protect interests and employees who are inventors and employers. First of all, what's important is that it's precisely defined what's considered a patent and what's not considered a patent. When an employee commits himself to innovation, creates innovation and when this innovation is applicable in practice, it has a positive impact on the business of every company, whether to make some savings in business or to increase company productivity, but in any case, it has an increase in company profits. That's why it's important to specify this area. It is also important to protect the interests of the employee who is the finder and interest of the employer who invested and thus contributed to the discovery. In addition to providing social affirmation for creativity for the patent to its carrier, any innovation that is applied on the market needs to provide the innovation carrier with material benefits. These amendments and additions to the law also lay down criteria on the basis of which the remuneration is determined by the employee on behalf of the use of findings from a working relationship. The degree of economic benefit of finding is the most significant criterion when determining the fee for the patent carrier, i.e. finding. Its economic interest is protected, as I have already stated, by the fact that no one can use the find or apply it in practice without its consent, but on the other hand, when establishing this degree of economic usefulness, that is to say, when determining the remuneration for the employee, we must take into account the fact that it came from a working relationship both monetary and material and human resources invested by the employer when determining this fee. There is also a proposal to delete Article 65. A law that prescribes that the use of findings from a working relationship cannot begin before the regulation of the issue of compensation and prejudiciality of the decision of the competent court. This removes the obstacle to use the patent before the fee is determined. Why is it important for an economic assessment? What's important is that only when a patent comes across a practical application, when it's found on the market, when the market is finished or the patent is offered to the business partner, then we can only know what the real value of that find is. Until then, we can't know what the real value is, and based on this real value, we can now establish a fair fee for the employee who created the invention. So far it could have been vice versa, it could have been determined that the finder's fee, the patent holder, and then when that finding was applied, when it came to the market, its economic benefit could be greater than or could be less than initially estimated. This way the law corrects this flaw. On the other hand, the employer is investing in the process of making, i.e. creating a find created from a working relationship in its resources. I said he could invest material, human resources, he could invest in his technology, he could invest by paying for the inventor's training, and that's why it's important to protect the employer's interest. It is logical that everyone in today's investment expects a concrete economic gain from all this. That is why it is now specified which finds include those arising from a working relationship. So these are the findings that arise by fulfilling the employee’s employment obligation, which are defined by his job description. Also, finding out from a working relationship will be considered to be the one created as a result of professional training, paid by the employer and again in this way I believe that the compensation is justly determined and it stands justly on the part of the employer for paying professional training. So I listed certain criteria and circumstances prescribed by the law, which require objectively and justly to determine the fees. These amendments and additions of laws are consistent with modern economic flows. The current law provided for it, i.e. it is still foreseen that the employer must inform the employee within two months whether its innovation is in the category of those finds arising from the employment relationship. The new bill implies that the deadline should be moved from two months to six months. Why did I say it was consistent with modern economic flows? Because I consider the interests of international companies. In this way we give them the extra time they need to assess and make a quality decision, because they need to take into account the situation at international level and therefore have more factors to consider when they make concrete decisions. Legal regulation of this area is important for every country and for us from the Social Democratic Party of Serbia, it is important to support this because we believe that in this way our government, our state, supports creativity and supports those activities that are based on this creativity, by giving a more secure legal framework for those who deal with inventions. In this way, it also affects the development of science and technology, which also affects better living standards, or better living conditions. It is also important that inventions have practical applications and we advocate that they be applied on the domestic market. It is important that when there is one invention, we work to ensure that the concrete benefits of it are felt by Serbian citizens. That's why we should always encourage this area and promote inventors, because they're one of the best segments of our society. They need to get more space in the media, to be presented in a positive way. One such example is students from Belgrade's Faculty of Electrical Engineering, who just over a month ago in the United States won their innovation in the international student competition. They designed an electric bicycle, and I have to mention, which won by design, dynamics and driving and preceded it in relation to the findings of the other teams. It is precisely in these inventions that the vast economic potential of our country lies. However, holders of these findings must be sufficiently recognized in public, so that we always positively affirm them. In practice, it also happens that foreign companies buy licenses from our inventors not only from ours, but from anywhere in the world it happens, simply buy the license and apply that find on their market. We from the SDPS are in favour, I will repeat, that the benefits of finding application in Serbia are being seen. That is why we support the amendments and additions to the laws and all the efforts of our government to promote innovative and creative people and to contribute to the development of our economy. At a time when ideas and data exchanges are taking place very rapidly, it is important that we respond in time and coordinate our regulations in order to arrange an area relating to copyright protection. Amendments and additions to the Copyright and Related Rights Act bring our legal legislation into line with European Union standards. The objective of regulating intellectual property rights should be to create ambience, as well as in the previous case, in which authors protect their rights and make adequate monetary compensation. I also believe that the adoption of amendments and additions to this law will improve the collective exercise of copyright and related rights. Copyright can and must be seen from two aspects, the first is the economic, i.e. the property aspect, as we call it, and the second is the moral aspect. Economic rights allow the author to protect his work, issue approval or prohibit the use of his work. These rights can be transferable and licensed. It is therefore important that we give more legal certainty to copyright holders by amending and supplementing the law, so that when they want to, they can also make up for it. In addition to economic and property rights, moral rights should not be forgotten and they include the right to appoint authors and the right to protect their work against harmful use. These rights are personal and are not portable. Unfortunately, we live in a time when copyright violations, due to the speed of the Internet, often happen in this area. I therefore expect this law to better regulate the area concerning online piracy, or piracy on the Internet in the future, and to edit and create a better legal framework to curb this phenomenon. Therefore, we insist that copyright be unequivocally protected by law and without the consent of the copyright holder, no one should use their work, whether it is a photo, text, video or audio recording, and anyone who wishes to take over certain content must have the consent of the rightholder. Otherwise, he should be aware of the risks, the consequences of unauthorized use. I was already at the beginning, and I said when I talked about amendments to the Copyright Act that it is in line with the IPR Directive, the European Directive, and that it is a guarantee that the holders of copyright and related rights will be more effectively protected from the court in the future. Finally, I will indicate that our creative industries annually generate about 7% of gross domestic products and in this area, more than 110,000 people were employed in a direct and indirect manner. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia will propose amendments and additions to this law because we believe it is the most important law in the field of intellectual property and the basis for further development of creative industries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-10-0.u60319	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. The word is authorised by the representative of the SPS parliamentary group Prof. Dr. Snezana Bošković Bogosavljevic. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-10-0.u60320	Dear Vice-President, Mr Ministers with Associates, Honorable People's MPs, the topic of today's parliamentary debate of this assembly's session is extremely important laws in the field of intellectual property rights, and this is the proposals for laws relating to amendments and additions to applicable laws, concerning patents, copyright and related rights and topography of semi-conductive products. Intellectual property is a civilizational fluid, created as a result of the knowledge that creative people, inventors, writers, composers, painters, designers must have special rights to their original and creative works, in terms of protecting the conditions of their use in broad practice, as well as adequate rewards for this. Intellectual property is an extremely important topic for the development of every society and its economic progress, as it promotes human creation, moving the borders of science and technology and enriching the world of literature and art. Today, it seems more than ever intellectual property for many nations, is actually the key to their world-wide domination. Aware of this, the world's most developed countries are increasingly investing in intellectual resources, bringing the struggle for global prestige into the field of scientific technological development. Who in that domain has the chance to secure a better economic, political and military position for themselves. In such a situation and developing countries may seek a chance to repair their own positions, as their intellectual resources are still stronger than their financial ones. It is also known that large companies have always invested a lot of their resources in research and development. These investments allowed them to create new products, develop and become leading firms in the area in which they operate. For example, thanks to patented innovations by its founders, the Japanese company, such as "Tojota", "Micubishia", "Honde", "Sonia", have become industrial giants and pillars of the Japanese economy. A similar situation was with Korean companies, some of which became global market leaders and led to the transformation of Korea, from a poor agricultural country in the 1960s, with income per capita below $100, to today's highly industrialised country with income per capita of more than $12,000. A good example is Doaen's development of information communication technologies, ABM, which years ago, and we could say for decades invests over five billion dollars on an annual level in research, development and engineering. Today, this company owns over 40,000 patents worldwide. It is also an interesting analysis of the European Institute for Patents, published last year, and concerns data on the importance and results of intellectual property rights-based industries, etc. to creative industries in the overall economic impact at EU member states level. According to these data, industry based on intellectual property rights, patents, stamps, copyright and related rights, industrial design and the like, participate with around 42% of EU GDP. The products of this industry are the backbone of EU trade, as even 86% of such products are imported and 93% is exports. Almost a third of all EU employees have been employed in this sector, and they earn more wages on average by around 46%. Also interesting is the fact that, for example, last year, Simens reported to the European patent office the largest number of patents for 2018, a total of 2,493, which put the former leader "Huaveja" in first place, and the third place by the number of patents reported in that year was the company "Samsung". More than 25% of the "Simens" patents reported in the area of industry. The area of artificial intelligence, digitalization and cyber-security follows. When it comes to Serbia, protection of intellectual property has a long tradition in Serbia. From the registered first patent to today, our Institute of Intellectual Property has published and protected over 56,000 patents, whether in Serbia or in our former state communities. By the way, it is interesting that our first registered patent was a "casual for roasting brandy", recognised in 1909 by Milan Jovanovic from Novi Sad. In fact, it was registered in Austro-Hungarian and filed under regular number 48.722, and after the establishment of the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians and then the Office for the Protection of Intellectual Property was seduced under regular number 1. However, although we have a long tradition and culture of intellectual property protection, the industry based on intellectual property rights is still insufficiently represented. The overall participation of all creative industries in the creation of GDP of the Republic of Serbia is slightly less than 5%, and only 4% participate in the overall representation of the creative industry. That this percentage is small and that we cannot be satisfied with it, unequivocally speaking data from highly developed countries that have a highly developed intellectual-based industry, such as in America 38% or in EU countries, about 42%. In addition, our reality is that companies operating in our country are still underusing mechanisms to protect intellectual property rights in order to achieve better business results. Despite all indicators that clearly state that patent rights, as well as other intellectual property rights, provide their carriers with a monopoly on exploiting their inventions and innovations, paves the way for accelerated own development and for the sure return of investments invested in their creation. Starting from the above, considering that today's degree of civilization development has reached a level that means that there is no developed economy and developed economy without developed intellectual property. It is clear that both for our country and how important commitment is to create a positive environment for strengthening and expanding creative industries, industries based on intellectual property rights, patents, stamps, copyright and related rights, industrial design, topography of semi-conductive products. This is because only in this way can Serbia step forward with the world and can expect good economic results and the development of society as well as better standards and improve the quality of life of all our citizens. In creating a positive environment for strengthening and expanding the creative industries, a special place is taking up legislation that prescribes a legal framework for strict respect for intellectual property rights with a determined and consistent fight against counterfeiting and piracy. This is extremely important because intellectual property is a very dynamic area, rapidly changing, among other things, because of the rapid development of digital technologies and new forms of copyright exploitation. Therefore, good legal solutions to countries with a highly developed industry based on intellectual property such as laws, EU directives in this area are a good guide for our legislation that we want to harmonise and implement. In addition, this is our obligation in the process of European integration because even one negotiating chapter refers precisely to the protection of intellectual property rights. In this regard, I believe that the proposed amendments and amendments to the patent laws are important and necessary, above all because they refer to one area that has not been properly regulated so far, and as far as patents created in the employment relationship are concerned. In fact, patents were created as a result of the synergy of the material and technical investment of employers and the intellectual work of the employee who created the invention. In such situations, predictable, clear, precise and secure legal solutions are needed, which will be acceptable and stimulating both for employers and employees, i.e. a clear legal framework that will guarantee one and the other a high degree of protection of rights and interests. It is clear that the aim of the legislator is a positive legal framework for a significantly greater number of working relations patents than it has ever been. It is also understandable, especially when it comes to the fact that our Institute of Intellectual Property, on an annual basis, has received only about 200 patent applications for years, with the largest number of applications coming from the scientific and research sector, from the university and from the institute, and very little from companies. If we now recall that last year only "Simens" reported to the European patent office about 2,500 patents, it is clear that we have been given a serious task to encourage business operators operating in our country to invest significantly more in research and development in the future and use significantly more patent protection mechanisms to find the work relationship. In this way it will increase the value of its businesses, either through profit increases, through savings achieved, and will certainly contribute to better economic results and the development of our society in general. When it comes to copyright and related rights, the aim of the proposed amendments and additions to the applicable law is a more effective system of legal protection of copyright and related rights in order to primarily protect the economic interests of the authors, interpreters, phonogram manufacturers, organisations for collectively achieving copyright and related rights, as well as other natural and legal persons who are holders of this right. The special newspaper of the law is that in the future, except for the interpreters of music, and actors whose interpretations are recorded on the speaker of sound and images will receive a fee for broadcasting and re-emission, thus correcting the present, we could also say injustice to the acting industry and contribute to improving their economic position. It is also worth the attention and commendation of the proposal to extend the duration of the property rights of the interpreter and phonogram manufacturer, CD, DVD, board and the like, from 50 to 70 years, which practically means a longer period for them to exercise profit rights and economic security at an older age. It is good that this law is in line with the European Directive on the implementation of intellectual property rights, because it says that the highest international standards are respected in the protection of the rights of authors and holders of copyright and related rights. Moreover, the adoption of this law, the interests of authors of copyright holders and related rights before our courts, will be better protected than ever before. So I believe that a special contribution to the application of this law will be an effective fight against piracy. In fact, this law also announces war piracy in music films, literature, on the Internet and on street gigs, for reasons of high penalties, and will not be worth a bit of counterfeiting and piracy. On the contrary, it will be strictly sanctioned and punished. In the era of rapid development of the IT sector and digital technologies, I think it is a good thing that this law prescribes a procedure for more effective implementation of the rights and authors of databases and computer programs. It is also very important that procedures are prescribed that will be significantly regulated and improved by collectively achieving copyright and related rights organisations. The new solutions will increase the transparency and efficiency of their work, which is important and is in the interest of all members of these organisations. In addition, I am convinced that better and better quality supervision by the Institute of Intellectual Property will further contribute to an even better and more efficient protection of the rights of the holder of this type of copyright, i.e. this type of intellectual property. When it comes to topography of semi-conductive products, amendments and additions to this law, it is done to align it with the standards in this area prescribed by the EU, but also to the Law governing free access to information of public importance and the Law governing the protection of personal data. Topography of semi-conductive products is most applied in the field of information technologies, an area that is otherwise recognised by our country as a strategic segment for the development of the economy and the development of our society in general. In this respect, new legal solutions are important for economic operators involved in the production of semi-conductive products, modelling of electric cars, designing and making finished printed plates and the like, but also for all other holders of this type of protection, natural and legal persons who are holders of this type of protection of intellectual property. New legal solutions deal with important issues, such as the regulation of the scope of topography in which topography can be subject to protection. Then, prescribing the obligation to keep a topography register by the competent authority, prescribing content requirements for the recognition of topography, prescribing the contents of a recognised topography document. All this is extremely important, because by gaining and achieving the right to protect this type of intellectual property, a smooth development of the topography of semi-conductive products is encouraged, and this has a direct impact on scientific, technological and overall economic development. Given that this law also carried out the harmonisation of national legislation with international standards in this area, I am convinced that the adoption of this law will also make a significant contribution to the greater interest of legal and natural persons from abroad to achieve more legal protection of intellectual property and invest more in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Finally, I would also like to say that the proposed laws in the field of intellectual property are only one of the measures of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to create a positive environment for strengthening and expanding the creative industries in our country. The important measure already introduced by the government at the beginning of this year is tax relief when it comes to taxation of intellectual property. This, in practice, means that those who invest in knowledge, in education, in research, in development, who create intellectual property in Serbia, which is also registered with us, have an IPR income tax of only 3%, instead of 15%, what is the overall tax rate. The direct result of this measure is that we already have more interest in foreign companies today to open patent bureaus, to invest in research and development in their companies operating in Serbia, and to register their copyrights and intellectual property in our country. Starting with all of this, and especially with the importance of protecting intellectual property rights for the rapid development of creative industries in the Republic of Serbia, which would significantly contribute to improving standards and improving the quality of life of all our citizens, the SPS parliamentary group will support the proposals of all three laws in the field of intellectual property rights in the day to vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-10-0.u60321	Thank you, colleague Bošković Bogosavljevic. Before we move on to the order of MPs to apply for a word, I once again ask if anyone else wants a word from the president, or a representative of the parliamentary groups. Yeah. ) The word has an authorised representative of the SNS parliamentary group, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-10-0.u60322	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the SNS Group supports the proposed laws, as for the sake of the clear intention that, yes, it is true, it is one of the things they have noticed today in their today's presentations by authorised representatives of other parliamentary groups, because this represents a continuation of those united efforts, of state efforts, of achieving the most European standards, and it should not represent any sin in itself, on the contrary, and of that other part of an important truth that we do everything we do primarily with the desire to improve our own system, to strengthen Serbia and to provide more for our citizens. All the laws we are talking about today really provide one and the other objective to the extent that this relates to compliance with EU regulations. It is not once again necessary to discourage anyone, but rather, to make only a further convinced, additionally assured belief that the kind of good relationship that we already have with the people who belong to this European space, including the companies that come from that space, can continue with great success and all that we have already provided with great success for the people of Serbia, that we will continue to do even better. In particular, it means that those around 70% of the traffic that we are making with the world, and it comes today from the direction of that European space, we can keep it at that high level and strengthen it further, to strengthen it further, so if those around 28 to 30 billion euros of traffic we have at that level today, that we can raise it further tomorrow. How? By continuing to edit our system, by continuing to give good reasons to investors to come to Serbia. So not only when it comes to total imports, total exports, but only investment to deal with. We today, ladies and gentlemen, because these things are being dealt with in a serious, modern way, including through such laws, we can praise them with a record high level of investment in the Republic of Serbia and these investments come from all over the world, from Europe, but also from those countries that belong to Asian space, Euro-Asian, but still further east to go, from the People's Republic of China, to come a little closer to the Middle East. When it is collected, we talk about billions of euros every year in Serbia today. How does this concern the bill? The most talked about today's copyright law, and above all about what, and we need to mention that again because of the people who listen to this, makes further protection of the rights of creators in the Republic of Serbia. Thus, the minister in charge, a complete part of the creators, was in a certain way forgotten, or not as devoted to the attention of the protection of their rights as well as of others. It's thought, first of all, of actors. Now, through the adoption of these amendments and additions, we will further protect these people, or allow them to enjoy their rights. But, let's say, when we talk about investment and some macro plan, let's say, and actors. It is interesting to note that today, because they are seriously treating their needs, which is trying to communicate correctly with both the East and the West, Serbia can, for example, praise the fact that these days a large investment fair, which is being held right in the People's Republic of China, brings as reality the fact that Serbia is today seen and presented there as an important, attractive destination, precisely for the film industry and with that news, of course, anyone who followed that data could hear that Serbia today can be praised for having 213% higher exports to the People's Republic of China. Why? Because she has been serious about foreign investment and our needs and every possible opportunity to further advance business opportunities and strengthen our economy, so that she can create an additional space for co-operation, like the one we have with the People's Republic of China today, which we've never had in history, definitely not before Alexander Vukic and SNS. But again, to deal with other parts of the world, you will find only fantastic, extraordinary examples everywhere. About China when it comes to it, we today have investments such as Želizara in Smederevo, such as RTB Bor, but such as a bypass or such as a railway corridor, which leads from Belgrade to the north towards Central Europe. These are things that were absolutely unimaginable in Serbia before Alexander Vukic and SNS, and these are the results of a serious and responsible approach. When it comes to our relationship with our needs, the example is in the innovation sector, the bill we are talking about is about protecting those results of a work process that has resulted in certain patents. We are talking about a bill that adds to the rights, so it strengthens the position and the one that came to the patent, which has created such a result, but also the one who is its employer, who created the conditions for such a discovery to come. Directly, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, by adopting these laws, we motivate those people who have an interest in coming to the Republic of Serbia, to encourage production here, to invest in it, and to be in the sphere of those jobs that result in certain patents. When we talk about topography of semi-conductive products, and that's on our agenda, yeah, that's, say, directly related to information and communication technologies, for that sector. There are other things about this sector, but patents, in the widest possible context, can concern absolutely every kind of activity, every creation, and to encourage that kind of innovation in us. It is the uncontested interest of the Republic of Serbia. That's exactly what we do. What do we get by encouraging additional investment, additional investment in Serbia? Well, yeah, let's just say that we can boast, as we can today, that we were declared by a Financial Times, and that happened ten days ago, maybe ten days ago, as an absolute world leader at the level of investment compared to the GDP of the state. So to look at all the countries of the world, by this criterion to compare them, Serbia is today the most successful. And that's what one renowned Financial Times says. And, of course, to the fact that it is and that it is $5.8 billion foreign investment in 2018 and 2019, so far. That's what the Financial Times says. And those who, like, say, of these domestic self-proclaimed experts for everything and everything, Đilas, Jeremic, Obradovic, Zivkovic, say that this is not true, that the Financial Times is lying, they will have to, above all, explain it to the world public, who sees this information, read and draw the conclusion that this Serbia is a great place for our capital, we can go there and invest further. We are just coming to what our goal is, that these things and news like this about Serbia are a regular phenomenon, that they are today, that tomorrow they are equal and more. Why are these innovations important, and why are they related with due attention? Because they represent fantastic capital for growth in the future. Taking care of Serbia today, after we saved those miserys in which there was and the dangers of an ambience which was called state bankruptcy in 2012, 2013 and strengthened it to stand better, indeed drastically better than ever in that period, we are constantly turning to the future and we want to create those conditions that will make Serbia able to say tomorrow – we are, we are a world leader in such parameters, such as, say, some economic indicators, but we have managed to be even more successful than what we did yesterday. That these things are indisputable interest to everyone well-intentioned in Serbia is clear. What do these things bring to Serbia? Further development, further progress. Already today, thanks to this kind of behaviour and thanks to the fact that we have set Serbia's development so that it is based on exports, so that it is based on this type of investment, therefore, and on foreign investments, we can boast that Serbia today has a surplus in the budget. So, 48 billion dinars at this point today represents a fantastic space to do everything we need, and what we could never imagine, at a time when other people were taking care of this country, when the former regime, first of all, watched how to make its heavy pockets additionally rich in some national money, which was normally measured in millions of euros, from case to case, somewhere in dozens of millions, somewhere like those most reputable and popular ones, such as Dragan Gilas, hundreds of millions of euros. At that time, of course, no one cared about the people's interest, his needs. Today, since we are domestically related and we have this kind of plus in our national register, we can deal with our needs. For example, today's news, we can deal with needs such as an additional increase in the minimum labour price. News has been released today that after the next increase, the minimum labour price will be over 30,000 dinars. Now, compare that value, that amount to what we started with when, what, two or three years ago, we started to deal with raising the minimum labour price, with then 15 or 16 thousand dinars, here's where we are. That's about twice as good. Thirty thousand dinars, so see if it can be compared to what we started with and that today is better than what is at the time of these financial geniuses, and above all for its own pocket and for its tsar, Djilas, Jeremic, Obradovic, Tadic and similar, today better than the average salary in their time. Only they, I don't believe anyone else in Serbia, are remembered today, certainly none of those present in the hall, but this is the reality in Serbia today. In addition, to have space to reduce once again, we have already done so last year, but also this year to do again, to reduce the burden on earnings, to have employers made additional benefits for their employees, that we can today, ladies and gentlemen, talk as to the reality of increasing additional wages in Serbia in different sectors and in private, of course, which draws a significant part of our annual GDP, but also in public and in those areas where we need it most, in health care, example, but also in education, in all those areas that we believe now that when we have provided space we can further support them and pay them, remember, we have talked about not a small number of times in this room, at the level of that psychological limit of 500 euros in Serbia. So remember, once again, we make a parallel, of which we started to value when we began to deal with the promotion and personal income of each citizen of Serbia. It was during the past financial geniuses of the former regime, which alone provided hundreds of millions of euros to themselves, no one more, a order of 300 and 20 euros and some euros, so as to compare it with the projected and today realistic 500 euros expected. It is not a small result, and that is, of course, what it is to the citizens of Serbia as a promise given by Aleksandar Vukic at the moment when we started to reform and this promise, ladies and gentlemen, will be fulfilled and it can only be to the joy of every citizen of this country, and it can be a cause for dissatisfaction only for those for whom it represents a personal defeat because it shows all the troubles they showed to the citizens of Serbia, all the incompetence and the fact that they cannot compete with Alexander Vuk and SNS in good things. Again, of course, I mean those financial geniuses from the former regime. And they admit, there will be an average salary in Serbia of 500 euros because we have modernised Serbia, because we have seriously and domestically treated our needs, because we have attracted foreign investments, which we have opened factories, because we have hired hundreds of thousands of people who did not have a job, and sometimes they have just lost it in hundreds of thousands at the time of Dragan Djilas, Bosko Obradovic and similar to them. Now they all have to admit, they do it reluctantly but admit it. The average salary in Serbia will be 500 euros. You see as they admit it, this is the title of one of these Gilas tabloids, they say, imagine, "Vucic deliberately wants to raise salaries, so that the average salary in Serbia will reach 500 euros, so that it turns out that he has fulfilled his promise." Imagine that structure, the evil Vukic, about how evil he is, purposely wants to raise wages, to pay more, and yet all the trouble to make it look like he was right and that the promise was fulfilled. This kind of thing is, of course, the highlight of these and such people's economic thoughts, but this is an indicator of what someone is trying to compete with today's type of results, $5.8 billion of investment at the level of a year and a half in the Republic of Serbia, 500 euros in average salary and an increase in pensions plus all the increases we've had and the fact that today's pensions to all pensioners are bigger than when we started to implement reforms in our financial system. So, with all these things that are absolutely reality today, you have to compete with something. These people have shown that they're only able to compete with the kind of nonsense that doesn't seem convincing to them anymore. I am convinced that whoever wrote something like this and who took this to read, and maybe he supported one of those people there, can't have any serious opinions about them after reading these words. But they are less important, but they concern, let's say, these topics that we have touched today, and it is right that Mr. Risticevic when it comes to copyright, their deeply illegal businesses that are concerned with the direct play of the law, the twisting of the law, the turning of something that should represent a modern-day system, that we are acting crazy so that we try to do media, manipulatively in the Republic of Serbia, that we are getting rich, that we build up here in our own pockets, and that's how much of a terrible dictatorship, not to breathe to us, not to write to us, and they all do it as much as they want under God, but other copyrights. Here, today they spoke here authorized representatives of other parliamentary groups on copyright in general. I think it seems that one of the most important issues concerning copyright in Serbia today is the question of who has copyright over that brilliant plan to make some pre-election government that no one has received votes for, which no one has voted for, but to take now, and imagine on the side, a foreigner, this is what Bosko Obradovic wrote to the European Parliament, and then to order that he personally ask them, that stranger some, that they are all ministers. I don't know what Minister Obradovic, what Gilas, is going to be, how they imagined it. Jeremic will certainly be dealing with something that has to do with the money, like these other two, but that's a little bit. So, it's not enough, but besides people wanting to be ministers without votes and no choices, they want to be directors in public enterprises, and they asked for it yesterday, then they want to boss around the place, they want to be part of local authorities everywhere, and that's what they imagined. Now you see the gnaw among yourselves, because you can't decide whose authorial work it is, this fantastic idea, so Bosko Obradović says – that's what I first came up with, says Cedomir Jovanovic – I gave the bill, says Bosko Obradović – you prescribed from me, and those of the Free Citizens Movement say – you're wrong neither, nor the other, we first remembered it, even in 2017, that's Sasa Jankovic on our behalf first proposed. As they gnaw around these copyrights, the people of Serbia shrug their shoulders like this, spread their hands and say – if this is some kind of political offer, if they are to compete with Aleksandra Vukic, SNS, these 500-euro averages, pension increases each year, raise the minimum labour price, if they are to compete with hundreds of thousands of jobs that these people have opened... Among other things, we're talking about modern technologies, MTU mentioned yesterday, "Rolls-Royce" in the airline industry, and it came to Serbia today, thanks to this kind of responsible relationship, and to compete with someone by saying, "Give me power, without a choice, and I'll show you what I can do, and of course I'll watch, first of all, to throw some 619m euros in my pockets through my companies and their accounts, as Gilas has already done, citizens just shrug their shoulders and say – well. You go your own way, just don't threaten anyone physically, don't attack people, don't beat anyone up on the street, like you keep threatening, you do your own business, and we know how we're going to do it. When you ask them what it's like, they say, as they said two days ago in Medvedja -- there's going to be 67, 70% of us, there's going to be a better one before, there's going to be 10, 15% more than in previous elections, and when we go to elections 65% says -- at least for Alexander Vukic, SNS, this modernisation of Serbia and this kind of result that we make to the satisfaction of all citizens of this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-10-0.u60323	Thank you, Mr. Orlic. Since there are no more registered presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, we are moving to the order of the MPs according to the application for a word in the joint principled search on the proposals for the law in point. 3, 4th and 5th agenda. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-10-0.u60324	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we have before us very important laws. So copyright, or intellectual property, and certainly patents represent a very important dimension of science in us and in the world. Man as God's being is honored with many blessings, but the possibility of creating authentic thought and word is actually exclusive to a man who may have competition in nature for other abilities, creations, but in this man is absolutely an exception and therefore every society that wants to make progress of his community will attach great importance to this and protect man, especially those people who want to make a meaningful contribution to their community. Therefore, the legal arrangement of this space is of paramount importance, so that we can re-incentive the creativity of authentic thoughts, or thought creativity in our community. It is known that our space here in our country, but especially the Balkan area, has been donated by a large number of talents that have the ability to create authentic thoughts, creations in knowledge and science. Also, certain times of destruction have affected, unfortunately, that these abilities often cannot be expressed, so that our young people as we see most often find the possibility outside of this country, especially in the West, that they actually glow in their creative, mind-searching abilities in various fields of science, in the field of various innovations. I therefore find it very important through these laws, but also the general recruitment of power at all the relevant levels, above all in the competent Ministry of Science and Education, which is to a certain extent, but it is necessary to continue this time in order to get a final environment in which young and talented people could first come to terms and present their real talents in the creation of innovations and be rewarded for it. So two are the key measures that need to be on that path. The first is what we do today, legally protect copyright, protect intellectual property, which would make the person who actually has this thought creation that offers society certain that it will not be misused, that it will not be stolen and will not in any way lose it. The second important moment on this trip is the affirmation of these talents and abilities through rewarding. So, in addition to being sure that their copyright, or intellectual property, will be protected, that they will also be rewarded to the extent to which the quality is rewarded, or valorised, to this extent, provide the necessary dynamics of development. So we live in places that are not endowed with oil or some other natural gas or some other energy, but our oil, our natural gas, our treasures are actually talents. These are the people who have God's gift, the above-average gift of creation of authentic thought, and therefore, if we want to tear this society apart from all other activities, above all in the field of economic development where we have certain shifts and certain progress, this is our treasure, that is, the secret of serious development that lies in us if God is to come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-10-0.u60325	I thank my colleague Zukorlic. The People's Messenger Miladin Shevarlic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-10-0.u60326	Thank you. I hope that these proposed copyright laws and patents with alterations and supplements will be protected and authors in the area of the agrobusiness sector, especially those of which the companies have ceased to exist, such as the Office for Foreign Cereals in Kragujevac, Institute for Technological Research in Zajecar, Institute for Potatoes in Guca, etc. I would take the opportunity to read an e-mail that I received after yesterday's presentation in this assembly, which is very worrying. "Respected, I would like to inform you that the company "Kresaja" d.o.o. with Belgrade-based headquarters to start work on the construction of the "Kresaja" mini hydro-water plant on September 2, 2019, under a building permit issued after the solution of the Ministry of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure. In order to build the mini hydro "Kresaja" without interference, we hired the company "Bomar Team" from Zemun, Železnička No. 17, which is with 80 to 100 people in an unlimited time-limit to provide construction works and minimum hydropower. With respect, signed by Ivan Lukić Director and Dusan Pantović Deputy Director. “ I question whether these are private armies and why state authorities, police cannot regulate these obligations and protect the interests of investors or protect citizens who are rebelling against eco-genic intentions and procedures and defending their water rights, the right to irrigate for agriculture and the right to protect the environment in their villages and in their rural areas? I find this e-mail very interesting. Why, for example. The state of Serbia would not hire the same firm to bring down an illegal facility at the top of Kopalnik when the militia could not react and to support the ministry to realise this collapse? I would also ask representatives of the congregation's majority to put on the agenda as soon as possible legal regulations relating to the retirement of farmers. I know it's a very difficult issue, because it's about a billion-euro dubiosis and it can disrupt budgetary balance, but it's also that Serbian citizens are farmers and especially their successors, after the death of the leftover, in a major problem because of unrealistic, extremely high interest rates for which this country has no understanding that they start to solve themselves once. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-10-0.u60327	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Milimir Vujadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-10-0.u60328	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, that Serbia is not experiencing serious economic growth today would be completely unnecessary to talk about these laws, as far as patents and copyright protection are concerned. As can be seen, the patent law is closely related to the economic development of Serbia, regulating the relationship between the employer and the employee when it comes to the creation of a new innovative product and created at the time of employment. The law only applies if that employee and his employer do not regulate their relationship by any other act, i.e. the contract or some general legal act of the employer. So, on the one hand, it encourages employers to invest in research in development, and on the other hand it protects the right of each employee and gives him an additional incentive to work through their creative work and through this innovative character contributes and develops their own personality and development of the organization in which it works, and if you want to eventually and develop the whole society, because the development and success of each individual is the success of each of us who live with it. It is full of our history of these and such personalities on which we build our national identity, let us remember Tesla, Pupina and Milanković and many others. However, it is difficult at all to talk about the progress and development of someone who is fighting for a naked existence, for example an ordinary man and an individual. What do I mean? It's hard to talk in Serbia, it's hard to talk in Serbia about these and these legal solutions, about progress and innovation, when Serbia fought for naked survival and for naked existence. Namely, what are you going to say about the protection of patents and copyrights and the arrangement of the relationship between the employee and the employer at a time when Serbia almost has no employees, i.e. it has a huge number of unemployed? What will you say about development and patents when Serbia almost has no industry? What to say about when Serbia didn't have or had a completely destroyed infrastructure, a destroyed army and that dedicated industry where, you will admit the truth to the will, this area is also how applicable and how important it is when it comes to the dedicated industry? So, what are you going to say about that in Serbia when the state of bankruptcy shared several weeks. The only innovation and invention from that time, which is somewhere related to that period by 2012 and 2014, and if you want to end up in 2016, until that and some kind of government managed northern Serbia, the only invention from that time was some innovative means of pumping people's money out of the register, and the only inventors from that time were the leaders of the opposition's work today - Đilas, Tadic, Jeremic, Zivkovic and many of their companions who are with them. And today they're inventors. They invented, dear ministers, to be with you in government, to be ministers and members of the government without excuse. To be members of the government without anyone voting for them or that someone must force themselves to vote for them. They also invented political violence when seen in Serbia. They also invented a boycott of choice. But you saw only two or three days ago how that invention went to Bear. Without that invention, a few years ago, the bear's turnout in the election was 54%. With that invention, the turnout was 67%. That's a good invention for them. To tell you the truth, we may be looking forward to it somewhere. If the people are going to react like that, then that's good. It's obvious that the people love some other political inventions than all these so far said. The people love a political invention that ultimately has single-digit inflation. A political invention that has an economic growth of 4% compared to the decline from their period. A political invention that results in inflation somewhere at 2%. A political invention that has hundreds of kilometers of highways, an invention that has a strong army and its dedicated industry and an invention that gives huge aid to our countrymen in the region. The inventors of this final piece of political invention are certainly and unequivocally Alexander Vukic. The people obviously know how to compare what is the political invention of Alexander Vukic and the SNS and the political invention of those I spoke of at first. The people know very well how to evaluate these and those inventions, and that's probably the best estimate. And the people, I'm sure, will support this and such political inventions in the future. And we, dear Ministers, will certainly, as SNS MPs, give support to these laws that we are discussing today, as well as to those we spoke about yesterday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-10-0.u60329	Thank you, colleague Vujadinović. The word has been made by MP Ivan Bauer. Here you go, Comrade Bauer.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-10-0.u60330	Thank you, Your Honor. Honorable ministers with associates, esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the Social Democratic Party of Serbia parliamentary group will support all laws on the agenda of this session. I'd like to talk a little bit about the law we seem to be talking about today. It is about amendments to the Law on the Protection of Topography of Semiconductive Products. Semi-conductive technology and integrated car technologies are, I would say, essential to the development of a country and, I believe, I can safely say, probably one of the most important reasons why today's most developed countries of the world are so far away from developing countries when it comes to overall technological development and economic prosperity. I'd say that today you can't imagine almost any electronic device that hasn't applied one of these two technologies, and if there's a device that doesn't contain any integrated circuits or any part that's based on semiconductors today, then you'll certainly have it as much as tomorrow. What is the problem is that the development of these topography, i.e. topography of semi-conductive products or topography of integrated cars requires large financial investments which would not be possible to recover if their unauthorized use, i.e. their unauthorized use or placing into commercial use, would occur. Therefore, under the right of industrial property, which is a subset of intellectual property rights, one specific area is recognised, I would say, which is the area of protection of topography of semi-conductive products, i.e. topography of integrated circuits, and is then regulated by a series of multilateral and bilateral international agreements and, of course, through the national legislation of the largest number of countries. Not exactly what to expect, though. Serbia is one of the pioneers in protecting intellectual property in the world. Namely, the Kingdom of Serbia was one of 11 signatories of the so-called The Paris Convention on the Protection of Industrial Property of 1883, or one of the founders of the so-called The Paris Union. Of course, the question, that is, the matter of protecting topography of semi-conductive products of integrated cars, chips, whatever you want, is something that is far below the protection of intellectual property and this matter has only begun to be arranged some centuries later, when, of course, others than those countries that are most interested in this matter, the United States, brought so-called. Chip protection act 1984. Serbia can also boast that it was one of only eight countries that signed the so-called. an intellectual property contract with regard to an integrated car, which was signed in 1989 in Washington under the World Intellectual Property Organisation, however, then Serbia was part of the SFRY, but we were also one of the pioneers, one of the countries that recognized how important this matter was. Unfortunately, this contract never came to life because it was not ratified by a sufficient number of Member States who apparently had no hearing about this matter. The first law to regulate the issue of protecting topography of integrated cars was passed in 1988 in the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, then in 2004 in Serbia-Montenegro, and the current solution was from 2013. In our process of international integration, that is, the approximation of the World Trade Organisation and the European Union, we have set out to bring our legislation into faster harmonisation with the relevant European Union directives and, of course, agreements that exist within the World Trade Organisation. In this respect, the issue of protection of topography of semi-conductive products has been regulated through the harmonisation of our legislation with Directive 87/54 of 1986, the European Union Directive, and so on. TRIPS with the 1994 World Trade Organisation Agreement. In this context, the proposed amendments and additions to the laws are in fact trying to further harmonize our legislation with this said directive, i.e. with the framework it sets out, because it gives us space to respect all specificities of a specific country and, of course, with this TRIPS agreement, but we are trying to improve this legal solution and to remove some shortcomings that have been observed through its application in practice. The canonisation of our legislation, when it comes to protecting topography of semi-conductive products with the world's most developed countries, which are leaders, I would say, in the world when it comes to designing, testing, making and commercial use of integrated cars or semi-conductive products, as you will, should bring many benefits to Serbia. In the first place, of course, the most important benefit is the creation of preconditions for encouraging our innovators, i.e. the development of domestic topography of semi-conductive products, i.e. the development of innovative entrepreneurship in Serbia. Also, it is very important that conditions are created for the transfer of foreign state-of-the-art technologies, and in some perspective, of course, their future development on Serbia's soil. Also, I would say that it is very important, no less important than this previous one, that we encourage our young scientific researchers to develop topographies of semi-conductive products without fear that someone will use them unauthorizedly. Given the unique character of this matter in terms of the speed of technology development and the degree of innovation, I am quite sure that with the new changes and additions of this law we will meet very quickly, not because the law is not good, but because this matter is extremely dynamic and fluid and I am quite sure that practice will show that we will have to change it again very quickly. In that sense, I would like to point out a potential lack of this law, and it is about the scope of its, or the area that regulates this law, that is to change the definitions of a former integrated car, i.e. the topography of integrated cars into today's topography of semi-conductive products. Here's the thing. Of course, as usual, when these changes are made they always have good and bad sides. The good side of the change from integrated cars to semiconductive products is that now this law extends its scope, so other than integrated cars, we include so-called. discreet components based on semi-conductive technology. What is the problem is that an integrated car that is not based on semiconductors, which was recognized in that previous solution, or what was previously called this law, is not recognized through this law today. I'm not saying that through some other law, he can't recognize them. What exactly am I talking about? I'm talking about an integrated nanotechnology car that is not something we can apply in Serbia at the moment, but that doesn't mean we shouldn't have it in law, because it's never known if some foreign investor is going to want to invest in this area in Serbia. It's about what happened. integrated car based on menses, i.e. micro-electrical sensors. It's also about the so-called. A sensory car that's integrated by a sensory car that's not based on semiconductive technology, which I have to tell you is working with us. So, the people who design sensory circuits with us that aren't based on semi-conductive technology, they just don't recognize through this law. So I think this is something we could think about in some future, just to just include integrated cars and semi-conductor products like two areas that are identical at first glance, but essentially not, there are big overlaps between these two sets, but these two sets are not identical. I repeat, once again, the SDPS parliamentary group is of course supporting all the laws that are on the agenda of today's sessions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-10-0.u60331	Thank you, colleague Bauer. The word has a folk MP, Jahja Fehratovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-10-0.u60332	Thank you, Your Honor. The People's MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party will support the proposed legislative solutions, and of course, you could already hear a lot of arguments as to why it is important for us to establish the good foundations of those values concerning the protection of intellectual property, copyright and patents. I have spoken to students many times, especially the students of the department's IT department, the information sciences of the international university, who are particularly interested as young IT experts to arrange this area so that they can have equal participation in this very big global game in this field of IT technology, that their innovations, their projects can compete on the world market, and that they have the opportunity to do all of this from their own city, from their own country, and that they have a simple, equal, equal with all the young IT experts in the world. It is very important that this section regarding information technologies, especially the Internet, programming, and so on, be further regulated by this legal solution, and that is in line with most of the laws that exist in this area in the EU and the whole world. This will in many ways help to introduce a basic order of operations in this very chaotic space so that it can provide an opportunity for all those who want, who have knowledge, who have capacities, ideas, and the strength to participate in this kind of activity. It is also a very good decision to recognise copyright from the current 50 to 70-year limit, from the moment of publication. This will help many artists, intellectuals, writers, painters, to improve and protect their individual integrity at the same time as they need additional incomes as they do for their lives, intellectual work, and thus their existence will be improved and will protect their individual integrity and thus help this society to ensure that those most responsible for development, scientific development, intellectual, technological development, live with dignity in the late years of their lives. Of course, and everything else proposed by these legal solutions, which affects the regulation of relations when it comes to copyright and how important it is, since we have had the opportunity in the previous decades to see what the destruction of all possible legal criteria means, especially after the collapse of the common state and how this has led to a complete chaotic situation in all areas, especially when it comes to the protection of individual copyrights, in some cases and collective ones, especially when it comes to patents and when it comes to something that is of general benefit to an entire society, or to an entire community. Therefore, we MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party say that these are very important steps towards protecting that work which is more decade-long, which is rarely seen and which should really be rewarded for this nausea, because of the investment, the overall life experience and the encroachment of intellectuals, artists, experts from different areas, that what they have invested and that society in some way gives them satisfaction at least in this regard of dignity. That it is likely that many fewer will have the challenge of leaving this country or offering their acquired knowledge and experience to other countries that are willing to pay financially and in any other way. We are on the path of correcting all those injustices that have accumulated for three decades in this area and of course we will in any case seek to give priority to constructive proposals and future legal solutions that are in the interest of a common man, in the interest of an individual and in the interest of one who works for the general benefit of the entire society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-10-0.u60333	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Olivera Pesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-10-0.u60334	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will talk about the bill on amendments and amendments to the patent law. These changes are one effective way to regulate the relationship between the employer and the employee when the finding arises in a working relationship. What is important to stress is that they change and complement only those findings that arise in business entities and which are not directly linked to funding by the state, given that the Law on Innovative Activity and the Law on Scientific Research Work has already been defined in how the inventor created in scientific and research work, at universities and universities is protected. The existing law, by looking at the corner of investors, has a kind of destimulating character because investors want to ensure a higher level of legal certainty when it comes to protecting their intellectual property, which is understandable. Thus, these types of changes and additions constitute a kind of compromise, i.e. a fair relationship which does not distort the interests of the employer, i.e. the investor, but does not distort the interests of the employee or inventor, because the law will protect the interests of the inventor in such a way that it will clearly define that the exploitation of the invention must take place with the consent of the employee or, in this case, the inventor. On the other hand, when assessing the remuneration for an employee, i.e. the inventor, should be taken into account and the contribution that the investor or employer has made to the creation of this find, because he has made available to the employee, i.e. the finder, financial, human and other resources on the basis of which the end product was found. It has been defined that if a work relationship was found, the employer has the right to protect the find, and the employee who created the invention has the right to be listed as the inventor and to be adequately rewarded accordingly. The compensation is agreed by the employer, and the employees, and if they can't do it in agreement, then the compensation is defined under this law. Apparently, the changes and additions we are talking about today are small, in terms of the number of members who are changing, but they are also important and will provide security for investors who want to invest in Serbia, who have not invested so far, because simply, they wanted to risk protecting intellectual property. So what is most important is that these changes and additions will attract an even greater number of investors in Serbia. When we talk about investment, it is important that Serbian citizens know that Serbia has attracted 12 times more foreign direct investment than did the economies of our size. Serbia has more direct foreign investment than the entire Western Balkans, and this has actually resulted in Serbia's unemployment rate being halved. Factorys are opening up throughout Serbia, factories are opening up in both southern Serbia and Jablanic County, where I come from. The South of Serbia is slowly but certainly reviving and the citizens of Serbia feel it on their skin, and that is precisely why Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic has the largest support for citizens in southern Serbia, and this has also been demonstrated in Sunday's elections in the Jablanic district, i.e. in the Medvedja municipality, where 65% of citizens supported the newspaper Aleksandar Vukic, because we love Medvedja. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-10-0.u60335	Thank you, colleague Pesic. The word has a National MP, Predrag Jelenkovic. Here you go, colleague Jelenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-10-0.u60336	Thank you, Vice President. Dear ministers with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues, counterpart Bour explained in detail the law, i.e. the proposal for a law on topography. I'd like a little something on the copyright and related rights extensions. In fact, the material we have obtained to prepare this session can, above all, be seen that the proposed amendments to the applicable law extend the protection of property rights from 50 to 70 years. This law introduces another important newspaper that will further improve the legal position of interpreters. The law provides for a phonogram manufacturer's obligation to pay an interpreter an additional annual fee for each full year which occurs after 50 years from the date of the legal issue of phonograms. Also, the law allows for an improved economic position, which is much more detailed in the discussion in principle. We from the Social Democratic Party of Serbia in our programme, advocate film creation in Serbia and co-operation with creators from countries in the region that enjoy broad support. Cinematography has a market and represents a special affirmation of domestic and cultural creation. The new draft law, which is before us, proposed actors, means, not only music interpreters, have the right to compensation if their interpretation is recorded, broadcast or cable re-transmitted, as it stands. This bill provides for increased transparency of the work of collective rights organisations, as well as their efficiency in the pursuit of the rights of authors and related rights holders. These solutions also support the creation of new operators on the market, bearing in mind that they form the basis for the work of new organisations to collectively exercise the rights of actors. As noted at the outset, the Social Democratic Party of Serbia, in its culture and media programme, advocates developing and strengthening the cultural industry. The role of the state is to connect entrepreneurs, artists and creative creators in publishing, film, music production and other forms of industry, culture. The cultural industry is Serbia's developmental chance because knowledge and ideas are the most important raw materials in our country. In Voting Day, the Social Democratic Party of Serbia will support the proposed changes and additions to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-10-0.u60337	Thank you, colleague Jelenkovic. The word has the People's Messenger Fatmir Hasani. He's not there. The word has a folk MP, Dragana Kostic. Here you go, colleague Kostic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-10-0.u60338	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers with associates, MPs and citizens of Serbia, first of all, I would say that the patent law is a material protection of inventions, and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the patent laws on the agenda today aims to protect the discovery created in a working relationship as well as the economic exploitation of inventions and further development of them. Since the current law has not met expectations in practice, since it is not in line with other regulations, the adoption of proposed amendments and the addition of the patent law, an increase in patent applications by companies is expected, as it will have greater legal certainty, although Serbia is a leader in the region at the amount of direct foreign investment, foreign investors want a higher level of real security when it comes to their intellectual property, as well as creating a better business environment. This is understandable, but precisely our president, Aleksandar Vukic, has announced a new investment cycle of five to ten billion euros. The bags and the number of finds triggers the competition point on the market both in the country and abroad, when they are the economic and social bearers of these patents. The proposed changes concern the way in which a work relationship is found. Employees can create a find by fulfilling their work obligations regulated by a labour contract or by a general act of the employer. The finding may occur within a year after the termination of the working contract provided that the finding was made in connection with the activities of the employer or the use and use of his material and technical means, information and other benefits provided by the employee. Amendments and additions shall regulate the contract between the employer and the worker on the level and manner of payment to the employee, if the contract fails, shall apply the criteria prescribed by the patent law. The exploitation of the invention must take place in agreement with the employee, protecting his economic interests. These changes extended the period within which the employer should inform the employee whether the finding belongs to the category of find from working relationship from two to six months. Work relations finds can be found in both national companies and international companies. In view of the differences in patent legislation in countries where it plans to launch protection, the employer submits a request as soon as possible in the official language of that country, but obliges the translation of the application into all the necessary languages. Also, these amendments and additions to the laws prescribed by the employer and employed to communicate with a third party their activities in accordance with a regulation governing the protection of business secrets. In the event that the applicant dies or ceases to exist, amendments to this law are prescribed where the competent authority interrupts the procedures for the recognition of the patent until successors enter into proceedings after the completion of the matrimonial hearing. Certainly today we would not be discussing this law if our President Aleksandar Vukic had not created a very stable both economic and political climate for our Serbia, and your Ministry of Education, Mr Sarcevic, carried out part of the reform on education and at all levels very professionally and domestically. Since 2014, the Serbian government has invested about 150m euros in reconstruction into 128 schools throughout Serbia through the Public Investment Office, and 25 more schools are currently under construction, while 50 schools are under public procurement. In this year, 20m euros are also invested to connect 500 schools to the fast and wireless internet. Commendation and implementation of the project of day-long teaching in 300 school facilities where the Soko Banja school is located, where I come from. I am grateful to you, Minister, on behalf of the citizens and school children Soko Banje and for the reconstruction of a 90 million dinar secondary school in the past year, as well as for the announced reconstruction of a small elementary school worth 85 million dinars this year. Otherwise, this school was built 70 years ago and was never completely renovated, and it belongs to the monument of culture. It is this fact that completes your statement yesterday that we are just now renovating schools from the time of SFRY. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-10-0.u60339	Thank you, colleague Kostic. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-10-0.u60340	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers with associates, fellow MPs, Serbian citizens, I am Milija Miletic and I come from Svrlig. It is the most beautiful municipality in Serbia located near the town of Nis, which is the most beautiful city in Serbia. Otherwise, I was elected to the Serbian Parliament on the SNS list - Aleksandar Vucic, and I represent the USS, whose president I am and whose head office is in Svrlig. Otherwise, I'm at the Socialist Movement, NSS, USS and so far, I'm going to say things about us in southeastern Serbia, and specifically about this law and this set of laws that are on the agenda today. As for intellectual property and everything we've been talking about, it's very important for all of us that we have a large number of our people who have done something, and then someone tried to take it and take advantage of it. These laws have the opportunity to stop it, to prevent it and, normally, to make it right, as it is in EU countries, where we want to go in and where we want to be. I will now mention a few things concerning this part of the southeast of Serbia, where I come from, where I live. For example, the bridge on the railway track, which was built in 1915-1916, was done by Milutin Milankovic, our man, a scientist, a man who did a lot of things that are recognizable in our Serbia, Yugoslavia, but it's very much about him. In particular, it's made of reinforced concrete, where from that moment on, a patent that is still being used today. The bridges now made on the river Timok in the part of our railway line, which is now being reconstructed, reconstructed and puts it into operation to be in the projected state, as it should be 20 years ago, only now is it done. The patent that Milutin Milankovic made was used and used now. I would invite people who want to see the beauty of the end of Southeastern Serbia to come to Srlig, to visit that beauty, to see these bridges, to see that blizzard that is truly beautiful, god-day for tourism and for all that is good with us. Svrljig, Svrljjske Mountains, the Old Mountains are recognizable by the fact that there are many indigenous plants, medicinal plants that only grow there, and when we talk about the turning end, it is always said now by the svrjjski lamb, svrjski cheese, svrljična kavalje, svrljjski bemuž. We all know that we have a big problem with demographics in southeastern Serbia, but also in Serbia, I can say because these specialities of our end give strength, give power, and it's a white man, that our products are consumed, because it's a perfect product, a shrewd whitemuse protected, protected geographical origin, a protected patent for making, but, on the other hand, it's our great-grandfathers, our great-grandparents who made it, and specialties, which are now finally and protected and done in such a way that all of our people who want to try this quality product can come to Srljliga, not because it's made by the perfect hosts and the housewife, but because of the slury sheep and the cows that feed the grass on the Srlje Mountains, on these pastures, we eat it's very much of our own milk, because of which makes our own milk, because of which is more important and our dairy products, because of our own milk, because of our own, because of our own, because of our own milk, because of the milk, because of our dairy, we have the dairy, we have the milk, we know the milk. One more thing for me as a man who comes from southeastern Serbia is very important, to say and to say that we all know that back in 50 years, more precisely on 3 May 1969, Milutin Veljkovic is a man who entered the cave then. That cave is called Samar. It is located in the part of the village of Kopikošar. That's where he came in, and he's been there for over 470 days. Otherwise, let's remember that time, I was born about that year, after the Cold War, where there was great impatience between countries we already know which and now where the Cold War was, there was also a nuclear weapon. There was a danger of being used, and therefore this gentleman, who now died, was there to see how he could survive, to live in a closed space, in a cave, unless, God forbid, there was a nuclear disaster. Like I said, there was a Cold War at the time. Now, after 50 years, all these records are used, all of what Milutin Veljkovic did. It's all used for progress. That's what our institutes use. This is what some other world organizations use, because it's a practice and it's seen on man himself, and it's all written and monitored, and behind that is the time of the state of Yugoslavia. All of this was done in the part of the municipality from which I came, and it is the municipality of Srljig, and I am sure that when we pass these laws, we will protect everything that is worth it, and we have a number of our people who are from my region, and there are even more people from Nis, Southeastern Serbia, because, as my colleague Zukorlic said earlier, our wealth is people, our wealth is a people, a Serbian people who are smart, who know and who has always been for moving forward. Once again, I call on fellow Members to vote for a set of these laws. I, as an MP for the United Peasant Party, will vote for a set of these laws and something that gives us to move forward, because we all want to move forward with our President Vukic, who, together with us, wants our Serbia to be a leader in the Balkans, as it is, to be stronger, to be better, but to be respected by everyone, as we respect everyone. Once again, I call on fellow Members to vote for a set of these laws. Dear Minister, I invite you to come to Svrlig, to be our guest, because these days we are working on a reconstruction of high school, which will be in the most beautiful edition of the basic school. We also work kindergartens from our resources, so it would be good if you came to Srlig, because our municipality of Srljig puts a great accent on youth, on education and on knowledge.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-10-0.u60341	Thank you, fellow Miletic. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-10-0.u60342	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have had the opportunity to hear all sorts of things in this united debate, to hear about everything and everything, and to say at least about what the agenda topic is, as if today was a free topic, so participants are mostly representatives of the ruling coalition who have been speaking so far trying to talk about the successes of their rule. Of course, there were mistakes. I'll talk, too. I'll take the opportunity, when they talked about it, to say the same thing. First of all, I would like to make a principled remark that is related not only to these laws that are on the agenda today, but also to other legal proposals that we have in the National Assembly. When you read these bill proposals and read the reasons for the law being passed, what is the basic reason for you to pass all the laws is, as a rule, to comply with the directives coming from the EU. You are still harmonising the laws with EU directives today, and in my opinion it is not good for a few reasons, first of all because you cannot understand that Serbia is not only an EU member, but it is quite certain that Serbia will not become an EU member. It is absolutely certain that we do not have to worry for the next 20, 30 years, so we are completely carefree, but the question is whether even after those 20 or 30 years we will become EU members. If we remember what the DOS regime promised, and you who are in power today are ideological not only clones, but also the heirs of their policy and the good part of the ruling parties were even in power with the DS, even though they are either reluctant to remember it today or not, then you promised Serbian citizens that in 2005 or 2006 you would bring Serbia into the EU. Instead, we got a robbery privatisation, we got a situation where there was a krill that every mob had its own state, and in Serbia alone, the mafia had its own state, and above all it meant that every state had a mafia. We are absolutely safe, and this is obviously from what representatives of the EU's most important countries say, that they will not come to further enlargement. You heard it directly from Emmanuel Macron, who says that until relations are defined between EU member states, there is no enlargement speech. Even Turkey accepted, after decades of EU candidate status, that the accession would never be anything, and unfortunately, the regimes in Serbia, here after a full 19-year period, pro-European regimes cannot understand that there is no European future for Serbia. Is it a problem for you to deceive citizens with this supposedly bright European future for so long and that you are all the problems we have in the country and your inability to better organise and public services and to improve the lives of citizens in Serbia, always justify what you say - when we enter the EU, then it will be better, but the problem is, we cannot enter? Then in 2005, then 2017, then 2019, then 2025, but then your friends come from the west and say it's not going to happen. The other problem is that the regulations you are harmonising, some of which are, in the meantime, you are doing it with a great delay, and so much so that some of you have had some changes in the EU in the meantime, and we are going to have the laws that we are making today and the regulations that we are changing are being forced to do for a not-so-long time, or within a shorter period of time to bring again. It would either be better to be up-to-date or wait nice and do the whole job at the same time, and best and brightest of all, it would be to admit that there is nothing from the EU, that we as a state should turn to our own interests. Even representatives of the ruling coalition spoke of the benefits of free trade and the benefits of Serbian citizens since signing a free trade agreement with the Eurasian Union. And we agree and we are very happy that you finally understood what we in the SRS have been propagating for 30 years. Some, however, realized that they forgot, so now they realize again, but then be consistent at some point until the end. We have had opportunities to listen to a lot about the problem of television that illegally operate and broadcast their programme in Serbia, although they did not register for this activity in accordance with the applicable legislation. I will remind you, Mr. Sarčević, at a time when you were not a minister, perhaps you weren't involved in politics, perhaps at that time you weren't following, that at that time the SRS was talking about these TVs being illegally broadcast commercials, that it was completely public, because you can find a price list on their websites for how many seconds, that these are not programs that just re-emission for the Serbian market and sometimes even these channels had commercials in Hungarian and some other languages. One of the ones that brought up the problem at the outset is the owner of the SOS channel, which even for a time was excluded from the SBB, had huge problems because of it and you understand the problem, you know the problem, but unfortunately there is no state reaction. You are putting people in an unequal position who operate in accordance with the laws of the Republic of Serbia, who pay taxes to the Republic of Serbia, of which you also perform your functions, of which you do what you are elected. My question is for you – how long will you understand the problem and when will you take some concrete steps? Does the EU ask you for the rule of law? Search. Here, my proposal is to go by shutting down all these channels that are illegally operating in Serbia, so as you send an EU report, send a report - here, in accordance with your instructions on the rule of law, we have set out the laws of Serbia to apply and abolish the channels that have been illegally operated in Serbia and thus inflict damage on those who work in accordance with the law, but also on Serbia's budget and on all its citizens. We heard from the minister, he said in his statement that there are many serious states in which he said the ministry is particularly concerned with copyright and industrial property. That sounded a little bit like you were complaining. Do you find it strange what you said? Those are your words, that you're dealing with this, but it was supposed to be solved at the time of the government's formation or that it belonged to another ministry. If you've accepted that it belongs to you, then no more whining. Then it's a job that is in accordance with the Government and Ministry Act in your portfolio and that you willingly or reluctantly have to do. We listened in the previous period, that is, from previous speakers and to the protection of actors about the protection of their works, that this will now be much better. I ask you, Mr. Minister, what about protecting the copyright works of ballet artists? Have you heard of ballet artists, what about their rights? They have no rights. I'll tell you why. Because you ballet artists have been wiped out of the artist's register. They exist, for example. circus artists. It's art for you, but ballet artists don't exist. You've erased, erased their rights, erased the possibility of an unfettered internship, and that's gone. I assume, Minister, that you go to the opera very often, to ballet and that you will be able to see, for example, one of the following years. a 60-year-old ballerina, because the benefits of a work experience are not available and perhaps it will be another one of the things that will make Bulgarian tourists push in Belgrade, next to that singing fountain, which has stopped singing, but no one mentions it, may also come to see ballet artists who are not artists, who must, in order to turn 40 years of employment, work until 60. Now, I don't know if it's one of the EU's directives to abolish the status of artists. We listened, Mr. Minister, about the successes that are being announced and about how the Financial Times has declared Serbia the world's investment champion. A few days ago, we heard in a debate that we had a foreign minister who was also the champion of the world and the best foreign minister and in Serbia's history, and that was all, therefore, the talk under the Law on the Protection of Topography of Semiconductive Products. I am now asking myself, Mr. Minister, did you inform the Financial Times that we are passing the Protection Act, or amendments and additions to the Law on the Protection of Topography of Semiconductive Products, and how will the Financial Times just react when you pass this law? You know. Then we heard about how soon in Serbia will be an increased minimum, how it will be bigger than it has been so far and, they say, incomparably bigger than it was two, three years ago, I'll quote -- when we started to deal with the increase of minimumers and the improvement of personal incomes. The ruling majority in less than the same composition, so up below, whether or not it's changed that much, has been in power for seven and a half years. If you are only two or three years in the process of increasing the minimum wage and improving your personal income, what, gentlemen, did you do for the first five years or the first five years on that law when you reduced your incomes in state authorities, when you took down 10% of your pensioners, when you banned employment, then you write off those first five years to fight against the increase in personal incomes and the fight against the improvement of personal incomes, and now I guess this next five-year cycle is going in another direction. Mr. Minister, one of the proposals of the members who, I don't know why he caused special attention as something good, in this law on amendments to the patent law where you added a provision by which in the case where the handling of the competent authority is regulated, in the event that the applicant dies for a patent, and in that case, the competent authority is now determined to interrupt the procedure, because it says - the competent authority does not know who is the successor, any heir to those rights, whether he is interested in inheriting the property rights of the person who applied for a particular patent. I think the previous solution was better. I don't see any reason to interrupt this procedure. It is better to proceed, because what was established as a assumption is that the heirs will be interested in, as is usually done, being heirs and those certain rights. You have, since you like it, I don't know who's writing you these arguments... I'll wait for the minister to finish the phone call. Maybe it's something important. If it's the Financial Times, I'll wait. Thank you. Therefore, an explanation for Article 6 of the bill, which stipulates that compensation will be fixed for employees for finds of employment, and you say so – the proposer notes that the proposed criteria for determining compensation are measured and democratically, imagine democratically, and that it respects the interests of the employer and the employee. What, Mr. Minister, in this case means that the bill is democratic, is voting resolved, is it resolved by a referendum? So this is an expression that has absolutely nothing to do with a member of the law that you're trying to explain this solution. So, you, as a signator of this bill, or someone representing the Government of the Republic of Serbia, must take care of how it is explained and not enough to just stick to those expressions that are popular. The Dosmaniums had one of their favorite expressions – transparently, so everything was transparent, until we explained to them that it meant it in Serbian – transparently. Very soon, they became conductive to the citizens of Serbia and those fairy tales they talked about. However, you are much reminded of them, and you too often use expressions that are absolutely out of place in this place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-10-0.u60343	Thank you, colleague Sarovic. The word is made by MP Vladimir Orlic, a replica to the presentation of his colleagues, Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-10-0.u60344	Since there was a grudge to be said today about everything and everything, and then after that grudge of everything and everything, a few notes. As for Serbia's entry into the EU, no, we have never been so unserious that any date is forecasted and given on our part. That's what some others did. This was done by those who were so successful in their stories and in their activities that they were permanently, by the will of the people, placed in the dark history of this country and those others no longer have any chance of dealing with anything in this country. We did something else in the meantime. We've been dealing with the arrangement of opportunities in our society. We've been strengthening our economy. We have brought investors today thanks to this kind of relationship, thanks to the successful policy of Alexander Vukic and SNS, we can praise that we really have over 3.8 billion investments at the annual level, in euros, that today's famous and sound names, such as the Financial Times, are announced and said – Serbia is a world leader in some economic discipline and since there is a question of whether there is any of our incompetence, be free to measure our inability to have a higher price, a minimum labour price twice what it was like before we started to reform the sector, be the measure of our incompetence of the average salary of 500 euros in Serbia, Alexander Vucic and SNS compared to the former 320 or 330, may be the measure of our inability of more than 120,000 new jobs in over a hundred factories and power plants, soon being the two hundreds of politicians that have opened up to SNS. What we've been doing is seen in the streets of Belgrade, you can see from the case of this fountain that we talked about today, but also in the world of art that some are livingly concerned about, you can see in the National Museum, you can see in the Museum of Contemporary Art, you can see in the fantastic central square, the Square of the Republic, which is officially opened in the presence of more than 300 artists. Thanks to these things, we are today, in the opinion of some of those from the world who are looking at all this and who are investing here today and who are helping those programs that employ hundreds of thousands of people, as they say themselves, are one of the most beautiful places to live. This is how those who follow it experience us, and those who have missed all these things, missed these jobs, missed investments, missed Milos the Great or the southern arms of Corridor 10, let them not miss but in October the end of the eastern arms of Corridor 10. Is there a reason for some... (President: I thank you, colleague Orlic. )......................................................................................................... Sleeping or busy needing to Google what is the Financial Times? It doesn't matter. These are the results that are important. This is what Serbia sees, understands Serbia's vote today.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-10-0.u60345	The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-10-0.u60346	Mr. Milicevic, as I understand it, today's replica takes three minutes and two seconds. What's common, what's in the Rules of Procedure, is that it takes two minutes. I don't have a problem with you continuing as long as you do it the same way for every speaker. I don't think you had any reason, no right in accordance with the Rules of Procedure to give the replica to the previous speaker. I didn't mention him or the ruling party, or any official of the ruling party, and he said he recognized himself in what I said that in the previous part of the debate we heard everything and everything. He recognized himself in everything and everything and gave himself the right to replication. We have just heard that it is open, as you say, a magnificent square of the Republic with 300 artists present. There may have been artists, but the ballet artists were gone, because you've abolished them. You've lifted the status of artists and I'm surprised why they even agreed. I think what they're supposed to do is, at least out of protest, they refuse to show up at such an event, and that at least that's how they indicate the status they have in society. So, don't make up replicas where they're not there, there's no need, this debate went in a very nice tone. Here, and the minister has now received information about the associate, so he'll get back to us, and here he comes to tell us. So, this is all going pretty well, but let's still have a little respect for the Rules of Procedure, just one more thing to add to Mr. Milicevic that I don't forget. The predecessor spoke about how representatives of the former regime were placed at the disposal of history, if I understood correctly. Is that right? But your problem is that, apart from the part of that regime, and what I think is, now that's a smaller part, you have a lot of those who have somehow grown white from that garbage dump of history, run into the ranks of your coalition partners or run directly into the ranks of your party. Now that these people were good people who directly implemented DOS policies, they were ministers, they were directors of public enterprises, so they weren't some silent observers who had nothing to do with it. As they were not good then, as their policy was not good then, it is not good today, and they are good when they are representatives of the SNS. Now, that's the point. So you give up coalition partners, do it publicly, say it's no good, that one, that one, name the parties, name the individuals, but if you give up, then none of them are good. It wasn't good politics, none of them were right.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-10-0.u60347	I thank my colleague Sarovic. As you can see, since you first addressed me, the arches are equal for both MPs of the position and MPs of the opposition and colleagues of Orlic and you had the opportunity to complete your thought during the replica. So it's not just a case during today's session. It's a principle I always apply to MPs and positions and oppositions. It is up to you, of course, as an MP to assume whether there is a basis for replication, and on me as chairman to decide whether or not I will give the MP a replica. Comrade Orlic, do you want a replica of Mr. Sarovic's exposure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-10-0.u60348	I don't want to get into what's causing someone to recognize themselves in a discussion. I just said I'm helping the discussion, and that's why I've reported to some who need it, actually, if we need to make it more clear, you know that it's never too difficult for us. Whether in my mention of naps or googling someone recognized it I don't know, I don't want to get into it, but whatever the reason is is we remember what reality is, so when it comes to someone's ability, incompetence, what reality is or not to remind ourselves how things are in Serbia today. So, not at any time of any entry into the EU or in some 10 places, but today. Are we talking investment? Listen to what they look like in Serbia today. From EU space 2.1 billion euros in 2018. From the so-called Eastern Asia region covering China with Hong Kong and Taiwan over 700m euros. From the Euro-Asian Union, Russia, Belarus, all member states are still 240m euros. Near and Middle East, UAE and all the other 170m euros. When we add that up, we get to those billions that are the real state of investments in Serbia today. We get to everything we do, what we talk about. Of course, that means a lot more separation for culture and infrastructure and for the fact that today we have all these museums that the former regime has shown how old they are, by closing them down. These DOS governments we're talking about now, they're closing the Museum of Contemporary Art and the National Museum, and they've never cared about culture, urban planning, the center, the square that we already have, or the new Sava Square that we're building again, to build a fountain or a pasarel that we've just talked about, and they've never moved their fingers to make them, and yet we've made them ourselves. I think that's enough to indicate who took care of Serbia and what reality is in Serbia today. I said, let it be a measure of our ability and the abilities of those who devastated Serbia, their average salary compared to that of 500 euros today. And it doesn't have to have anything to do with those who were the coalition partners they were, and today, their coalition partners, they're examples working in Old Town. Here, let's not worry about them, just let the former regime remember that in this room they promised Alexander Vukic in the words -- when the average salary in Serbia is 500 euros, we will all have to vote for you, I confess in advance, you deserve it. Is the way not to keep that promise by making up boycotts today or by pretending that it is not the reality of what it is in Serbia. I think the answer to Serbian citizens is more than clear, no matter what anyone thinks about the topic of other people who are involved in the policy we are conducting. With us, the door is always open, who wants to work for Serbia is more than welcome. Just be prepared to mean hard work, day and night work, the result that is always sought in the end, the result of which some thought was fantasy, and now they'll have to figure out a way not to keep their promise. In any case, they will be as unsuccessful as they were and Serbia will be much better today than it was in their time, just as it appears.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-10-0.u60349	I thank my colleague Orlic. The word has a representative of the promoter, Minister Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-10-0.u60350	I'm only doing the general public to say a few of those. There are independent bodies. That's why they're called independent, because they're not controlled by executive authority. When it comes to broadcasters, of course REM does not set up the Ministry of Education and Science, nor does the mention of the Agency and the people sitting here with me, or the Institute. REM's council is elected in the Assembly, so it's something that can be regulated by this body when it comes to broadcasting those who have no right to do so. I'm rooting it all out so artists can get more money and it's very simple. The concept of these laws is intellectual property, not other labour rights. So, both ballet artists and others can regulate their rights through other laws, that's the right for a benefited internship and other benefits. We're actually raising them a chance to earn more because they belong to the interpretation category. Just like the actors, like everyone else. So here it's regulated by the members of 116, 117. I think intellectual property is improving their status, but other ministries and other laws are very important to deal with. Otherwise, when it comes to patent laws, there are solutions that precede the first agreement between the employer and the worker, and only then the legislative regulations.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-10-0.u60351	I thank the ministers. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first one notice, that during a time period of 14 hours and 15 minutes to 15 hours, and then from 18 hours to 21 hours we will not have a direct transmission of the session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Now, as soon as it's 14 hours and 15 minutes, it's in accordance with Article 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I set a break of one hour. We'll be back in 15 hours and 15 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-10-0.u60352	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-10-0.u60353	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Dear ministers, with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, I would say, important points are on the agenda, three IPR laws that aim to bring these areas into line with EU legislation. We have heard from you, Minister, as well as from the authorised representative of the SNS, the esteemed colleague Orlic, all of the most important elements that change in these proposals and when it comes to patents and when it comes to intellectual property and all of those creative solutions that we complement existing gaps in these areas, which have so far been part of, let me say, legislation when it comes to the above. To me, the most interesting thing is the relationship of some MPs, or some MP groups, to this subject. So, for some of their reasons they haven't come to this session again, they're justifying it with some kind of boycott, some of them have come, but only to the assembly hall. Well, they held some press conferences here yesterday and today. Some were in this room this morning, but only in part of the session when parliamentary questions were asked. The agenda obviously doesn't interest them, what's on the agenda doesn't interest them or have nothing to say. That's the best he's saying, Mr. Minister, about these bill proposals being of quality, as soon as we haven't heard a single fundamental objection to them by now, so in this part of the debate. It was that Zivkovic, Zoran, here yesterday, I mean when I say here, I mean in the assembly hall, he held a press conference, and the only thing he said about this session and these agenda points was -- and why isn't it connected to last week's session? Why a special session? Why a special session? Be careful how hypocritical it is, the loudest were in the demands not to combine the agenda points that are not related to each other, and yesterday at the press conference, why didn't we bring this session together with last week, so why didn't we bring it all together nicely with last week's session when international agreements were on the agenda? But that's their policy, when they don't know what they want and what they're up for, whether they're for the election, whether they're for the election, whether they're for the boycott, etc.? Well, according to that, they keep changing their requirements and their conditions. One week they're bothered by election laws, even though it's their election laws. They've passed these electoral laws that bother them today. So one week they're bothered with the voter list, then next week they're changing it, so they're bothered with funding, or the way the pre-election funding is regulated, and now they're having trouble with Vucic's appearance in the media lately. They would now like to ban Vukic from appearing in the election campaign. But still, they all agree on one thing, which is this latest madness, to make some kind of transitional or pre-election government. Now, imagine this madness, to make some kind of technical government that, of course, they're going to enter and, in fact, without a choice to take over government in the state. The one Vjesni Bosko Obradović, that's Happy, that's the nickname Velja Ilic gave him the other day, I personally agree with that nickname. Now, this Bosko Obradovic says on a television show yesterday, that the boycott decision was made on a very representative sample, so he says – over 90% of the Dveri municipal boards said in some poll, and it was a very representative sample for him. Make a man some kind of survey on his municipal boards, otherwise he's got five at best for them, and he says it's a representative sample. I have to admit, I haven't heard anything funnier lately. If it wasn't funny, it would be sad. It was in that part of the show before he was involved with some realists, maybe thinking about getting into some reality program, I wish him all the luck in that sense. Again, that Jeremic is talking about some battles, battles for the opposition's soul. I guess they're planning to fight each other, I don't know what kind of battles it is. So, all in all, a circus in general directed by Dragan Gilas, who at all costs wants to put all opposition parties under his control, trying to make an alibi for the election debacle by declaring the boycott. But the citizens, here it is the other day in Medvedja, but also in all other places, have shown very clearly what they think of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-10-0.u60354	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. The word is Ivana Dinic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-10-0.u60355	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, fellow MPs and MPs, today we are focusing in the Assembly on very important draft laws, including the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on patents and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Topography of Semiconductive Products. In fact, these two draft laws have so far been defined by the current patent law and the Law on the Protection of Topography of Semiconductive Products. However, the changes and additions of these existing laws allow for the creation of a much more favourable business environment and legal protection of patents, as well as topography of semi-conductive products for foreign investors and domestic economic operators operating in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. The proposed amendments and additions to the patent law, as a law in the field of intellectual property, allow for a direct impact on legal certainty in the domain of innovative activities, economic operators by regulating in a much more precise and clearer way relations between employers and employees in innovation creation jobs. By increasing efficiency in this domain, we can expect foreign economic operators to be more motivated to invest in research and development in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, which will stimulate the development of market competition. These additions and changes affect only those economic operators that create innovation within working relationships. On the one hand, employers will be stimulated to invest in research and development, and on the other hand, employees will work to improve the work process, as they will receive the due cash compensation. Since the criteria for determining the cash compensation are defined by these amendments and by additions to the law, employees will receive adequate compensation for their work. In this way, it contributes to the arrangement of mutual rights and the obligation of the employer and the employee in the case where the employee creates innovation in the employment relationship. It is also defined before the creation of the work relationship finds themselves, which are both the rights and obligations of the employee in relation to the same, and also the employer will have reasons to encourage a quality working environment, enable the use of certain resources, information for simpler and more meaningful work of employees, as well as training for employees. The employer will use protection in his name, using his inventions to increase the profits of the company. The right to protect, exploit the find created in a working relationship is regulated by a labour contract or by a general act of the employer. However, unless such provisions exist, the proposed solutions to this patent law are applied. The proposed changes and additions to the protection of work-related finds resolve the investor's relationship towards investing in innovative activities in our country's companies. Ensuring a good balance between the interests of the employer and the employee, when it comes to exploiting the invention created in the employment relationship creates a healthy innovative mood of business operators in our country and the development of competitiveness of business entities on the domestic and foreign market. For all of this, I must commend these amendments and supplement the existing law, because in one comprehensive and precise way it regulates many imperfections of the existing law. In addition to all this, there are high hopes and expectations that the number of patent applications by companies will increase significantly, as from now on both employers and employees will have full legal protection in relation to the availability and exploitation of patents created in a working relationship. This way is a direct impact on the progress of a knowledge-based society that our society is seeking in this information and technology age in which we live. Also, no less important and unifying changes and additions to the Law on the Protection of Topography of Semiconductor Products, which are in fact the concrete fundamentals of the technological development of today's society, because the application of topography of semi-conductive products can be seen from the production of the simplest household appliances to the most perfect technical equipment. The proposed changes and additions allow an extension of the extent in which topography can be subject to protection, then define protection entities, i.e. The right to protection, as well as the action which is the holder of the right of recognised topography, may prohibit third parties from taking action without its authority. The proposed amendments and amendments to the law are prescribed that the authority responsible for the adoption of the sublaw... (President: Talk, talk to your colleagues, go ahead.) I just wanted the minister to listen. Thank you. The office runs the topography register, instead of two registers, as has been the case so far. From now on, all data that are entered, relating to topography applications, as well as recognised topography, will be entered in the unique register, the topography register, so that all data related to a particular topography will be found in one register. So far, it has been true that topography registrations have been recorded in data that have been defined until topography has been recognised, and topography records have only just been recorded on recognized topography. What was actually intended to achieve such amendments and additions to the law is to adapt with international regulations and standards in this area prescribed by the European Union, on the basis of which a uniform legal system is created at a level of a larger number of states, which can convince any foreign person that in the Republic of Serbia will achieve full legal protection and that their investment in our territory is safe. Ensuring the protection of such industrial property encourages the development of topography of semi-conductive products, i.e. overall economic development, which directly affects the strengthening of sound market competition. These two proposed amendments to the Law form a sound basis for the development of a scientific and technological field in one society, through the possibility of developing innovative activities and protecting intellectual and industrial property rights. What is important is that in order to implement the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Patents Act, as well as the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Topography of Semiconductive Products, there is no need to provide funding from the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Due to the high seriousness of the approach to making these proposed legislative solutions, the SPS parliamentary group will support both draft laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-10-0.u60356	Thank you, Mrs. Dinic. The word has been made by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-10-0.u60357	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. One thing that is very important is, which we all somehow forget here, that is, MPs of the ruling majority, and this set of laws, as all previous ones show the political scene of Serbia. One political scene that belongs to the left by ruling MPs, these are MPs who support each and every part of the European Union. There is no difference between those who do not come and them in that ideological sense. Both Dragan Gilas and SNS and the SPS and all their coalition partners are actually for the European Union, the only SRS against joining the European Union. And how funny it seems now, for example, this law, amending the law, supplementing copyright and related rights, is the fact that a new law has been passed in the European Parliament and you are now discussing it and you want to adopt it, and in a week, a month or two, you will have to make changes and supplements again. What's interesting now? I may have criticised Minister Sarcevic, but when we look at the history, Minister Sarcevic was not even the minister when she was the first public debate on this law, five years ago in parliament, it was then organised by the Committee on Culture. Right, five years ago, the first public hearing was this? And now instead of the ministry that started some work going on, ping-pong, let's skip it. After the first public debate, a working group was formed a year ago, which was spoken of by Natasa Jovanovic, where Sokoya's members participated, then bypassed. Why? Because you have to bring this law into line with the principles of the European Union according to a strategy that speaks from 2018 to 2022 on full compliance and because there are some things that are not good, you have completely avoided those professionals who say – well, wait, it is not all good that works in the European Union. Now, to understand what you've gotten yourself into, this law that the European Union has passed in Article 11 and Article 13 will create total darkness on the Internet when it comes to online spheres, Internet spheres. Are you going to rewrite that now? Do you know in art. The 11th and 13th of that law, you will now have to coordinate immediately after this adoption, says it will be selective to access information that will be able to go online? Since you have spoken so much about the media today, will we also experience that a European Union, which calls itself a democratic one, is passing a law that says – from today on both Facebook and YouTube and everywhere, will be selective release and informing, or what can be shared, what is not. That's the problem that you are before you read what they have brought before us Members of Parliament with a proposal that you will have to supplement again. The other problem is that you over 30% of this law have made changes and additions. Then there was a new law to be made. Just to understand how devastating the path to the European Union that you are leading and representing is, unfortunately, Article 11 states that when you see it, you will see it, you will get it soon or you have read it, in fact, it will be able to protect only large companies, under this new law of the European Union, which is the proposing one, and it has passed. These companies will be able to draw their own censorship through protection, along with the censorship of the media back in the years, for 30 years there has been no media freedom in Serbia, there used to be more, sometimes less, but mostly there is no media freedom. You are now divided by the rule of your media with these total traitors on the right with their media. The evidence is that round tables are no longer available, the strongest parliamentary group in the opposition, representatives of the ruling majority were never allowed to go to a TV duel. What's going to get the most of them? Social networks will suffer, authors will suffer, individuals who, unless they have in some production, have protection of their copyrights when they hang on to a social network, a social network like Facebook or some others, will have the right to take off, even though it is his copyright, for example, a song, a work, a work of art, whatever you want. These are the laws of the European Union. Will you also agree, since you say, according to this, that it is your obligation, because you have complied with an organisation that does not think well with Serbia and continued the path of Dragan Gilas, the late Zoran Djindjic, Vojislav Kostunica and many others, although Kostunica has recently come to his senses, so he tried something, but it was too late. Now, a gentleman who recognized himself an hour and a half ago as a gentleman all sorts of things wanted to mention something, some old town, if I wasn't wrong, I think I heard right. And he said, he lasted until the ninth minute of his exposure not to mention his coalition partner, Dragan Gilas, and only 12 o'clock to praise his leader. A gentleman needs to remember everything that we're not easy to think about and that we're just so easy to forget. The gentleman was looking forward to all sorts of things when in July of 2012 together with DS, remember, watch out, DS and G17 built power in the municipality of Rakovica. At the time, the current state secretary, Milicko, was the president of the municipality voted by DS committees Dragan Dilas, meaning Dragan Djilas, as the then mayor and party president and G17, Mladjan Dinkic. And then the SNS committees unanimously voted Branislav Vujovic's first on the DS list, who called for the president of the Rakovic municipality's assembly, and then even the media, through the famous Public Service, to invite, like "Blica" and many others, to invite, even suggest to some of their committees, and see how we have done a good coalition, to do everywhere with them. So they made such a coalition in Lazarevec. Why? It was also a logical set of circumstances. Who makes DS then makes sense that she supports it. On the other hand, it's logical because they only changed certain personnel when the DS fell out of power. Is DS for the EU? Yes, it is. Is that the gentleman and everything? It wasn't a month and a half, he was a member of the SRS and then he was for big Serbia, he was against the EU. When he changed his membership card, it's these modern politicians, then politically modern for money you say whatever you're told. But that's not the end of it. In 2013, they also said that in the wake of their presentation, there was one news, which was supposed to impress Serbian citizens, which is that as many as 200 DS members flew to Lazarevic from DS to SNS. I guess you're so humanely strong, and the same thieves you're talking about were good when they took your membership cards, like you didn't attack Dragan Gilas for years. When he was supposed to be your mayor, when he was supposed to be your president of the basketball union. When you took the Helen Trivan who spoke most of you in this room about you, now she's your director and you say she's the best. Well, via Goran Vesic, Siniši Mali, Mladjan Dinkic, director of public enterprises in Belgrade. What are you talking about? Ideologically, you are the clones of the DS and continue the path of the destroyed road after 5 October 2000. Yeah, we have to admit one thing, with less likely theft than it was, with more work, because there was no work. It's absolutely incorrect information that gentlemen are in some kind of conflict, because there are no conflicts between them. And so it will continue, because they're used to making a hundred times-said lie into truth by means of the media, and so do their people. Also, the gentleman spoke all sorts of things about the average salary of 500 euros and talked about Medvedja. Here I was, as a messenger of the people, in Medvedja. I'd like the MP gentleman to take me all sorts of things to see at least 5% of bear citizens who have that average salary, at least 5%. There's no average salary. Average salaries are in agencies, which were formed by SNS and DS, which were thirty earlier, today there are 330 and there are salaries of 700 to 2,000 euros. When you're talking about a minimum wage increase, say one more thing. It's true, it's easy for you to attack them, not that they didn't do anything, they destroyed Serbia, and you just kept going softly. How much did the energy cost? What was the cost of living in Serbia and with what salaries, and today when your salaries jump, how much they jump, for example. On a weekly level of liters of oil derivatives? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-10-0.u60358	Thank you, Mr. Damjanovic. The right to replica has Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-10-0.u60359	Thank you very much. Since the SNS was mentioned and a certain ideological debate was launched, if I understood correctly. Ideology of SNS is a policy of the right center, a real national policy. And that's on the subject of whoever in this debate has been mentioned in any way, and any ideology has. We have it and ours is clear and we can always talk about it very happily. Dragan Gilas, there's no ideology unless we're of course talking about the worship of money as the greatest value. That's quite clear. Whether it is pro-European or anti-European to him or anyone else, he can talk to both the best and worst about the EU depending on how he wakes up that morning and it is completely irrelevant and it is not relevant at all, it only matters if it brings him money as much as anything else in this world. It is the same with the remains of the yellow company DS and others who make up most of them in the township of Stari Grad, including those who are shaking alive because we here mention the municipality of Stari Grad but make up the coalition with Bastac, the on-call hooligan who otherwise heads for the Belgrade town of Gilas's organisation, which they call the party, although it is all the party is not. These people are personally responsible for more than a hundred million dinars of direct damage to the citizens of Old Town only on the case of the "Milan Gale Muskatirović" sports centre, and another tens of millions of dinars on different grounds. But when other things like the media are mentioned here, it is worth knowing, that they are directly working with other members of the former single yellow company, say Zelenovic from Sapac, his television Shabac, if we talk about the media, fostered on the second or third floor, by someone who knows it precisely, the Old Town municipality, because they care so much about freedom of the media, because they have so much of an ideology that is not Gilas's ideology of money worship, which, of course, in the case of Gilas brings up to 619m euros in the accounts of his companies. In the case of these others who like to remind, thank you for reminding us that the SNS wins in all Belgrade municipalities and will not worry about winning and those in whom Bastac is now so well boasted and the money is divided so nicely. Don't worry about it, it will be soon, but in their case, the peak of political imagination and probably political benefits, the economic benefits, however you wish, should be participation in the Supervisory Board of Studies "B" at the time of that Dragan Gilas. And if we talk about the average salary that is in Serbia today, 470 euros, it will be 500 in a month, don't worry about anything, then they received compensations that were significantly higher than the average salary in Serbia, on which I congratulate my heart. At the very end, which mentions social networks, it's quite clear to me, it's about people like Dragan Gilas, Bastac and others living politically only on these Twitters and social networks, but it's not a lot of comfort either, because even if some elections were organised there, what do you think would happen again would Alexander Vukic have three times more votes than all of them together.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-10-0.u60360	Thank you, Dr. Orlic. The right to replica has Miljan Damjanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-10-0.u60361	Thank you. Here, the citizens of Serbia could see when someone who only has a learned text as a parrot can repeat and not respond to anything brutally but spends time to forget. The first thing was that Mr. All and all things needed to explain how the DS was his acceptable coalition partner right at the time he was mayor of Gilas, and now, their president of the municipality, Mr. Milicko, was talking about the coalition he concluded with DS Dragan Gilas – we agreed very quickly on a programme that is in the interest of the citizens. Again, the SNS representative tells the DS when the real government -- we agreed very quickly on a programme that is in the interest of citizens. And then I pick him up, ideologically responds, and I pick up from the DS matches the forwarder and so on in the media – it is well known that Mayor Gilas's position that local politics should not be burdened with topics that are not related to the better life of Belgraders. This is the Serbian Progressive Party. Another question not answered - 500 euros. I'd like the first one to be a thousand euros, two thousand, three thousand. I'd probably live a lot better with my family and my kids tomorrow. Why didn't you answer me, Mr. "all sorts of things"? Let's go together to Medvedj, to Babusnica, where you will, to Alexinac, the Great Plan, you want to go somewhere, let's go you and me and find me those people who work for 500 euros without your officials in certain municipalities and cities and not by agencies. Stop making fun of the people. So, no problem, you and I are going. Shall we move on? Shall we go to developed places? We want to go to Požega, where are your men arrested, and we support you in that power? Our congratulatory and your arrested. Shall we go to Ariel's? Shall we go to Ivanjica? We want to see where the other categories are? They don't exist. It's true, it's failed because of the neglect of the previous ones. But don't give in to the feathers with something that doesn't have a slight meaning and enter the dialogue you don't need needlessly. Don't forget how you came to be. If we're going to do this, we can do it all day, and I'm going to quote you a hundred more things and prove that I'm right, unlike you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-10-0.u60362	Thank you, Mr. Damjanovic, with one request that we treat each other with dignity. Mr. Orlic is far from it, not "all things" but an honourable MP, deputy head of the parliamentary group. And even if it wasn't, from the very least, I expect us to treat each other with all due respect. Here, Dr. Orlic, you have the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-10-0.u60363	Don't worry, Mr. Chairman, if I'm not worried, and I don't expect anything better, I don't need to worry you either. (President: only dignity, that's what I'm obliged to take care of. In any case. So, as for the majority formed in any municipality, Belgrade or not, and brought together by the Serbian Progressive Party, it is easy, of course, to support the Serbian Progressive Party's candidate for the president of the municipalities when a good and successful policy is supported, and they know it very well, among other things, the representatives of the Serbian Radical Party in numerous Belgrade municipalities, but not only in Belgrade's municipalities. He's working on the case, at Chukarica, which I'm coming from. Anyone can freely ask the Serbian Radical Party's board members if they have accepted very easily that they support the good and successful policies of the Serbian Progressive Party. Or the Palilu municipality. Pick someone else. That's not the point of the problem. The point of the problem is that the moment you decide to support something, you define for some values and some of the results or effects of the policy that you have supported. When you support the Serbian Progressive Party, you can only be satisfied. It appears in every municipality where our people are working to produce a result, to fight more than it was in that territory before we started dealing with the problems and needs of citizens. But, on the other hand, when you support someone like these Gilas thieves, and you do it in Old Town, when you support Bastac, then you have to bear responsibility for it and share with them consequences such as 100 million dinars of dubiosis, just on the case of one sports center, or tens of millions in the case of Gerontohome girls, or explain how you advocate it for freedom of thought, words, media, whatever you want, by supporting Zelenovic, who made such beautiful results for Shabac that one police would do nothing else if you were to deal with him alone. So these are all the results you stand behind when you support such people. And there's nothing to be angry about after other people, least of all us. He chose his own society and such an environment, both today and at the time when he accepted to be a member of the Supervisory Board. Some others were members of boards or boards of directors, but all of Dragan Gilas, and received, how today's compensation from Bastac in Old Town, so back then from Gilas, who, if we talk about the average salary, was much higher. I congratulated you on that, I congratulated you on that from the heart, every honor you've made, for yourself, of course. Since Dragan Gilas, they've been receiving these incomes directly for themselves. The average salary, if we remember, was at 320 euros in Serbia. Today, in Serbia, all year round 2019, it is over 465, 470 euros. And I say one more time, it'll be very fast 500 euros. Well, if we take care of what we're providing the citizens, we'll compare those and Gilas's 320 to these 500 and it'll be all but clear. Finally, to fight with quotes, there is no problem, to start with -- we advocate equal membership in the European Union with Kosovo and the Serbian-based Metohija -- said Vojislav Seselj in 2008, which I also congratulate.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-10-0.u60364	Thank you, Dr. Orlic. He was looking for Mr. Damjanovic's replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-10-0.u60365	Here, again, Serbian citizens had the opportunity to skillfully try not to give an answer. And I'm just agreeing-- everyone shares their destiny and politics. As your high-ranking official said then - with you from the Democratic Party we easily agreed and you made power. I guess we won't hear any further, not about the crabs, the Lazarets and many others. But let's go back to this information that's completely made up and proof of what we're saying, that we're a Serbian Radical Party but a democratic character when it comes to decision-making. When Serbian radicals ruled Zemunom, Mr. Orlic, then all representatives of opposition parties had members of the boards of directors and supervisors. Just for reasons we have nothing to hide, so they can monitor how we work. This Mr. Martinovic will now confirm to you Mr. Marijan Rističević. And each had one or two sides in the newspaper, the Zemun newspaper, where they could express their political position. Now, how well you're not informed. First of all, I wasn't a member of the board of directors, I was a member of the board of directors. Secondly, my fee was 20,000 dinars, and you were in your lenses at the time, and it was very easy to verify. And thirdly, we are offered as the strongest opposition then by this very principle, and you can check how I worked, whether I voted and what I did for this Studio B. And you can still admire Dragan Gilas and famous sentences, which you will do the first time coalition partners leave you, to reassemble the alliance. Because you know how, who created you, hands caress you, he'll still be a good friend to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-10-0.u60366	Thank you, Mr. Damjanovic. The right to replica has Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-10-0.u60367	Now, Mr. Orlic, you asked for this dialogue and debate yourself, but our arguments are much stronger. In fact, you started out like that, along the way, at that speed of yours, at the fifth speed, before the break, so here are those that are in the Old Town municipality in the coalition, etc., and now that we've come to concrete facts and data, that in July 2012, at the last moment you've made a coalition because you wanted to be in power in the Rakovic municipality with Gilas's boardmen who were after you, you were 17, those 16 councilmen, the SPS, I think, seven, and these Dinkic thieves three, and then your Milickovic said that's great! Why argue over something good when it's local politics and it has nothing to do with the country's politics? Then you came to define what it is and where you are as a political party, your ideology. Well, didn't he at the establishment of your party, Tomislav Nikolic, say that your ideology is to be happy EU citizens? That was ten years ago. Serbia will never become an EU member, and you have continued, yet the event gene has been beautifully illustrated by counterpart Damjanovic, DS policy and EU assembling. Then you didn't explain to us now, if this is your ideology, the right centre of national policy and so on, how you in the coalition with Ugljanin in Novi Pazar, in Tutina, in Prijepolje, and it is for the old Raska area to secede from Serbia, he even called for some militant actions among the ranks by breaking the Constitution, to admit the Shiptar so-called. the state of Kosovo and then explain to us, how did you get into such a coalition? Why don't you break up that coalition that's against the state of Serbia? There you have a good time and your members there receive both administrative and supervisory fees, they are larger members, they have various functions, directors and businesses. As far as we're principled, here we are, sir, your MP from that county, to say. We in Šapco, Mr. Orlic, as a party that has in principle acted against thieving, robbery and all that Zelenovic is doing, we have been participating together for two weeks with the citizens of Serbia, as well as members of your party, in protests against that thief Zelenovic, because that is our principle there, for Sabac, that is the decision of our municipal board, because we want to expose the mafia everywhere and in every place. Anyone who tried, which is what they were actually trying to do, but of course they never did anything, when they came to power after October 5th, they could do, when it came to our party, that any Serbian Radical, anywhere or ever said something had done something against the law, it politically burys itself, because there is no living Serbian radical that has sinned in such a way about the law, whether it participated at the level of the republican government, whether it was in any of the coalitions at the local level. Our principle, responsibility and concern for the state and for the people have always been first and our ideology is such that we always put the interests of the state and the people first.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-10-0.u60368	Thank you. Right on the replica of Dr Vladimir Orlic, then Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-10-0.u60369	Thank you. I think you've got it all mixed up now. You're saying there's no local policy to national policy, it can be defined locally in a special way, and then, no, it has to be connected to the national one, it's not right to form local coalitions if it's someone who doesn't conduct national politics in the right way, in accordance with your vision. Whoever started it and who asked for it, it's easy for a man to remember. It's enough to review the footage of today's session, not just today, but the rule in this room. You'll never see anyone on our side using harsh words and a political attack when it comes to your MP group, because, I don't know, it takes fun, to make the day more interesting, or anything else. We talked, like every time, about the laws we support, about good results for Serbia, and how it started and why it started, it's more than clear. Now, which leads to things you might not be comfortable listening to, my God, that's how it works. As for relations and responsibilities, I say once again, the SNS policy can support whoever it wants, it's ready to work for that policy, it's ready to fight for the result, it can participate, so it will justify trust, or it won't. I reminded myself, such an opportunity was also given to various members of the SRS, in many places. Right? Was it hard to agree, as you say? I don't think so, because it's easy to accept that a successful policy is supported, and SNS policy is exactly that. When we talk about local politics, I haven't talked for a second about the Zemun municipality, I don't know if anyone here understood me properly. I was talking about the city of Belgrade, whose head it was then, which was personally rocked by Dragan Gilas. In this system, within the Belgrade city, Dragan Gilas, with his will as his partners, political partners, included in the work of administrative and supervisory committees of various SRS companies. So this is a direct example, a direct example of political co-operation that I believe was worth it to whoever was involved in this cooperation. If someone was on the board of directors, and I was wrong and said to the supervisory board, I apologize if it was a mistake, but I don't think it affects the essence much. If the essence of the problem is that someone was receiving 20,000 dinars, and thinks it's small, here, I'm also sorry, I'm telling this opportunity that I want him to be more, to be more satisfied, but not to be through collaboration with thieves like Dragan Gilas or his representatives in the Old Town municipality. There is no local or national policy here, ladies and gentlemen. There's nothing but robbery and destruction and damage. What policy, what value do you want local, or national, can someone support with a man like Bastac, who is such a catastrophic damage, financially, makes the citizens of his municipality, which in this way devastates a whole municipality and its businesses, and that's a little bit, and then destroys all over the City of Belgrade? What do you support on a local or national plan? Are those Gilas protests "one out of five million", one of which is a promoter in his town of Suleiman Ugljanin, and on that basis, an associate comes to you? But let's stick to that old town of yours. In addition to these fees, except for the opportunity to be in power, and in power for the sake of power, without a single value, without one single result that you can raise yourself before the people and say – well, this is good and we took part in it, here is why we participated, to do this well. There's only one thing here. Last sentence. I mentioned the Sabbath for one reason. What is the interest of the Old Town to have the media house, the propaganda house, the Sabac TV station there, at Bastac and you who are taking part in it? What kind of interest is that? The interest of the citizens of Whispers? I'm not sure. The interests of the citizens of Old Town, even less. And what is involved in protests against Zelenovic, and here as well as in any other smart thing, is welcome anyone who is open-hearted and pure-minded. But if he's in on it, let him stay for more than two days next time.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-10-0.u60370	Thank you. The word is made by MP Marijan Risticevic, the right to replication, mentioning by name and last name by his colleague Damjanovic. Here you go. I had to explain the basis by which I gave you the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-10-0.u60371	Not a problem with the name and last name, it was stated that I was a member of the Management Board as an opposition. So, as no opposition, nor as authority, I was not even a member of the municipal boards of directors, but only utility companies, etc. I was a member of the RFZO Management Board, but not as a political proposal, but as an insurance worker. There's a pensioner, a worker, a farmer, and four is given by the government. I was like a security guard. At that point, the country was 37th if I'm not mistaken, or 35th, I don't know exactly how many countries are ranked in Europe. From that 35th place, during the duration of my short term as a security guard, I have contributed to qualified the country and to 18th place. It's international ranking, verifiable. We have been past 14 EU countries in this regard. I believe I don't have to be a political proposition, and that I can contribute something from other positions, this time from a standing professional position. I wasn't a member of the board of directors or that they offered me. Like, they were taking a ton from me. When I spoke in the congregation as an opposition, I went out for a pay phone, jumping legs, knees, etc. And I wasn't mad. Democracy is a strange thing. It needs to be built from the inside. That is why today I am not angry with the authorities of the time who have prevented me from expressing my democratic right of speech in the National Assembly through. I think the political parties themselves should decide whether they will join the board of directors on a political basis or not. As far as the EU is concerned, I advocated it, my party is in the programme in 1990, it is small, but as a goal, it highlighted Yugoslavia's entry into the European Community. Today I advocate, I hope to welcome Serbia into the EU, primarily because of the common agricultural policy. For farmers to understand me, if we were EU members, today we would have 500 euros per hectare on average, not 100 euros. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-10-0.u60372	Thank you. The right to replica now has the advantage of being the authorised representative of the Natasa Jovanovic parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-10-0.u60373	I'm replicating my colleague Orlic. The moment Sulejman Ugljanin celebrates some shadowy declaration and advocates the secession of the old Raška area from Serbia, runs an intensive campaign, says everything against the Serbian state, you instead of punishing him, Mr. Orlic, you and SNS, it is as a bomb echoed that news – Vukic in a coalition with the Ugljanin, Ugljanin with the advances, the advances honored Ugljanin, you in a coalition with him, and it lasts, and lasts and will last until the next elections. Then what can we expect after the next local elections? That you'll give him no idea what? His members, members of Ugljanin's SDA Sandzak, Mr. Orlic, I don't know what the date is, maybe there's a salary of 10, maybe they've received 100,000 dinars of wages today, you've bought them for separatism, those corporate directors, the senior members, and then you're saying something that has absolutely nothing to do with political principles, or the control function of the opposition. You said we gave it to you, offered it. It's not about any offer, you know. You win a number of certain mandates in one city, in one municipality and seek a coalition partner or you want him or you can form a government on your own... Don't make it out here now I don't know what and if the citizens of Serbia think we're doing something here, asking for it -- no. We are responsible for the work for which the people have chosen us. We gave all our local committees the opportunity to talk to potential coalition partners in local self-government after local elections. Is there somewhere that any Serbian radical is wrong about the law or does something? Is the president of the municipality arrested, then legitimately elected, Christmas from Požega? Yes, it is. Was he arrested by some kind of radical next to him? It's not. Has the SRS done anything in any coalition that would harm the citizens? You know, Mr. Orlic, while you're already talking about some political principles and everything, because you've moved to the level of this state policy and, please, bear in mind that it's not the same thing that you're with anyone else but the Ugljan in the coalition. You can be with anyone in local self-government, but when you're with Suleiman Ugljanin, it's really a scandal. One Separatist, someone who wants to tear down the state of Serbia, honor him, reward him, give money to his councilmen, his officials, and then say, "You are like this and like this." Look into your backyard first, and then tell someone something, and you've got nothing to say to us.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-10-0.u60374	Thank you, Mrs. Jovanovic. Right on the replica of Dr. Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-10-0.u60375	The Serbian Progressive Party is a guarantee of Serbia's integrity, and if someone sent a clear message, and the message had consequences positively, there is no separatism. That's what we did. There's no one else here who deals with these issues. No one else. Who said you're learning for nothing, and you're yelling at Sulja Ugljanin, and you don't have a function, and don't try to make any whites, you're trying, there's nothing for you. That's what Alexander Wolf said. He didn't say any of you. Alexander Wolfie said. While you think about it and figure out if it has anything to do with local policy or not, since I see that you are constantly confused about these issues, until you untangle it find one reason why it's good to be Gilas' coalition partner or when you've been on board boards together or today when you're with him in Old Town and this savage Bastac. I don't understand why you and Bastac should go to the Republic Square tomorrow and put stuffed toys together, children's stuffed toys on top of someone there. What's that? Is that politics? Is that a benefit for the citizens of Old Town, for the Belgraders? Is that any use to the Rasca area? Who does this world benefit? So, you've reached out, not because it affects you too much, because if it hit you, you'd be reacting by now. You'd be doing something by now. You'd leave that and that Bastache. It is clear to everyone who has motives and interests and what interests you and who binds you stronger than any policy. It didn't hit you. You were struck by a reminder of the 2008 words of Vojislav Seselj. On September 5, 2008, here's a little more to evacuate the memory. Radical MP Dragan Todorovic says their decision, a radical decision, as well as all previous ones, was reached in agreement with party leader Vojislav Seselj, and it is a decision to support the Stabilisation and Association Agreement on 5 September 2008. There are sources B92, "Tanjug" and others. "We will vote in favour of the Law on ratification of the SAA, and these stories of divisions within the party do not have a slight connection to reality," Todorovic was categorical, and at that time an official representative of the SRS, who remained the closest associate of Vojislav Seselj, after that September, October and the coming months. He says: “We decided to take this step because of national and national interests. There is no turning back on the Democratic Party." These reminders hurt someone and that's why all these reactions, but this is a fact. This is what everyone in Serbia knows. Now whoever sits behind the computer can check whether I read or have deliberately exchanged something, and this was all the same as I read to you is also in the letter by Vojislav Seselj, which was read in front of the Central Homeland Administration in which he advocated, to quote once again – for full EU membership, Serbia, so in the EU with Kosovo and Metohija in its composition. Today, when someone gets up and says, "You evil advances, you want in the EU and we want in principle, and we are high morals, we will never, never want to," he directly opposes these words by Dragan Todorovic, who he applauded in 2008 and in words, which is much more important, by Vojislav Seselj himself, who he applauded on September 5th, which on September 11th at the Central Homeland Administration. Was it about working with the DS? Not to make a mistake, I don't think it's then, she came a little later, at a time when Dragan Gilas was dealing with it and when he was handing out generously these boards of directors and supervisors. However, I see many regrets that he was not more generous in terms, so there were only 20,000 dinars, but what can I tell you, I'm afraid that the repairs are neither for Gilas nor for his companions will be.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-10-0.u60376	Thank you. The right to replica has Miljan Damjanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-10-0.u60377	Mr. Chairman, I expected you only to tell Mr. Risticevic that I have not spoken at any time about any board of directors for Mr. Rističević. I said that Mr. Risticevic can confirm that when Serbian radicals were in power in the municipality of Zemun, we offered all opposition committees and political parties and were on boards and boards. We have nothing to fear and to hide. That's all. At no point did I mention Mr. Risticevic in any other segment he spoke of, that there was simply no confusion that I had said something wrong to Mr. Risticevic. (President: I'm sure it wasn't a bad intention. I can do a stenogram. I suggest that Mr. Risticevic take a look at the stenogram. Why did I say that? I spoke for Mr. Orlic who is so in pain that his power with DS, the first immediate coalition with DS, after the victory of the SNS, when they were able to choose coalition partners, when he took to the coalition partner Mladjan Dinkic for whom Aleksandar Vukic said he would be sent to prison on the first day of power. You know, now you need to get up and, for the first time in four minutes and 26 seconds, the second time three minutes and 56 seconds, repeat each time the same thing. Be careful how hypocritical that is. He's talking about someone being unhappy, getting a small fee, and it's not hypocritical, it's ignorance. You know, every government, whether it's local, whether it's urban, there's laws in this country, so there's offices, there's statutes, so they just happen to edit everything in a public enterprise. Whatever power it was then, to remind you, during the time when the SRS was the strongest opposition party in the city's assembly, Dragan Gilas was not allowed in, to come in, as when we attacked them for Luka Belgrade, as well as for the "Great Brother" printed in 100,000 copies, so some gentlemen quoted here, I am pleased, our materials. Now the next question is raised, the Serbian Radical Party has since not been in the republican government, why, Mr. Orlic and his party, who received the most convincing trust of Serbian citizens, has not so far been prosecuted by thieves and its coalition partners, such as Dragan Djilas, such as Mladjan Dinkic, like all those who have been attacked by thieves, criminals, and they need coalition partners? Imagine me breaking into the RTS building with some cold weapons or any Serbian radical? We are arrested and detained for burning the flag of Croatian occupiers. They enter them during this power... Watch out how much SNS decides when they're gonna follow the law. Why aren't the people who fired a cold weapon in the RTS building arrested? Who can decide today whether the law applies or not? So if I go outside the Assembly now, I kill a man, if the SNS says sign for us, or if you're our man, then there's no process. Why wasn't Dragan Gilas arrested? Why hasn't Bosko Obradovic been arrested? And it wasn't one case. And the same SNS in the Republic Election Commission in 2016 gave the right polling stations at the address of the US ambassador, where it is due to repeat elections to introduce parties such as Bosko Obradovic to parliament that have not crossed the censorship.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-10-0.u60378	Thank you, Mr. Damjanovic. Right on the line, Dr. Vladimir Orlic, then Marijan Risticevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-10-0.u60379	So, whenever they mention him, this young Dinkic, I extend my arms again and ask - and where is Mladjan Dinkic? And who made sure he wasn't on the political scene, but you can't find him with a candle to look for him today? And SNS. You didn't do anything about it, and you didn't contribute. Even when it comes to where the DS is, its "yellow company" today? Where are your credits in the fact that they're not here? If they were gone, we know who beat them in 2012, and every year when we organized the elections after 2012. In the city of Belgrade and in 2014 and I believe many have thrown into heavy amok, because then every combination of them ended as they now say some terrible control they had over Dragan Gilas, in fact co-operation. Not to lie, co-operation through membership in the boards of directors and supervisors, but then we won it in the republican elections, and now again in the city elections last year. All to look at as many as there were, wherever they were, we beat these people and Dragan Dilas, personally and his Tadic and his Jeremic and the complete "yellow company" DS, which today in Belgrade, if we talk about him, has no 2% rating. Who took care of it and whose political merits are these? They're not yours for sure. They're not the people who cooperated with them yesterday, and they're working together today. And it's not by supporting something good and smart, nor by saying them agree to support your program, but by supporting their thieving, their breaking up, their devastation, the city councils where they are in power. That's what you support. Not some of your worth. One thing you won't be able to find and say – this is our value supported by Dragan Gilas or Bastac. No, you support them. You know who drives the tractor and who opens the gate there. So, to be clear, all the good that has happened on the political scene in Serbia in recent years is directly the result of Alexander Vukic and SNS. And whenever you ask what happened, you know, what was good, it was thanks to us. Now, what Gilas dared to do, and what he couldn't see, as he said at a time when the SRS was working with him in the city of Belgrade, so I didn't notice anything, I can't remember when he was so terrified of the SRS. I remember your councilmen were able to be very hard on, say, the president of the City Assembly, who, by chance, was a man from the SPS, watering him. Ah, Dragan Gilas to water hard. That wasn't happening. If they're watering Bastache in Old Town today, I wouldn't say anything. Do they at least try to wash it with water when it needs washing, not to tear up construction sites in downtown Belgrade, not to harass people, not to try to beat up the SNS boardman, no. They don't water anyone there, but they do what they've done all these years with them in power and what no one should be angry about. There are also adequate fees. When someone says the law, let them be prescribed by law or otherwise, they exist. And what's been hard on someone, the fact that they only paid 20,000 dinars. I understand, maybe the man wanted more, the man wanted more, but I'm afraid one more time for the correctional won't be. At least for Dragan Gilas. If we're talking about processing, here's the other day, that's what the whole of Serbia sent out, if we talk about the things Serbia sent out, a few people from Gilas's then Darrekt Media company, from RTS, have become officially the subject of investigative authorities' interest. For what? Because of what we've been saying all along. We, not those who co-operated today, are working with Dragan Gilas. If someone had made a big fortune using his political function, using his position, Dragan Gilas was at the posts of the minister, mayor, the absolute leader of his then ruling party in the period when hundreds of millions of euros ended up in the accounts of his companies. And to make such money, among other things, by trading with the public service of RTS, so who can justify it from his then and present associates? I've never met one like that before. Even more interesting, which of the members of either Management Board, or the Supervisory Board, doesn't matter, Study B can justify the same kind of malversion of Gilas's companies with Study B?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-10-0.u60380	Thank you, Mr. Orlic. Now right to the replica and to explain, Mr. Marijan Risticevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-10-0.u60381	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, by 2004, I wasn't even a committeeman. Whether opposition parties entered the boards of municipal public enterprises and institutions, I cannot know. Did they enter the republican, I think, when I was a National MP in 1998, that they weren't. I don't think so, but that's what the government does. It is up to the political parties to decide whether to delegate their board members or not. I was a member of the board of directors of the RFO, I said under what circumstances. We found 35 places, past 18 countries by international criteria and parameters. So our rating jumped 18 places. In this regard, we have been through the quality of health services of 14 EU countries. You certainly see improvement, but I forgot to say, even though I was a representative of the insurance company, so not the government, that the yellow Anti-Corruption Agency announced that I was in conflict of interest. It's like banning a doctor from being a MP. Either to the veterinarian, or to the neuropsychiatrist, because he could allegedly do something for the benefit of his insurance companies, because he's a national MP, so my God, I could do something from here, and no matter what three years of very successful work the entire board of directors, where he often clashed with the ministry, because the Fund is independent, regardless of which the Anti-Corruption Agency probably announced for that reason, or wrote with the given me in conflict of interest. That was why I resigned. So there was no reason for any other, there was no reason for failure, there was no reason for lack of money. From 40 treated children abroad per year, we have come to the fact that we resembled 700 children annually. So that was progress, and in what these unfortunate people who escaped are nagging us, but I repeat again, democracy is not a natural product. It's not a produced value you can take, democracy is built on the inside, people are changing opinions and attitudes. I don't mind the opposition parties being or not on boards, but maybe they should assess the company they're hanging out with, because they better choose society than society chooses you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-10-0.u60382	Thank you, Mr. Ristichevich. We're closing a circle of replicas. I think it's correct for Mr. Risticevic to shut him down. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: It is not correct. An hour. We have to finish sometime. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. ) The word has a People's MP, Zvonimir Djokic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-10-0.u60383	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister with Associates, honourable Members of the People, I will try to return the discussion to today's topic. Serbia has again become a normal, well-organised country with high levels of economic and economic growth in the past few years with SNS coming to power since 2012. It wasn't easy at all. We have achieved this through hard and hard work, very often and with denials, but above all with great wisdom, intellectual efforts and knowledge of the current president of the state, Alexander Vukic and SNS, i.e. A certain circle of people from that party. But first of all, with great wisdom, intellectual efforts and knowledge of the current president of the state of Alexander Vukic and SNS, i.e. A number of people from that party, and above all, with knowledge, wisdom and perseverance of President Vukic. In such an orderly state, it is normal and it is time to do some work and take measures to protect intellectual property, copyright and related rights. By harmonising our legislation with EU legislation in this area, we are already becoming part of a family, countries where, in a unique way, it is almost the same, are regulated and protected by intellectual property, copyright and related rights. Today we are talking here about three laws, a bill on amendments and amendments to the patent law, a bill on amendments and amendments to the Law on Copyright and Related Rights and a bill on amendments to the Law on the Protection of Topography of Semiconductive Products, which was submitted to us by the Serbian Government. At the session of the Committee on European Integration, we supported, we had a session of the Committee yesterday, we supported most of the votes of this bill, but there was a heated debate over some interpretations of certain terms and provisions of these laws, and I hope that the amendments in the debate will come to a minimum in principle. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Copyright and Related Rights, first of all, defines copyrights, but did not agree on some terms relating to the amendment of Article 47 relating to copyright of computer programs, in particular on the multiplication of computer programs, but also on the right to remove errors. However, I will not stick to the details today, I will leave it when we talk about the amendments, but to make it clear, since the whole law is full of professional terms, explanations and formulations, I will translate it into a political language why it is very important to protect this intellectual property, why it is very important to protect copyright and related rights. I'm going to translate it in a way, because normally, every Serb's politics is absolutely clear, and we understand politics and football, so here's what it looks like. By coming to the government of the state, the SNS stepped back on its feet, launched the economy, attracted investment, hired people, opened new factories, built new roads, bridges, filled the budgets, filled the state register, the city registers and, above all, thanks to knowledge, art and wisdom, Alexander Vukic. And if it is a certain political capital, because it is acquired precisely by its wisdom, by its knowledge, by its leadership of the SNS and other parties gathered around the SNS in the coalition, now there is some opposition that can say in a political pirate way, they want to pass the elections, past the will of the people in an illegal way to come to power, because now they find these public registers very attractive, there is a lot of money, they now think they can manage it again successfully, etc. I mean, first of all, to Dragan Gilas, who got rich while he was in power, while the state was failing, I would say by the illegal influence of power and other malversions, but I also think of all those gathered around him, therefore, folkly as they would say, neither onion nor onion smell, now he wants to go back to the full state register. They want to spend what they didn't earn, they want to get rich again by robbing state money made thanks to the knowledge, skill and wisdom of Alexander Vukic. So one of Gilas's public, Bosko Obradovic, remembered how to get political piracy into political capital that is, in fact, intellectual property, that is what we can call it, precisely, Alexander Vukic of the SNS. He remembered, this political charlatan, that by forming a transitional government without a choice, without the will of the citizens, he came back to power without popular will, i.e. He may be the first time. As that famous character, you will all remember, from the humorous satirical TV series "Bela Ladja", the famous, well-known and favorite Srecko Sojojic, who, when he was given the chance to become a minister, accepted to be a minister without portfolios, according to the minister without a chair. As an explanation, he says – I don't need a full mandate, but with full capacity. Then Srecko Šojić, and today Bosko Obradović. Of course, not for this Bosko Obradovic, nor for the help of foreign ambassadors, emisarists and white-world mechanics. Not for Bosko to import a Macedonian script here, if it works for him or works in the interest of Pristina, Haradinaj, Thaci, but against his people, to bring riots and chaos to power, to get hold of the state's tills with no choice, past the will of the people. What, then, is a normal Serb, a normal host, a normal man to say other than – a sea sikter, as President Vukic answered them. Mr. Minister, honourable MPs, I support these bill proposals and I will vote for them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-10-0.u60384	Thank you, Mr. Dickie. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-10-0.u60385	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, respected fellow Members of Parliament, having in mind that an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group, our friend Prof. Dr. Snezana Bošković Bogosavljevic has made a principled position, giving unreserved support to the proposed laws, I will only commit myself to one of the draft laws of this set, which is the Law on Copyright and Related Rights. Of course, distinguished ministers, that in this sense I would also be part of a commitment to a respected colleague, Natasa Jovanovic, who drew attention to whether, within the framework of the Ministry of Education, there is also something that is related to copyright? Personally, I think that given the judicial protection of copyright, which will be my focus of exposure, it is more in the jurisdiction of the Justice Ministry, as in the jurisdiction of the Justice Department should be in the whole of bankruptcy matter. However, in order not to get further away from the topic, I want to draw your attention to a few parts of this law that I think might be more pronounced in quality, and in this direction I will give you some very good-intentional suggestions. Starting from the definition of authorial work as the original spiritual creation of the author, as well as the copyright that arises right from the creation of the author's work, we must also take care of the legal protection and rights of both authors and authors. How does that protection work for a dear colleague? There are two directions. One is, in any case, judicial protection, one direction of protection is criminal protection or criminal justice, and the other is civil law protection. When we talk about criminal legal protection, there is a very clear regulation by the legislator which is a crime which, in its characteristics, in its entity, implies incrimination, which, if implemented, makes sense that he who commits these crimes will be held accountable. For us, they're far more interesting and, in any case, as someone who makes laws, they're more important to these dimensions that apply to civil law protection. I think that's where you came up with the bill's proposal, so that's what you'd say as a pesoriatic, in the center, because you've given very good solutions. The first good solution is that you've expanded the circle of faces that can press charges for copyright violations, and I need to draw attention to when civil law protection is provided, or when courts can prosecute. They may act in the event of a violation of the right, because the case is for the purpose of establishing a violation of the right, then for the purpose of ending a violation of the right, for the purpose of destroying or modifying the case committed by an infringement of copyright, for the compensation of property damage and for the publication of the judgment on the cost of the suit. So far, a narrow circle of faces could have filed a lawsuit. I'm not going to say literally narrow, but significantly narrower than it is now. Now it can be done by organizations that are collectively engaged in copyright protection and that's a good solution, an excellent solution. What can the Honorable Ministers do to create a problem? This law that you have proposed contains a lot of procedural norms, but if this law is interpreted as a lex specialis, and it is a lex specialis, it comes to a certain colitis with the provisions of the Law on a litigation procedure. Why am I saying this? If you have a temporary measure and a temporary measure, you're asking for an end to the violation of justice by ordering the defendant to stop the violation of the law immediately, then you lose the meaning of the lawsuit, then there's no more lawsuits. What does that mean? This means if the court respects Prosecutor Neđa Jovanovic to stop the copyright violation of distinguished counterpart Stefana Miladanovic and the temporary measure comes into force, then the purpose of the lawsuit is lost, because the interim measure has been brought to the legal fact. If the interim measure has produced a legal fact, then what does it mean to decide on a further course of action, what's the charge? I think you understand me when I want to tell you what a procedural and legal problem can be, because if you lose a temporary case of judicial protection, then the court has nothing more to decide on, and there may be problems related to courts, even though I will from the point of view of the profession that I am dealing with commending the courts when it comes to decisions on copyright protection. It is very good, dear ministers, that you have specified how temporary measures are adopted, the measure of security of evidence and that temporary ones can now be brought very simply, or efficiently and urgently, even how this procedure must be conducted without hearing anyone who has been sued. So, I can, as a judge, very simply bring a temporary measure, order certain actions that involve the termination of the threat to someone's copyright. But there is something else here that we in the SPS parliamentary group will present as extremely positive, which is that the information that is necessary to determine the violation or danger of copyright violations can be collected from so-called. third parties or related persons, but not related persons in terms of relation, but connected persons to those from whom information may be obtained. I think we should point out the most positive examples of providing copyright protection, and here's why. Dear Ministers, it is certain that you also have how reliablely accurate information about the threat to the vital interests of the state when it comes to broadcasting and re-emissioning programs from the territory of the Republic of Serbia, when unfortunately due to the indetermination of the law that is now being corrected, because we must start from the fact that the revision of this law is not enough to come to a new law, because under 50% of the changes are covered, then I must commend that intensity that you have here obviously had, which is that fundamental changes are being made in order to reach the best possible solutions. Practice will show that they are good solutions, whether they are the best, certainly not, because we can always strive for the better. But if we start with court decisions, then there really is everything I said as a quality of the bill. I'll start with a few examples. We have a situation where the author portrayed himself as the author of a creation that implies nothing but collecting quotes. We all know what quotes are. Someone somewhere said something in one medium, something else in another medium, quote as a quote implies an autonomously expressed will on some topic, and now a third has appeared who has all these quotes covered, published in some edition, without knowledge, without the consent of the author of those quotes and most importantly, let's just call them creatures none of the authors participated, whether one or more. The court has absolutely rightly taken the view that it is a grave violation of copyright and passed the law of appeal. It's similar when it comes to photos, if they're published without the name and last name of the author, then literally, if I can be so free to say, it's about stealing copyright. Why am I saying this? Because I want to highlight the very important role of courts in the application of the law, and even the law so far in force that I say was not sufficiently detailed, consistent and in practice opened certain dilemmas, that we now have the opportunity to remove all these dilemmas and solve them properly. This is especially when it comes to co-authors, because we have some specific situations. Let's say, if the film is an author's work, and it is, then we have more authors or coauthors, one is a writer, the other is a director, the third is the one who has a certain role, the producer, ultimately, in the process of producing the author's work or creating the author's work they all enjoy in the same way of protection, from the point of view of this law and from the point of view of what means judicial protection. Since, as I said earlier at the very beginning, and here I will bring to an end my discussion, my colleagues Ivana Dinić and the authorised representative of Prof. Dr. Snezana Bogosavljevic have determined according to your proposal, I will only join it. What you need to know, as always, is that the SPS parliamentary group will, as part of this coalition, support the laws that you propose, a pragmatic and constructive part of this coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-10-0.u60386	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. The word is Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go, colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-10-0.u60387	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Dear Ministers with associates, fellow MPs, the goal of this government is to raise education to a pedestal from which you can see further and from which you can move on to new campaigns, to acquire new knowledge. We've been used to ignorance for years, and we've just enjoyed it. There's a rapper set up so we don't let the knowledge get through. We've come to a paradoxical situation that everyone's convinced they know everything, and often they don't know anything. All five laws that are before us are very related and aim to bring areas already governed by the laws into line with chapters and Serbia's accession negotiations with the European Union, which will apply once Serbia becomes a member. The amendments and additions to the patent laws, copyright and related rights and to the protection of the topography of semi-conductive products introduce more order among those who are users of these laws. The changes will contribute to the greater visibility of those who deal with music and other arts. We are proud of our artists and this is how we protect their rights. There will also be a greater contribution to actors, as the new law provides for them to be owners of their actions, or any broadcasting or re-emissioning of them will provide them with a better material position. Due to the specificity of the field of information technologies, this is where relations to European tradition are determined, and many other domains of software protection are being arranged. We passed the patent law in December 2018 and this has brought much easier application in practice. The benefits are mostly related to the following – inter-legal protection has been improved, the civil protection system has been improved in terms of removing the shortcomings observed in the application of the law, the action can now be filed not only in the event of a violation of the right, but also when there is a serious danger that the right will be violated. In terms of compensation, the very amount of compensation, the negative economic consequences suffered by the damaged party are now being taken, which is also a newspaper. Then additional control of the decision-making of the Institute of Intellectual Property was introduced, which was not the case before. I wanted to simply remind you of everything that was done by this law, and now those things that were missed in the previous period are still in place. So we build on and perfect this law. The amendments to the law have been further aligned with the EU and with its regulation, in particular the Directive on the legal protection of biotechnical inventions and the IPR Directive. The termological harmonisation of different terms was then carried out and information and educational affairs were improved in the fields of legal protection, invention and other intellectual property rights. All these changes are aimed at improving and digitising the register. There's been a general mess so far, and we didn't have any databases. The amendment stipulates that the register of databases that are electronically managed and maintained by the competent authority is thus specified in fact by representatives of any natural person, any legal person who does not have a seat or residence on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. I'd be done with the next sentence. Our President Alexander Vucic, often quoted by many, but this has left me with a very impressive impression, which is the quoting of Anatole France, which proves in fact a picture of Serbia sometimes and now -- education does not consist of how much you remember or how much you know, but how much you are able to distinguish how much you know and how much you don't. Knowledge should guide this country and shape and set goals. That's what we're doing right here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-10-0.u60388	Thank you, Mrs. Jovanovic. The word has a folk MP, Stefan Miladanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-10-0.u60389	Thank you, colleague Marinkovic. Dear Ministers, today's sessions are extremely important laws in law enforcement, intellectual property. Some of these laws we've waited very long, almost a few months, some of the proposals we're discussing today were in the process. I'm going to look back on the essence of all three draft laws for a few minutes. Intellectual property is an extremely important topic for the development of every society and its economic progress. It is the subject of intellectual rights protection and these rights include both copyrights and related copyright rights, as well as the right to industrial property. Amendments to and additions to the Law on patents, copyrights and related rights, as well as to protect the topography of semi-conductive products, are being introduced in order amongst the users of these laws, and amendments are being made to further compliance with EU directives, among other things some of the new Directives have taken effect over the past month and I believe that further harmonisation will be in this direction during the following year. In any case, all solutions will contribute to greater visibility and legal protection of both artists and scientific workers, as well as those of people who deal with specific issues in the field of information technologies, i.e. information technologies. The intellectual property created in the employment relationship affects the increase in the value of businesses, the increase in profits or the creation of savings, and above all through the improvement of the performance they perform, and this further contributes to better economic results of the company itself, but also to the development of the economy in general. In this regard, it was extremely important that these relations between employers and employees in an efficient way so that the employer had an interest in investing in research and development, and the employee was motivated to improve the manufacturing process of the employer himself. This is also very important for the economy, as the existing solution has proved not to be very encouraging for potential investors in Serbia. The adoption of the proposed amendments and the addition of the patent law is expected to increase the number of patent applications by companies, as employers and employees will have legal certainty in relation to their availability, but also the exploitation of patents created in this employment relationship. The further solution increases legal certainty in the protection of intellectual property and reduces risks for those who invest. In this respect, the most significant changes and additions to this law relate to the area of inventions created in this working relationship, both in national companies and in large international companies. The employer can make available to the employed material and technical means and information in order to create an environment in which employees can be creative and to propose new technical solutions that will improve the process of work. When it comes to copyright and related rights, i.e. amendments and additions to this law, the aim is to establish a more efficient national legal protection system for copyright and related rights. This was very fundamentally spoken by my colleague Neđo Jovanovic, I would only add that one of the positive effects of these changes will also be through the improvement of collectively achieving copyright and related rights to extend the duration of protection of property rights of interpreters and phonogram manufacturers and to strengthen civil and legal protection of copyright and related rights. Unlike the copyright created by the creation or materialisation of the copyright, the right of industrial property covers the patent right, the right of trade mark, the right to protect design, the right to protect topography of an integrated car, the right to protect geographical indications and others and, perhaps at least, at least clear as regards the matter regulated by this Law on Topography and Semiconductive Products is applied in the area of IT and implies the protection of industrial property rights in respect of the scope of the right to recognised topography and the person entitled to protection. In order to create and recognise any right in the area of industrial property, a decision by the competent authority in the case of the Republic of Serbia is needed, it is the IPR. Topography by its nature is intellectually good. The subject of protection is only topography, such as chips, integrated circuits, nanotech products, so protection objects are semiconductive products that are used to process information and represent in some cases either a microprocessor or a computer. So, simply put, the Copyright Act regulates the right of those who create software in this case, while the Topography Act of Semiconductive Products regulates something called hardware, i.e. the right to protect topography, has its creator. Encouraging and achieving the protection of this type of industrial property encourages the smooth development of topography of semi-conductive products, which has a direct impact on scientific, technological and overall economic development. I don't have to repeat myself in voting day we'll support all three bill proposals, and I believe that the debate in particular will be very interesting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-10-0.u60390	Thank you, Mrs. Miladanovic. The word has a folk letter, Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-10-0.u60391	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers with Associates, today we have before us and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Patents Act, which I will briefly talk about from the proposed amendments, we can see that the provisions that now regulate the issue of legal protection of finds created in working relationships and are not fully focused on providing security for potential investors to come and invest in our country. It is precisely the norms relating to the area of finds created in working relationships that will suffer the greatest changes by adopting this bill. Therefore, the adoption of this proposal will have a direct impact on all economic operators that create innovation within working relationships, employers will invest more in research, development and employees will contribute to the improvement of the labour process and, on the other hand, receive a fair fee which will also be determined by this law. Economic operators are naturally seeking a higher level of legal certainty when it comes to protecting their intellectual property. This is precisely the goal of adopting this proposal, therefore, of creating a better business environment for foreign investors, but also for domestic economic operators. Also, it will be better to regulate the relationship between employers and employees in the event that employees create a finding in a working relationship, so employees will know their rights and obligations in advance. These first and obligations will be established other than the Labour Act, will also be established by this law. The bill regulates how I said their compensation, and employers on the other hand will stimulate employees but also provide them with the necessary resources, organise the necessary training and so on. We see from these draft laws that are ahead of us that the Serbian government is continuing its efforts to bring our legislation from a high degree of order that will provide security for the economy and economy, but of course it will also result in a better standard for our citizens. In that sense, it should also be said that the British newspaper Financial Times has announced that Serbia is first in the number of foreign investments. In 2018 we attracted as much as 107 projects of foreign direct investment, which is 26 more than in 2017. As the leading sectors, the automotive component industry, food and tobacco, textiles and the real estate sector are listed. That's how we outdone the countries in the region. What's good and what was also in those reports is that we are approaching some far more developed countries, such as Great Britain or Poland or Hungary or even the United Arab Emirates. So on the one hand, you can see that we here from day to day are talking about the results, the results of both Alexander Vukic and the Government of Serbia, the work in this Parliament, but on the other hand you can see both lies and deceptions and vandalism of the Alliance for Serbia's representatives. What kind of message is being sent to Serbian citizens, what message is being sent to the world, what kind of people are we here if I am the president of a municipality in Belgrade Marko Bastic pulls traffic signs or puts on a rye of stuffed dolls and waters them with beer, earns his salary by making performances around Belgrade. I'd like to suggest to you that you consider sitting down at the government, if perhaps we can pass some law on circuses in politics, so that we can regulate Mark Bastac's working relationship. We from the SNS will continue to work and build and be proud of these results. I'm sure the citizens will know they appreciate it. Of course, all the proposals from your ministry will be supported in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-10-0.u60392	Thank you, Mrs. Žarić Kovacevic. Now the word is Andrian Avramov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-10-0.u60393	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, the Honorable fellow MPs. Today, we have before us a bill on amendments and additions to copyright and related rights, actually one of the laws. Copyright is a right enjoyed by the creators of literary, scientific and artistic works, which is primarily given the exclusive right to use and approve other uses of their work, while including a system of protection of these rights. I'd like to commend this law that regulates the rights of the author of the piece. This law protects not the idea, but the work that is the expression of the human mind, regardless of the kind of expression. Copyright and related rights are key to human creation because they provide authors with incentives in the form of recognition and cash compensation, and on the other hand provide them with certain certainty that their works can be promoted without fear of unauthorized copying or piracy, and if they do so, they are provided with copyright protection thanks to the proposal of today's law. These copyrights include scientists, actors, interpreters, authors and producers. This law provides for a positive impact on the economic interests of those individuals. We expect that these amendments will significantly improve the economic position of the actors, which was not the case before, because the actors have so far not had the right to compensation and have been in a worse legal and economic situation. In fact, these amendments to the law create conditions to improve the material position of all who try to contribute to their artistic expression. We expect that the new solution to this law will affect the increased transparency of the work of different organisations, collectively achieving their rights, and their efficiency in the pursuit of the rights of authors. I would point out that by this law we have introduced more quality and stricter supervision by the Institute of Intellectual Property. It is also prescribed a deadline within which organisations must distribute and pay collected money from users on behalf of the fee for the use of copyright works and related rights cases in the previous year. With this bill, we expect that the proposed measure will affect the increased urgency of collective organisations in the cost of compensation, which certainly reflects positively on rightholders. I would like to commend the intensive co-operation of the country of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the Ministry of Education and Technological Development with the Republic of Germany, Denmark, China, Japan and many others. So far, we have done a lot in terms of modernising investment in different areas of education, science and technology. Today we have a large number of schools that have been renovated. The budget for science has been increased, wages have been raised for researchers. In the coming school years, all schools in Serbia will be equipped with small robots and a number of drones intended for learning and learning. I would also highlight the digitisation of 10.00 classrooms that are part of the reform process, which we are actively and daily conducting for the sake of the promotion and adequate education of young people. The entire newspapers that we are introducing and which we are planning in the next period aim to facilitate parents and children's acquisition of adequate and modern knowledge that will enable them to have a future and stay in our Serbia. This bill is proof that our President, Mr. Alexander Vukic, led by the SNS, takes into account everyday problems and talks intensively with people. We don't respond to hate. We don't share people on patriots and not patriots, because we all live in this country and love our Serbia. Those who vote for SNS really see progress and development better and more successful Serbia and, thanks to the visible results, trust our President, Mr. Aleksandr Vukic and the SNS. I can't help but mention all sorts of statements. opposition describing the situation in Serbia as catastrophic, that there is an uncertain future in Serbia, that women are being humiliated daily, that those who think differently are being humiliated, that our children are being insulted, that the signs of demonstrations of their inability are being torn down, that people are being encouraged to hate and aggression, accuse our president of selling Kosovo, you call the traitor the Serbian president, the man with the greatest political weight in Serbia, while our so-called, so-called "Serb President" The opposition, Djilas, Jeremic and Obradovic, are getting money from foreign representatives at the October 6th election in KIM, to run against the Serb list. I am taking the opportunity to call on all Serbs from KIM and displaced persons who have the right to vote to come out and support the Serb list, to keep our Serbs united in the October 6th elections, because because of the different obstacles they are preparing for us this is not life, but a struggle for the survival of our Serb people at KIM. Despite all the obstacles that are happening to us, people after a long time have optimism and believe in change and see that major reforms are widely implemented, we have proven that the deadlines that we have set for ourselves have been fully fulfilled, all we have done so far and what we are planning to do are the bravest moves in Serbia's newest history, we have made a great effort to move out and become orderly and normal, and all thanks to our president, Mr. Alexander Vukic, SNS and trust and support for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-10-0.u60394	Thank you, colleague Avramov. The word is Ljiljana Malusic. Here you go, Mrs. Malusic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-10-0.u60395	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers with co-workers from the Ministry, today we have before us a bill on amendments and additions to the patent law. Education is part of culture, and culture is a way of life. It's nice to be educated, it's nice to be cultured because there's a better chance of a better life. Before we go into law enforcement, I can't help but mention our greatest minds. Serbia is a small country, has 7,022,000 inhabitants and an enormous number of brilliant minds, primarily my favorite, Nikola Tesla. Nikola Tesla is one of the world's most famous inventors and scientists in the field of physics, electrical engineering and radio technology, I guess the whole world knows, should know and rejoice at what we're finally going to do and open a big museum where we can get all his exhibits, everything he's done to see the whole world. Mihajlo Pupin, one of the greatest minds, scientific inventor professional at the University of Colombia, honorary consul Serbia in the United States, gave significant conclusions important for multiple telegraph fields, wireless telegraphs, telephony and so on. Josif Pancic, the creator of the picturesque Botanical Garden, founder of the Geological Institute, as well as the first president of the Serbian Royal Academy. Mihajlo Petrovic Alas, a Serbian mathematician, professor of Belgrade University, his most significant inventions are computer, one of the first analogue, hydrogenerator and many others. Jovan Cvijic. I could do this, and I have to, out of gratitude for these wonderful people, Serbia should promote itself in the world -- here's the way, education for these wonderful people. They call us anyway, it's totally irrelevant. We have brilliant minds. I am proud to live in this beautiful Serbia. Jovan Cvijic dealt with social and physical geography, geomorphology, ethnography, biology alike. Milutin Milankovic, a well-known climatelogist, knows the whole world, known for the theory of the ice age that connects variations of Earth's orbit and long-term climate change. Ruđer Boskovic, Dragoslav Srejovic, Mihajlo Petrovic Alas, Nikola Tepic, I need a few sentences on him. A young genius, being the name of Nikola Tesla, wunderkind, more champions of the World Olympics of young scientists from Belgrade, 40 medals from various parts of the world, and its revolutionary invention -- slowly dissolving the fertilizer from the capsule's device, 18 years ago, the dry genius. Nikola Cwayin, patented five of his inventions. Nikola invented a dusting robot sows on remote control, which means he saves people's lives. Just remember how hard it is to do things like that and poisonous. Next, Stefan Vela, to me very impressively, who invented a patent that saves lives. He invented a patent that captures and breaks the trombones, etc., etc. I have hundreds of these people here, but time doesn't allow me to deal with them, although I had to mention that we're proud to have minds like this. As far as the bill is concerned, the most significant changes and additions to the laws relate to the area of finds created in the working relationship, the patent law. The employer makes available the employed material and technical means, information and thus creates a creative and stimulating space for innovation. The Law on Innovation Activities and the Law on Scientific and Research Activity stipulates who has the right and how to protect the discovery that was created in scientific and research work at universities and universities. The patent law applies only to findings made by economic operators which are not directly financed by the State. The area of protection of finds is governed by the patent law. This proposal for patent laws is more effective in regulating the mutual relations between employers and employees in cases where the finding arises in a working relationship. The proposed amendments and additions to this law are further in line with the Law confirming the Convention on the Recognition of European Patents. The subject of patent protection may be a product, product application process and application of the procedure. A lot of things have been said, I don't want to repeat myself. I am pleased to tell you that, thanks to the Serbian Progressive Party, our President, the Government and you, Mr. Minister, much has been done about education. Keep up the good work. I am proud to be part of this party and I am proud of your work and the work of our president. In voting day, I will support all the proposals of these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-10-0.u60396	Thank you, Mrs. Malusic. Now the word is Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-10-0.u60397	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, fellow MPs and MPs, is the key to every society's success in education. I must say that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that our President Aleksandar Vukic, but also you, Mr Sarcevic, as the minister responsible for the field of education, education, science, and how much they have contributed to the plan of reforming education and adapting education to the needs of students and labour market needs. It's the key to success. Surely there is one key to the success of our society, and the key to success is certainly that young, educated, competent people, full of knowledge, which is applicable in real life, full of skills, etc. soft skills, which concern participation in projects, teamwork, skills related to gaining confidence and self-valuing the quality of what they have learned, can stay and work in this country. I'm going to state one of the laws on the agenda today, which is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the patent law. Why do I want to name this law, amendments and additions to this law? Because I believe that you are working very actively to monitor the implementation of your laws and in this active work, monitoring the implementation of the law, you see all the difficulties that should be removed in order to make the law effective. The patent law is, above all, important in the aspect of which it enables greater legal certainty for investors who come into our country and also for greater legal certainty for inventors. I must say that investors who come to our country come with modern technologies. These aren't outdated technologies, they're modern technologies. Of course, they come with their equipment, with their programs, and of course they're interested in research and development that will increase the value of their companies and, of course, in this way come profits. It is very important that all procedures relating to protection, both to the protection of investors and to the protection of those who are in employment and who, through working relationship, come into a situation to find, or find, which will later be patented. It is very clear that the decadent and clear legal form of this relationship, that there should be no empty steps, and that is precisely what makes it possible, between investors, between inventors. Of course, this law also goes a step forward as far as full legal certainty is concerned -- it also foresees judicial protection, both investors and inventors. In that sense, I believe that this bill, amendments and additions to the law, has reached the greatest possible legal certainty. I must point out that you have used a parallel right here, above all, the right of Germany and Slovenia to point out. And, of course, I'll mention that here the decadent and clearly foreseen situation, one of the fellow MPs mentioned it, when the death of the inventors occurred, that the procedure was then interrupted, but of course, only until the time when the desert procedure was not completed and when the heirs failed to re-apply for the continuation of the procedure. Of course, what I also want to point out is the Science and Technology Park here in Belgrade, which was founded thanks to the government of the Republic of Serbia, which was headed today by President Aleksandar Vukic. Thanks to the city of Belgrade, thanks to the University of Belgrade, thanks to the forward ministry, which today employs 71 companies, which employ over 650 engineers. Such technology parks are also built in Novi Sad, Nis, Kragujevac and Cačka. The plan is to expand this science and technology park to 16,000 square metres and employ about 12,000 engineers in the near future. I would like to highlight one project that has been declared the best idea for 2018 in this science and technology park, which is to make smart gloves for blind and weak-sighted persons, which and how they can improve the quality of their lives, and for which the association, or the Union of Blind Serbs, is interested. What I also want to point out, and the product and the result is, above all, a steel friendship between the Republic of Serbia and the People's Republic of China, and this steel friendship is built on the close relations between President Alexander Vukic and the president of the People's Republic of China Si Gjiping, which is a scientific and industrial park that will be built in Borca by the reputation of the most modern such park in China, in the town of Sudzhou. Now a memorandum has been signed with some 40 Chinese and other world companies who will, of course, come here with their most modern technology. So Serbia will no longer be a brain drain country, but will be a country where young educated people come in and, of course, a country where smart services and products will be produced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-10-0.u60398	Thank you. The word has Milan Ljubic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-10-0.u60399	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected MPs, these amendments and additions are prescribed in which extent topography may be subject to protection, as a result of intellectual work by the creator, conditioning the right to protection, as well as the legitimate right to prohibit third parties from multiplying topography without his authority. Information technologies are recognised by the state as a strategic segment for the development of society and economy. Topography of semi-conductive products has been applied in information technologies. Legal solutions will affect economic operators involved in the production of semi-conductive products, modelling of electric cars, as well as design, making finished printed plates, then, for all natural and legal persons exercising the rights to protect this type of industrial property, in accordance with the law. We are in line with EU legal rules with these solutions. This creates a more uniform legal system on a multi-state level. This is a signal for foreign investors to invest freely in our country and to be able to count on security as well as protection of their rights. Market competition is being stimulated. Legal protection of topography contributes to market development. The application of topography of semi-conductor products is located from home appliances production to state-of-the-art telecommunications equipment. The Republic of Serbia has significant potential to produce these products. Semiconductors form the basis of modern electronics. They represent the market for the future. The structures that represent key technology in today's modern world are the basic components of electrical systems. Tens of billions of dollars are pumped into the market for semi-conductive technologies each year. Today we are at a time of linear growth of the value of this segment of the market, which is significant. This growth guarantees new jobs, new technologies in the semi-conductive industry. So the city of Nis, from which I come, in collaboration with China's giant "Huaway", will be the first smart city. Building a scientific and technological park in Nis, on the surface of 14,000 squares, will create conditions for further development of information and communication technologies and transfer of knowledge as the most valuable product. It's a 10m-euro investment. Thanks to this government and our President Alexander Vukic, Nis is once again the center of regional industry and the city of advanced technologies. In addition to investing in information technology, it is the government's strength to seek to keep our experts in the country, to attract various companies that will invest in research and development, to protect the intellectual work of the creator, to encourage domestic researchers in this area, and to establish a system of production that will enable competition in all fields of this industry. By introducing this technology into work, by investing in raising the quality of education and education of experts in the field, this government is committed to the most modern approach and development of the country. All this is important for Serbia's overall economic development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-10-0.u60400	Thank you. The word is Studenka Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-10-0.u60401	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, the Patents Act regulates the matter of protection of inventions and this law regulates the relationship between the employer and the employee if the finding arises in a working relationship. Since the number of applications submitted for protection of inventions is followed by the Institute of Intellectual Property, we have here data on the number of applications per year, so 191 applications were submitted in 2016, in 2017 173 applications, in 2018 162, with less of the total number of applications made by companies. Just for reasons of legal uncertainty. This change removes this gap, creates a legal framework that regulates and interacts between the employee and the employer in relation to the availability and exploitation of the patents created in the employment relationship. The end result will be an increase in the number of applications by businessmen. The proposed amendments to the patent law concern, first of all, the way in which finding in a working relationship occurs, and Article 60 requires that employees and employers agree on the level and manner of remuneration of an employee, and only if the contract fails, then the criteria prescribed by this law apply. The amendment of this law will directly affect all economic operators that create innovation and invest in research and development, and employees who participate in this will receive compensation leading to the achievement of the general objective. When we talk about amendments to the Law on Copyright and Related Rights, as well as the previous one, the aim is to establish a more efficient legal protection system that will affect the protection of the economic interests of the creators. This is particularly important for the area of culture and all artists who create and create cultural good, whether they are interpreters of music, actors and all others who make creative contributions to society through their creations. There are currently six organisations in Serbia that have permission to collectively exercise copyright and related rights, and of which Sokoj is the longest tradition of existence, and the highest number of members, which are domestic, which are foreign authors. All these six organizations gather and exercise the rights of a large number of authors and authors of copyright and related rights from numerous social groups, such as the authors of music, writers, writers, translators, publishers, music and film producers, photographers, journalistic and television houses, actors, singers, illustrators and others. Therefore, the proposed amendments to this law will affect a large part of our society, and above all it will affect the economic interests of the actors who will be entitled to compensation in the event of the broadcast or re-emission of their films and TV series, which has not been the case so far. From all this, we see that Serbia's progress is becoming more and more sensitive and reaches the minority to all categories of society that SNS is extremely proud of. I want a successful law enforcement and I want to thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-10-0.u60402	Thank you. The word is Olivera Ognjanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-10-0.u60403	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers with associates, this week, among other points on the agenda, we need to adopt amendments and additions to the patent law aimed at establishing a more effective system of protection of inventions, i.e. improving good practice for protection of inventions in Serbia. The addendum also makes it more effective to regulate the relationship between the employee and the employer when the finding occurs in a working relationship, which is necessary when the finding affects the increase in the value of the company, the increase in profits or savings. Nearly 200 new patents are protected in Serbia each year. Innovation is reported by companies and individuals. The most recent findings are in the fields of electrical technology, information technology, agriculture and medicine, and a growing number of patents from younger scientists, which are indicators that science in Serbia is taking the upward path. Of the total number of new technical solutions, 38% are results in this area, 98% of which are already commercialised on the domestic or international market. Biotechnology and agriculture are the most successful regions by the number of patents. Of the total number of patents in technological development projects, 57% belongs to this area. According to the Ministry of Education, science and technological development for 2018, Serbia has improved its scientific and research potential over the past few years. In addition, it says that Serbia participates in the global production of scientific works with 0.3% and ranks 47th on the list of more than 140 countries. Research in Serbia is concentrated in the public sector, universities and 63 accredited institutes. In the first half of last year, according to data from the Republic Statistics Institute, Serbia's total R & D participation in GDP was below 10%, still significantly below the European average. That is why the Science Fund Act, adopted at the end of last year, will play a major role, which provides measures to encourage Serbia's scientific and technological development, as the Fund's main role is to finance scientific and research projects. More effective support for scientific research and the application of their results has been provided for the sake of Serbia's faster social, technological and economic development. There are a large number of scientific and technological parks throughout Serbia. They are aimed at innovative technological developments for companies from different areas. They combine science and nature and provide young experts with the opportunity to place their projects, products and services on the domestic and foreign markets. One of them is the Zvezda Science and Technology Park, which operates with 65 high-tech companies. Also, the Republic of Serbia has been a member of the European Nuclear Research Laboratory CERN for several years and is therefore unique in the region. The headquarters is located near the Swiss town of Geneva and there is a hundred metres underground in a 27km tunnel the largest machine in the world of CERN's particle accelerator, where about 20,000 physicists from around the world are engaged, where our Serbian physicists are also. As regards amendments and additions to the Copyright and Related Rights Act, relations between the copyright holders themselves are regulated and intellectual property rights are improved. The ultimate objective of regulating the right of intellectual property is that the rightholders of these rights have an adequate compensation for exploiting their actions and a balance is created with the interests of the users. In the end, all these positive newspapers are the results of the efforts of the government of the Republic of Serbia and President Aleksandar Vukic, who finds solutions in all fields to improve life quickly in Serbia, to provide citizens and future generations with the basis for a peaceful, safe and decent future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-10-0.u60404	Thank you, colleague Ognjanović. The word is Dr Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-10-0.u60405	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister, with our associates, colleagues and colleagues, we are already at the end of today's discussion of laws on intellectual property and I agree with my colleagues that these are extremely important and high-quality legal proposals, so that I, in my presentation, will briefly remain on the amendments and additions of the patent law. We want to create a better business environment and legal certainty for foreign and domestic economic operators operating in our country's territory by amending and supplementing the patent law. Also, by changing and supplementing the law, I think it will boost and I am sure of this and the invention and innovation that contributes to the development of science and techniques, all in order to improve the quality of life of our citizens. Encouraging invention and innovation will contribute and increase the competitiveness of economic operators both in the country and abroad, by improving their business, marketing and export positions. The amendments to the patent law, as we have already heard from you in the opening presentation and from my colleagues, regulates the relationship between the employer and the employee when the employee creates a finding in a working relationship. This will boost investment in innovative activities that are achieved through the acquisition of protection for finding that has been created in a working relationship on the part of the employer and the promotion of the job for innovation through obtaining fair compensation for it. Employees will be motivated to contribute in a working relationship to the improvement of the work process, as I said they will receive a fair fee for their work, which is also specified in the proposed amendments and additions to this law. On the other hand, the employer will be entitled to the exclusive economic exploitation of find and available by finding if it is protected by patents and thus achieve and increase the profits and assets of businesses. Accordingly, the employer makes available to employees and material and technical means and information and training and all other necessary resources to stimulate their employees by creating an innovative working environment. Creativity is stimulated, and all in the interest of new technical solutions that will improve the process of work or offer a new technical solution to the problem. In the conditions of fierce competition and market saturation, we need more patents from working relationships to encourage innovative processes, as this is a safe way to boost the competitiveness of businesses. Innovation is based on knowledge, but of course on the support of the environment and the state and we are doing it, because we want to improve Serbia, strengthen our economy and economy, and we have been doing it successfully since 2012, when the SNS took over the exercise of power and we will work in the interests of citizens and our Serbia and beyond. In voting day, we will support these bill proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-10-0.u60406	Thank you, Dr Mrdakovic Todorovic. Now the word has Professor Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-10-0.u60407	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr. Minister Sarčević, with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we today have a very important bill, amendments and additions to the patent law. This is a very important matter, not only of those who live on patents, but of society in general, especially for our societies that implement the accelerated process of modernization, and you, Mr. Minister and your ministry, will speed up the process of modernising education, and then you will do very well, as you have done these others. Since my colleagues spoke very highly of this law, I will only be two sentences, which you have already said in the opening part. What is important in this law is the regulation of relations, mutual rights and obligations of employers and employees in the case where employees create employment finds. This is the key to the problem, we haven't had it by now, this law regulates it. Mr. Minister, we are creating order in this area, thank you for that. I know you're gonna get attacked for this, because it gets a lot of people, but you're a fighter, you've suffered a lot of things, so you're gonna get these. In this way, this is important, employees will know when creating and finding a working relationship what his rights and obligations are regarding concrete invention. They didn't know that until now, did they? They didn't know. The employer will stimulate his employees by creating an innovative working environment, putting his resources on the service. That's the point of the problem. Have we had this before? We didn't. Now, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, yesterday my speech at the National Assembly caused controversy, probably yours. I am glad, very glad that the unsigned names of the Lord of Professor 1 of the 5 million from the Faculty of Philosophy have returned, strangely so they do not have a name and name, as I put my names here on the insight not only of the Serbian, but of the European and world public. As for hate speech, all those who know me, professors, students, colleagues, ordinary citizens under quotes, neighbors, it's not within my reach and I have never hated political opponents in my life. It can't be one educational worker, but I'll be very, very sharp to the political opponents who are destroying this country. I'll repeat some things from yesterday and call upon the gentlemen without signing to tell if it's true or not, let them come here, whoever wants us to face attitudes. Now, as for today, Mr. Risticevic spoke about Professor Dr. Danica Popovic. I won't speak, you said very qualified and exactly what Mr. Risticevic said, the process is still in progress, we'll see. What would be the Members of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, if I had done this to my student as a educator? They'd eat me, those who walk, but I never will, I'm fighting for every student as a pedagogist, I'm fighting for them, too, the unfortunates that aren't here. Now that it's a process, I'm not going to comment on this, because I read the N1 CIA portal today. Professor Danica Popovic did not make the textbook's author, but a professor from Italy. She's a translator of the work of that textbook. What would be you who object to my science, gentlemen professors without a name, if I had done it in my textbook, which you will never quote? But some EU countries also quote countries. Now let's take the turn. Now I ask Mr. Professor, whether it's true or not, I won't repeat yesterday's discussion, I think I spoke very affirmatively about Belgrade University and the contribution to European and world science and colleges, but for certain individuals I want to ask them again, let them tell the scientific political public whether it's true, that we understand what you said. Gentlemen, do you want to do politics? In political parties, there is no politics at the university. What if I had said SNS at my university? They'd eat me, but you can't. I have more power than you to fight. You couldn't even when I went to The Hague to defend the state, you won't be able to do it now. Let's move on. Let me just say, after defending Professor Dr. Jovo Bakic for the third time, he became an extraordinary professor, you know when? When he said we'd swim across Savi and Dunawa. Got a reward. Now, let's take the turn. I ask them – whether they believe it or not, but it is true once again, let them say, let it be true that he gave the student a master's degree at the Faculty of Philosophy in Belgrade a theme, ask him to come out and say – the role of Pink and Happy in the creation and reproduction of the cult of the leader and the analysis of the content of the visit of Aleksandr Vukic in the shows "Tough Word" and "Cirilica", finished quote. I ask, Mr. Bakic and his followers – is this a policy mix in teaching? I ask him, let him answer publicly, that's number one. It is the same, I will repeat, if I give my student a theme – the role of the Faculty of Philosophy in Belgrade in the creation and reproduction of cults of ignorance, intellectual proscration and diletarianism, the case for the third time by Professor Jovo Bakic. You resent me when I say this, and you don't blame your colleagues for meddling in politics. I don't do that at my university, and I've never done that, and my fellow professors who work with me know that. But, gentlemen, what do NGOs do? What are you fellow professors doing, you two, why don't you reprimand him? What sociological sources did he recommend to the master, let my colleagues tell me? What historical sources? Which one did he use? Here, I'd like him to say which one he used. Dr Jovo Bakic, for the third time a doctor, is interesting that for the third time the doctor, on 17 January 2014, is careful, in 2014, he said, quoting: "Alexander Vukic is an exterminator of Angela Merkel," finished the quote. Well, you object to me when I, accordingly, say what Jovo Bakic is, and do not object to what he said to the president of the state. Shame on you gentlemen, professors. I know what you're going to say to me, a garbage man isn't what you think, an obedient, and he's not a shithead what you think, a man in love with himself like Jovo Bakic. Look at the dictionary, if we're already playing science, then we'll play. It's the same as I said – the doctor for the third time, Dr. Jovo Bakic, is Bill Clinton, Dragan Gilas and Vuk Jeremic. You object to my hate speech, not to him. What right does he have better than I do? He was in politics, he was in four political parties, they kicked him out. He's full of hate, so look at him. Let's move on. I ask him if it's true or not, this. Is it true that Dr Jovo Bakic, for the third time a doctor, said in June 2019, thinks that no one is watching what he is doing during the summer holidays, so he will not, with me and his colleagues from SNS and gentlemen, competes in work, order and discipline and in scientific papers, we will only come to this. He then called for a break in RTS long pipes. Is it true or not? I ask you gentlemen, "one out of five million," I quote, be careful, they had long pipes, so if you go in there, what are you going to do without long pipes? You go there nicely, and then you point a long pipe in your head and you say, read the prepared text, we just took over, otherwise if you don't have long pipes, and you're in RTS, you didn't do anything if you didn't connect the leading politicians, finished quote 13 June, their paper published in 2019. Gentlemen of "one out of five million", is it true or not, the teachers you call me, is it true or not, come out here, and tell me if it's true, am I telling the truth, am I muddying someone or Dr. Jovo Bakic is muddying someone? For the third time, the doctor, Jovo Bakic, threatens force. So he says, quotes: "Without force, this authority will not go away, because it is a mafia," their June 13th 2019 paper concluded. Is it true, Mr. Bucky, that it was you who said it, only the three of you are behind it, I know who they are? We're going to learn something special. For the third time, Dr Jovo Bakic said on June 13th 2019 that the Serbian parliament is a barn, and MPs are what is in the barn. He says, a quote: "They have made a barn of parliament, not of parliament, from this institution they have made a barn, says, it is a barn, not MPs. Their intellectual level is zero," he completes the quote and adds -- I would like to chase them through the streets, finished the quote. When did someone say that from SNS? Has anyone ever said that? Tell me, gentlemen, "one of the five million" professors you do, do you do politics? For the third time, docent Jovo Bakic daily, without any shame, shamelessly muddled by the president of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandr Vukic. Thus, on March 19, 2019, he gave an awful lie, quoting: “Vučić has friends who trade drugs and he is setting up government jobs for them. ” Shame on him, did he ever tell Haradinaj who did it? Of course not. Did Thaci ever say that? Of course not. The doctor for the third time doctor, Jovo Bakic, daily humiliates women. Look, dear ladies of Serbia, he said on 30 March 2018, quote: "The problem facing the unions is feminisation," a quote concluded. Is that a university professor? Is that hate speech? Am I talking or is he saying it? Let's move on. For the third time, Doctor Jovo Bakic called for armed forces, armed forces and blood spills. He said, quote: "The armed force is the only way to shift power, and the key question is to make as little blood as possible," a quote concluded, their July 18th, gentlemen, 2019. Respected Serbian citizens, so he did it in 2000, so he came to the university, so they came to power because they did not win the elections, because the second round of elections was not even there and it was the biggest blow of parliamentaryism, one of the two biggest hits in Serbia's newest history. Let's move on. The doctor, for the third time, didcent Jovo Bakic, one of the protesters, invited all street councilmen to occupy the RTS building with long pipes. Imagine what it says in "The Imprint of the Week", I quote: "The victory of the opposition will be when the representatives of the authorities swim in the Danube and Sava," a quote concluded. Who calls for hate and murder? Well, does he know who was swimming in the Danube and Savi? Cartels full of children's heads, which read "Walk for John's Market in Belgrade". Shame on you, Jovo Granny. Remember, Jovo Bakic, Stojan Novakovic, wonderfully remembered Radovan Samardzic, wonderful historians, patriots, and many others, Milan Budimir, who worked at this respected university. Let us move on, the DOS also organised Goran Markovic, in a people called "bumbar", believe it or not, and he said on 4 July 2019 that Aleksandar Vukic, quote: "primitive personality, and the crowd is its natural environment", finished quote. Shame on you, Professor. Did I ever tell you that you're mobs? But I will always quote you what you're doing against the institutions of the system in this country. The same one, Goran Markovic, called "bumbar", said on August 30th 2019, "Our authority is terrorist, and the election is organised by a group of bandits," a quote concluded. Who spreads hate speech? Who calls who a terrorist? Am I, Goran Markovic, a terrorist? Goran Markovic, did you ever say that to Thaci? Have you ever told Haradinaj? Did you ever tell Franji Tudjman, who expelled 500,000 Serbs from Croatia? Of course you didn't. Let's move on. I recommend to the so-called director, it is precisely signed so that all of the said abominations about Alexander Vukic and the SNS gather, frame and place on the wall of his living room, and that he daily reminds himself of his highest artistic range and the high degree of his personal culture. Gentlemen, this is how we're going to fight, with authentic documents. Let them say this isn't true. Every morning when he wakes up, wakes up, washes, looks in the mirror, he will see a beady beetle, full of hatred for Serbs and President Vukic, who has been lying in it for the past 20 years. I'm afraid, respected citizens and fellow professors, when he learns that Alexander Vukic and his president, and he claims that he is not, which I never said my president was not Boris Tadic, that hate in him will explode and destroy him himself. God help him. Professor Dr. Rada Trajkovic, who is being defended today, Professor Rada Trajkovic, and they tell me I'm lying, she's lying. Is it true that Professor Rada Trajkovic lied that Republika Srpska had inserted a group of people to pressure Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija to vote for the Serb list? That's what she said on September 7, 2019. Is it true or not, you defending her, did Thaci ever say that? Of course not. Let's move on. Be careful, the university professor says, I quote, "The greatest evil that has hit us has come from the Serbian state, its own president and Serbs," a quote concluded. Is it true, gentlemen, "One of the Five Million" and Mrs. Trajkovic, that you said that? You can be ashamed of yourself. This is what no professor in the history of the university has said, therefore, to his own state and his own people. So she tells Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, "It's not the Cypriot terrorists, it's Serbia." I can't believe that's what the university professor is saying. Why is it pushing open to abolishing the proposal for a compromise solution on Kosovo and Metohija between Belgrade and Pristina? You know why, esteemed citizens? Well, she's totally for independent Kosovo, so you can see her statements. Right, university professors? Of course it is. Professor Dr. Rada Trajkovic advocates that the whole of Kosovo and Metohija be a Cypriot state. She accused the president of burning down the U.S. embassy. Never, in Serbia's history, lies have been told as she said, even if it is in the heat of political struggle. Is that right, gentlemen, "One of the Five Million," or isn't it? She didn't believe Serbs when they spoke of the "yellow house" and drug trafficking and kidnapped Serbs. Is it true she never talked about it? She never worried that the Cypriot authorities held Oliver Ivanovic in prison. Has she ever answered? What does that tell you, respected citizens of Serbia and respected MPs? Is it true that Rada Trajkovic, a doctor professor, in 2016, asked Kouchner, the minister of the then foreign affairs of France, about the trafficking of Serb authorities? He is asked by journalists whether he is involved, with Rada Trajkovic's presence, whether or not he is. He answered, and I quote, "Don't believe what it says. What does it mean that me and Rada were taking bodies to steal organs? "Her friend Kouchner was, we know very well, her friend Kouchner was. This Kouchner was among 17 generals before the Serbian bombing, who agreed that all nurses and our doctors are transporting to Albania and there is no return. Do you want me to tell her the date when it happened and where it happened? Shame on her! Let's move on. What did Rada Trajkovic say about our cobras? She called it the ugliest words, I quote, "The one in front of the Serbian presidency is just some of the tits that make a fool of themselves for the dictator's sake in the downhill," the quote, August 19, 2019, concluded. Now, my dear professor, remember Stojan Novakovic, remember Radovan Samardzic, a wonderful professor and patriot, remember the seven professors of Belgrade University who gave their lives in World War I, 35% of students went to World War I. And you know why, gentlemen professors, you who criticize me for science, and you should know that? Because they grew in textbooks love for their people and country and that's why we won World War I. In 1903, we are already going to learn that Serbs came from Slovenia, until then it was the other way around, and until then it was said that there was one Serb people with three faiths. Then they know very well about it. On August 17, 2019, the Cobras were just doing their job. I repeat, Mrs. Rada Trajkovic has a daughter, and she didn't think about her when she insulted the Kobri members. How would you feel about Professor Rada Trajkovic calling her daughter "a boob" while she's just doing her job? Here, let him answer that. And Rada Trajkovic has never, ever offended members of the Cypriot police. Isn't that right, gentlemen "one of five million"? Please quote me one piece of information whether it's true or not. Now let's move on. They objected to me for scientific work. It's very hard for me to talk about myself, I've never done it in my life, those who know me say it. But, gentlemen, in the Encyclopaedia of Yugoslavia, 1986, Volume IV, for the first time in my life, my book of one work stands. And yours, gentlemen, if I had told you 25 years ago, I wouldn't have stayed alive. You've destroyed everything worth this country. Professors dear and Professor Stojanović, I really ask you to act like real historians. Today, the Evening News released a report on Ban Kulin's Charter. Where are you, gentlemen professors, to defend this charter? So how will you defend when you don't know Latin, one big part? Do you know Latin paleography? Of course you don't know. Can you read the Beneventana? You don't know, most of them. Do you know the union, the seminary, do you know the visigotte? Well, you don't know, when you talk about science. And in my textbook is whose charter it is, in Cyrillic, but also in Latin, though, from the 13th century. Well, that's what the Croats say is true. For example, a Serb published, and a Catholic, Tadija Smiciklas, "Codec diplomaticus regni Hrvatska, Dalmatiae et Slavoniae", book number 2. In 1904, on page 237, the writer says - in a Cyrillic letter, and imagine what the professor from Croatia says, the greatest diplomat, no, a diplomat, but a diplomat, that is the science of the charters, says – there is no forged Cyrillic charter, completed quote, Prof. Dr. Stjepan Antoljak, an auxiliary historical science. Do you gentlemen know that, professors? And don't defend today's charter of Cyrillic. Where's your patriotism, where's your knowledge, where's your science? Next, not to talk about myself, just to let you know. You don't have textbooks in your class, say how many of you are from history, and now I'm telling you, my textbook is done in four countries, even in the EU, I never told you that. You'll never quote this charter. That hatred you've been growing, which I've been looking at between me for 20 years, will destroy us. Thus, respected ministers, and this Mrs. Danica Popovic destroys Jaksic with an average of 10. Did she propagate any democracy? Well, if I were to tell my student, where would I end up? Well, there you are, Mrs. Popovic, and the student has the right to an opinion, and it's yours to distract him, and he can stay until the end in his opinion. It was solved even in the communist order, let alone now, and what it is muddying, Mr. Minister, power, let you, the president of the state, gather into your scientific papers and remind yourself of the level of scientific culture. About that later. As for the Thompson list, it's true he's got two jobs. That's more Mr. Minister than 27 professors of one university of all historians. I'm happy to have contributed to my country a little bit on that list, if each professor were two, we'd be champions. Exactly the mathematician said well – many we do and we black out, the money was raised by others, no more free money, you'll have to gentlemen, not projects to write, but papers to publish, and not me to you, you system to me, but the world and Europe to assess. Two guys came to RTS the other day, so it's a shame. The elementary school students could answer, the journalist was ashamed. What teachings do they speak of, those who stand, what won't say their name? What science are they talking about? I know what hurts them in my textbook, they'll never write it, because they don't know what heraldics is, they don't know what negatism is, what Latin paleography is, what Slavic paleography is, what mass doesn't know them. What's a Beneventana? They don't know that. They're in pain, Mr. Minister, because I've dedicated myself to Hague prisoners, Serbian martyrs with pictures, and I'll never be ashamed of it. Happy that those who don't like the state give me the strength to be stronger than them 100 times, to explore even deeper for the interests of my people and my country, and there is no force to buy me. That I'm someone's creep, you who know me, you know, very well, they're a suck-up to Bill Clinton, the foreign element, I wasn't meeting at the Chapanese pub to tear down the president of the state and Kosovo and Metohija, they were. What science are they talking about, Jovo Bakic? Well, I'm ashamed of my students going there. It is a hater of everything that stands, or Goran Markovic has been speaking against Serbs for 20 years. Dear Minister, I'll finish with a quote by Nikola Tesla. On June 1st and 2nd, Mr. 1892, on the second day of his visit to Belgrade, he told the students, and I quote, as you know and hear, I remained a Serb and across the sea, where I do research, and so should you be, and by your knowledge and work, raising the glory of Serbia in the world. It's a finished quote. Gentlemen, that's what you should be doing. According to my textbook, it's working in neighboring countries, even in countries I can't come to, and you hide it from students. There's no science like that. I want to compete with you. In politics, in political breaks, in science, in scientific journals. Well, but, wise Teodorovic, academic, a great escapeer, not the headmasters. Why the concussion? You saw, because when you mention the president of the state, out of hatred, so I don't do it, but he does it, that wise Theodoric, about four, five parties have changed and now no one will. Imagine that he runs the Education Committee, as he is a pedagogogist, and was in that tribune, and he did not react. Is that democracy the one he brought in from America, and he ran away when the bombing was our country. You escaped to Dushana Todorovic in America, finished your job and came back, and we defended this country. Is that how Nikola Tesla did it? Could I have escaped from this country, not to go to Pristina University and never missed class, let the deans say. Am I late here? You must come here and fight with us, gentlemen of opposition in the work, okay, discipline and love for students and for our children. The goal is not to destroy, as you do, but to help, to draw out every student and open your eyes to him. What's that teacher who keeps 400 out of one class and only let go of one, who the hell is she? Is that what a pedagogue does? Any streetman can do that. Here, honourable MPs, I've got so much power and energy today when I can answer only partially, but I still won't, I'll leave something for another time. Let them read what I said yesterday and I will end up with this, teach the child a number, put letters in words, read and write, delete, understand, know, only a small part of what the teacher really is, Mr. Bakic, Mrs. Stojanović. My college colleague, who you're going to, you're raising a rebellion down there, Mr Oliver Toskovic, I'm not deliberately saying what the teacher is doing, because being a teacher is not a job, being a teacher is a feeling, being a teacher is a skill, being a teacher is just being a teacher, and you're not that, gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-10-0.u60408	Thank you, Professor Atlagic. Now the word is Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-10-0.u60409	Thanks again. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, at the very end of today's principle debate, I wanted to thank everyone who spoke today, who showed interest in the laws that we all talked about together here and those who had a word of criticism, why not. I guess it should be common interest to do what's best, and if that means that there's something going on, why not, but above all, to all those who have shown a desire to see this or that this will, in particular, be looking at together these minutes in a delayed transmission. They understand why these bill proposals are important and how much they really are on the right track for everything we all do together. All together as a society there is also a certain contribution to us who live in this room. Yes, as an example, works through laws concerning patents or semi-conductive products, we further motivate all those who would deal with top research in Serbia, who would deal with the best, best quality scientific and research work for commercial purposes, which means the best money, the most attractive jobs and the best receipts, is often talked about here. So today in Serbia there is also extra room for it to be more, there is also. How do we secure it? Well, among other things, by providing certain protection of rights, we give motivation to people who would give such jobs, that kind of research additionally financially support, to feel safer and to say, yes, in Serbia there is an additional space for it. Yes, in Serbia, my capital for this kind of activity is safe, I want to invest there so that we have as many examples as possible like this MTU we talked about yesterday and today and all sorts of others. To ensure that we have as much and more good results in our budget as we do today. That we have everything we've talked about today and these top-notch investments, that we're world records in them. That we have this credit rating as this Nudis agency has given us these days. That the investment rating in Serbia is such that whoever looks at the indicators says – well, it's the right place for me and my capital, it's the right place for a good business and for top-notch research. And that, of course, it's completely in the spirit of what we've been saying in this room for years, what we've been doing together for years. That the most qualitative possible education fresh to act together with science and research and on the other hand with economy. That's how we achieve the right effect, and that's how we provide both these factories and these production plants that we have today and all those that we motivate, to come to Serbia tomorrow and hundreds of thousands of new jobs that we have today, and God of health, to make them so much more for our children, for our children's children. And that, as we can today, we can finance everything we've always needed, and sometimes we couldn't imagine, among other things, those pathways that dreamt of generations: the Milos highway the great, which today is reality, the southern arms of Corridor H which is reality and the east that we'll see together as much as in a month or two of today. The last 12.3 km ends now as we talk about this. It's fantastic stuff, and it's not just about who's bringing the job, it's about who's doing the job. It's about who's creating it here. And it's not only about the company, it's about the company, it's about the company, it's about every man, no matter what, it's about the individual. I'm talking about education, the things we've already done, because we wanted to show care for every man, to give every young man more perspective than he ever had. And when we introduced dual education programmes, at the level of high school education, we said then, you'll see the effects. Today we say - see, these effects exist. Seven thousand young people who are in these programs today, 75 to 90% of them find jobs thanks to these programs. It's an extraordinary thing. This MTU, which is the highlight of technology when we talk about aviation, about engines for this kind of means of transport, said – I come to Serbia just because you have such a good dual education program, just because you have a high-quality frame, just because it's so good that we can compare it to that system that we understand, which is a German model of dual education. They know him, they use him well, and they recognize him equally well, equally well, in Serbia. That's why they came. How much is that potentially good? That's precious. From 400 to 500 jobs, we only speak at the level of that one company in the first step. That's how they started their own time in Poland. Where did they come from in Poland today? Up to 28 thousand such jobs. Imagine only a part of it being realized in Serbia, how important it would be and how important it is, which is now that we, at this very session, talked about yesterday, want to introduce it at the level of higher education. These are fantastic things and we show understanding of every need for a young man in Serbia today and his perspective tomorrow. We're introducing this, Mr. Minister, you know it better, among other things, through a brand-new, modern program at the postgraduate level, through four, I think, a brand-new program at the master's level. That's what 13 state universities are involved in. It's about programs like the 4.0 industry for engineering colleges, advanced digital technologies for electrical and electronic universities. So, all that's best, most modern, at the world level today, we want our young people to learn, to master, to be good at it, to be top-of-the-line, like in all these things they're learning today. And to compete with the rest of the world and win. After all, such a concern for every man, for an individual, gives the highest results. And this Google we talked about today on several occasions, it didn't come up as an idea in the labs of large companies. He was created as a personal project of two graduates at Stanford. That's the kind of space we provide for people in Serbia. Then such great deeds and such great results can be expected. That is how they are treated by those who indeed care for them. He gives them a chance, he offers them perspective. He gives them everything they need to show as much as they can. It's quite the opposite of working with these young people, actually working against these young people by using them politically, and there you are, Mr. Atlagic, absolutely right. It is unforgivable, it is a sin to abuse a young man for personal political ambitions, to bring politics into the amphitheater and classroom. And he's right and he's brave and it's a great honor for Mark Atlagic when he points out that. And those who spread trees and stones upon it today, because of what it indicates, they should be ashamed. When they say he insulted Marko Atlagic Jovo Bakic and these others, and what? What did he do? By taking their words, their own words? This is how he showed them and told them – imagine what you said, with the desire to insult Alexander Wolfich, to have someone tell you, how would you feel? He delivered their words back to them, and returned their words to them, and said, "He has offended someone." You can't insult someone by showing them the mirror, and that's what Marko Atlagic did. And let him do it, everything's right. Everything he told them, they said it themselves, everything he showed them, they created it themselves. He only gave them a chance to look at it a little, and he never told a single lie about Rada Trajkovic or anyone else. You know, if we're going to talk about what's a lie and what's true, these Gilas, Obradovici and the others, who killed themselves today to explain to the whole world that they're not, like, going to the elections organised by Pristina. Rada Trajkovic, to remind you, is the leader of the Alliance for Kosovo which they organised. At the same time, it does not wait for these to finish their press conference, tell how it goes to the elections, gathers people and, of course, wants to deal with the Serb list. Now, whoever's lying here, they're gonna have to deal with each other. But if they'd ever been against Haradinaj, Thaci, Kadry Happy, they'd never been. And there's Mr. Atlagic right. They even urged those Gilassov, "One of the Five Million" in the recent local elections, they lobbyed for voting for the non-Serbian list candidate or any Serb, but for candidate Kadri Vesenji. And who are we talking about and what are we talking about? If these things bother you, it bothers you to do what you yourself have done, it bothers you to do what you have done, and also your sin, to hear once again, that you have committed to the young people in Serbia who you abuse, who you bully and drive to enter the presidency, that your accounts and your grosses are breaking fences and conflicting with the police. And then, where are you? You're nowhere to be found. You hide behind people like that. You don't care about their fate, you don't care about their future, you're interested all the time in what you can't deny - 619 million euros in company accounts for eight years you've spent performing the most responsible functions in the state. That's all you've ever been interested in. Those who, through the solutions we are talking about today, provide these young people, which are Alexander Vukic, SNS, the parliamentary majority, but everyone who participates in this joint business, care for Serbia and its future. Serbia needs to know, there is no need to worry, nor to fear, because of this small group of aggressive ones, who are used to abuse everyone and everyone, and that they only think about themselves and their own pocket. There is no danger for the citizens of Serbia, nor from Djilas, nor from Jeremic, nor from Obradovic, while the people wonder. And that the people in Serbia will wonder, we are guaranteed, Alexander Vucic is guaranteed, the SNS is guaranteed, all people who participate in the efforts to make Serbia better and more successful than it has ever been. As you've heard, while we're here, otherwise in Serbia will not be. No one but the people will choose the future of this country and that is the safest guarantee that this country's future will be bright. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-10-0.u60410	Thank you, Dr. Orlic. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of the Joint Chief Search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? (No) Nobody wants a word. I will now give the word to Minister Sarčević for a short while. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-10-0.u60411	Dear fellow Members of the People, I will only say a few sentences to thank all those who participated in today's and yesterday's debate. Of course, most credit is given to the people of the Institute of Intellectual Property who went to all the trouble, who did the job, who are in the larger part someone who belongs to our ministry. While we were talking about this, I've been getting the support of many students, just following this transmission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-10-0.u60412	I thank you, Minister Sarčević. I am concluding a joint principled search on the motions of the law in points. 3, 4th and 5th agenda. I would like to inform you that we will continue our work on September 12th, so Thursday at 10:00 p.m. I thank you all for your participation in the work. Thank you.
