ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67533	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the work of the 9th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 57 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 88 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. we have the necessary quorum and that we can continue to work. In a few moments we will continue to work and move on to a search in detail on the 2nd item of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE LAWS ON EDUCATIONS. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly will inform you that today's session will be attended by Finance Minister Sinisha Mali, with his associates. You have received amendments submitted by the MPs: Aleksandra Belačić, Natasa Sp. Jovanovic, Aleksandar Seselj, Milorad Mirčić, Petar Jojic, Vjerica Radeta, Nikola Savic, Nemanja Sarovic and Marijan Risticevic. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Good afternoon and welcome, Minister Mali. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Belačić. Alexander Markovic called, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67534	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today is the 354th day that MPs of the opposition do not come to work, and for which they receive their salary neatly and thus show their relationship to the function they perform, their relationship with the National Assembly, as well as their relationship with the citizens of Serbia. Mr. Chairman, a text appeared in public in a daily newspaper, which you cannot say is favored by the SNS, neither by the Serbian government nor by the ruling majority, but rather by detailing the continuation of Bastac's machinations, the whole set and the whole scheme of how Bastac's criminal organisation works in the Old Town municipality. I'll remind the public that this same Bastac was charged by the married godfather, that he had been kidnapped, held for hours, practically all night in his office, put a bag on his head, beat him, bullied him, and asked him for a racket. And all this because the married godfather, then a official in the Old Town municipality, didn't bring him an envelope with money, which was the result of agreements and corrupt works, the money that came into existence, or that came out of corruption over illegal construction. Now we have a continuation of this whole affair. Two witnesses appeared, and the two witnesses claimed, it was a responsible person at the Human District association, and I do not want to mention the name and last name, and the founder of the same association of citizens of the Magic Arms, who have claimed that for many years the businessmen had been talking to the Municipality of Old Town in order to do some work. After that, Bastac's people would say that the key condition is to deposit money at the expense of the Magic Hands Association. Then the founder of the Magic Hands association would remove the money from the account and take it to the hands of Bastac's associates. So the Human District was paid 1,600,000 out of the municipality's budget, and then the money was justified by fictitious accounts. Out of the total amount 1.100,000 is justified by some fictitious accounts, while the rest is not even justified. At that moment, Lazar Lesnjak, the same Lazar Lesnjak, who received alarming status, who reported the whole case, so at that time Lazar Lesnjak was the chairman of the commission in charge of the allocation and control of the funds spent. Then, I don't want to mention the name, but one of the above confirms that between 30 and 50% of the funds paid was returned directly to him. So, this is a confirmation, practically, of all the accusations that Bastace's godfather, Lazar Lesnjak, the alarmer, is a real alarmer, so on that false alarmer that he got the other day, let me say, a release from house arrest, and now some of them exude and make a Spanish series, rather than a real alarmer who made the most monstrous accusations about a criminal organization operating in the Old Town municipality, whose head is Marko Bastac. For the very end, Chairman, I have a question for a single parliamentary group, what else is it necessary for Bastac to do, would they not finally leave the authorities in the criminalised Old Town municipality? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67535	Thank you, colleague Markovic. The People's MP, Natasha Sp, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Jovanovic. Here you go, Mrs. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67536	We need to talk about serious things here. Now that anyone's going to use their time, it's broad and we have nothing against it, it's a democratic right. Here, above all, this law applies to our IT sector, to young experts and to those who are next hit by this government, because the solutions to the way they are taxed that will take effect on 1 January 2020 are not on the long track of good. You let those 60% reliefs, 70%, Mr. Minister, get those young professional people back into the country and prevent them from leaving. We cannot create our economic policy, nor in this domain, on the principle of all that is applied in EU countries, because there is no good solution for this particular area when you look at it. Why would you give some young man who today, here, is going to go to the Agency for Business Registers to register an entrepreneurial agency for the production of software programs to prohibit him from being on an unlimited scale or with as many clients as he thinks it is necessary, making contracts that he's going to implement a project? Why would this be a problem for the state, and some special conditions are introduced, and you create legal uncertainty, through some kind of a test of independence that they need to pass? You gave, and you boast, in Novi Sad, above all, in some other cities, huge subsidies for the foreign IT sector, and on the other hand, our young people and experts manage themselves. Of course, that's not a problem for them, because they are often hired by big companies in the world, knowing that that's exactly what they often lack in their countries, because that knowledge that our engineers have and the experts in this area are far, far more than all the other ones that are educated at some other universities.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67537	Thank you, Mrs. Jovanovic. The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Jelena Žarić Kovacevic reported after this amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67538	Thank you, Chairman. Here, we often mention MPs who boycott the work of parliament at sessions. What did I think of today? It was December 2016, if you remember, we had one amendment about Santa Claus, I guess the holiday mood affects people differently. And I don't know how at first I didn't really realize how much these MPs really took their job. Then we witnessed the formation of that unfortunate SZS, when the leaders of the failed opposition represented the SZS as the strongest opponent of the SNS. In addition to not showing any political seriousness, no idea, no programme, this has led us to remember and remind us of what some of the leaders of the SZS were doing while exercising power, and part of it refers, of course, to the functioning of the city's enterprises in Belgrade at the time of the government of Dragan Gilas as mayor. Then we come up with data that, for example, in 2019, the revenues of city enterprises increased by almost 30% compared to 2013. In 2013, the loss of public enterprises amounted to 495m dinars, and in this year, their profits amounted to 4.8 billion dinars, which means that in five years city losses reached 220m euros. Another proof that public enterprises are now doing better is the fact that there are now five times more investments than in 2013. Also, there is also information that at that time the Ministry of Finance has repeatedly warned the city's Gilas authority of re-deposit, which they of course did not pay attention to. Today, although the opposition are no different, they just have no way of destroying public finances in this way, but instead, they do damage by breaking down fences in the squares, tearing down traffic signs, repainting buildings and so on, and all of them paying again for the citizens of Belgrade and Serbian citizens. By contrast, the Serbian government, led by the SNS, has kept all the values of our country and through these proposals of the laws I am discussing today in particular, is trying to continue to fix both business and economic environment and state of public finances and all other areas that are important for Serbia's development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67539	Thank you, Mrs. Žarić Kovacevic. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The amendment was submitted to the 6th Amendment by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67540	We have proposed to delete this member, as well as all the members of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Business Society, because this proposal and in any day of the law nothing will happen to employees, because it is more than obvious that these laws are setting up business for some IT experts. Here, in the very explanation you wrote that the Information Technology and Entrepreneurship Team in the Office for the Implementation of Strategic Projects of the cabinets of the Prime Minister of the Government launched an initiative to amend this law, with the aim of finding a model of remuneration for employees, management and third parties, investors, consultants and the like in a limited-responsibility society. In this regard, you say -- the bill proposes the introduction of a new financial instrument, the right to acquire a share that issues a limited liability society and a reserved own share, as a new legal institute for the purpose of issuing this financial instrument. So, what we've been saying since the beginning, since your oath of information technologies as a basis for Serbia's development, we've claimed that it's not possible, we have nothing against, we have nothing against any progress, but it's increasingly obvious that a single firm in Serbia is dealing with this so far in local self-governments, now you translate them nicely into business societies, and yet with the possibility of becoming shareholders. So we're opposed to that kind of thing. You, if you wanted, and this team of Prime Ministers, would have been better off if they had moved and figured out how to explain to companies that they had to find ways, so if they needed to help the state, by reducing contributions, to increase the lowest wages in Serbia to 37,000 dinars, to monitor the consumer basket. Of course, the consequences would be at least 37,000 dinar pensions, too, to monitor a 37,000 dinar consumer basket. But you're not interested in it, you're not interested in starving more than two million people in Serbia, you're interested in how well it is to have one IT expert, under quotes, who has already occupied more than half of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67541	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. Nejko Jovanovic responded after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67542	I thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, as regards the amendment that the distinguished colleague Radeta has submitted and has now explained, there are some facts that can be accepted in terms of affirmation of something that we will continue to do together. But there are also some facts that I won't be able to agree on, so I'll explain why. First of all, the Institute of its own reserved stake is a new Institute of Business Society Law and, as such in any case, represents a kind of qualitative shift when it comes to a provision in a law relating to the protection of employees' rights. It is not the classic protection of employees' rights that is a certain right that employees can exercise when conditions are obtained by law. In the case of the legal nature of its own or reserved share, it is created by the owner or member of the company providing its share without a burden on the company, i.e. the company, and on the basis of the company’s acquisition of its share, the company provides the employee in such a way as to enable him to acquire a share in society as some kind of action or any other right to participate in the management of the company, while also the right to collect his share when conditions are obtained by law, i.e. at a specific time and in a certain way. You're ministers, as a promoter here, well standardized the bill, and when it comes to judicial protection of your own reserved stake. What's the problem here where you can possibly accept this criticism we've heard, but at the same time say that this government will continue the path that provides for the practical application of this law in the best effect, i.e. in the highest capacity. Why am I saying this? If we have a company that is not in the area of IT technology and if it is a single-member company and if it owns that company, that company has a small number of employees it is not motivated, it is not stimulated to provide its own spare share. He is motivated and stimulated only to maintain corporate insolvency, to maintain the company in the sense that it does not go into a blockade, to keep the company in such a way that it pays off profits and that it earns at the level of most, unfortunately, minimum earnings, to pay for pension disability insurance contributions, but all of which I am not sure is that there is motivation and stimulation for those who are members, i.e. owners of the company. Why am I saying this? Well, because the economic environment in the Republic of Serbia is still not at that level that we have companies that are far above the so-called minimum degree of insolvency that are with a large number of employees and where employees are really provided with the possibility of earning profits in a significantly larger scale or amount compared to what employees in the economy of the Republic of Serbia have today. What's our goal? Our goal is to create an economic environment where under one, companies will have a far greater number of employees. Two, where employees will undoubtedly have much greater profits. Under three, where the employer, i.e. the owner of a company, will be stimulated and motivated to provide its own spare share, and on the other hand that employees will also be motivated and stimulated to obtain benefits based on their own reserved share, and one of the basic benefits is the right to manage the company by obtaining their own share, i.e. by increasing the percentage of their own share in relation to the current current current current or current company law, and thus we have the motivation of both business owners and employees to participate in the realisation of their own share as provided for by this law. I hope that this economic development, this economic growth, will reach relatively quickly, that at least we will approach those countries, developed countries of the European Union, of course the whole world where otherwise this own reserved share in another model, in another form already exists, because this law is actually something that is a comparative solution to the solutions that we have in European Union legislation. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Serbia has a good direction and this direction implies that this law will live in full capacity once we reach this level of economic growth. I'm sure of it, and we don't have a problem here. Now whether criticism will be linked to the fact that IT technology companies are somehow in a privileged position because they allow for a larger number of employees, have the possibility of paying higher profits, while other companies are in a more unfavourable position because of their status, because of the position of employees, because of the ability to earn income and because of the demotive nature of the company's owners to provide their own spare share. It's a question that can be answered the way in that area of criticism that's been revealed, truly factual and well-founded. There's really nothing I can object to. But I know how to support you in the bill. I believe that this own reserved stake because it is defined, normised to protect employees' interests should remain. Is he perhaps brought in early? Well, it's not. In any case, during some period of time, the validity of this law and the improvement of this law will have its own realisation, give its effect and hope that both employees and employers will feel better than they have so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67543	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. Right on the line, The Witch of Radeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67544	A lot of it is true that a colleague took out a bar in this theoretical part, but when it comes to what's concrete, then we can't agree. He wondered if this law was premature? Not that he's premature, but he's too early. It's really amazing except for this one IT company that's still going to be applied to. Who are these members of a company who can provide the reserved funds in that company. Who? Based on what? Based on a minimumer of 27,022 dinars. This is just amazing. He says a colleague, that this law will stimulate that conditions should be created to stimulate both employees and employers and so on. Well, there are only employers in Serbia and how the especially stimulated representatives of foreign companies that are opening plants here and who receive up to 12,000 euros for each job. Well, where do you want bigger and better stimulation? Employees of such people work guaranteed minimum wage at this time of 27,022 dinars, and it would have to be at least 37,000 dinars to cover a minimum consumer basket. But of course you don't care about the largest number of people in Serbia. You now aim, Prime Minister, obviously above all and her team, to get this IT company as well as possible into as many companies as possible. After they finished work on local self-government. Since they're in various business types of Kargo and those who run line transport and buses and there's all kinds of things, there's only this law to settle but only where it suits them, really nice.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67545	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. Neđa Jovanovic, first on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67546	Thank you. In one part, we cannot agree, given that the economy of the Republic of Serbia should, in any case, be allowed to grow, develop, revitalise. Given that it is also part of the economy of the Republic of Serbia, and this is one significant segment of IT technology where Serbia expects much in view of two facts that no one will doubt. First, if it is necessary to employ a significant number in this area, let's say highly qualified persons, therefore, IT experts, not to say IT tech, on the one hand. On the other hand, that this is a day - to - day area that is being improved, that is going forwards daily and where daily everything that involves professional training, progress in science and so on is necessary. Especially when it comes to IT technology. If this is a perspective, which is a perspective, not only of Serbia but of much more developed countries than of Serbia, then it is good to start with the application of a non-existent institute in that segment. And it is good that this segment of the economy will be like some kind of pilot project that will show, which will in some way represent a kind of picture of how any of the employers, any company currently located as an active company on the business scene, should behave so as to call it the Republic of Serbia. So we can't say in any case that it's not inapplicable anywhere. Well, it's applicable. I will fully agree with my esteemed colleague, Radet, when he says where employers are stimulated in the other area. That's right. It is true that our economic environment is not yet that way. It's true they're not stimulated. It's true they have a small number of employees. It's true they don't have a big trade, a business twist. Just because they don't have a big business twist, of course, they don't even have enough income. It's true that because they can't secure their own reserved shares, but that doesn't mean it's constant, it doesn't mean it's going to stay forever. They need to be legally able not to break the law without giving incentives to employees to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67547	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67548	We certainly are in favour of stimulating the development of the economy in Serbia, but we need to look at the real situation, we need to look at what the facts are. A colleague, Jovanovic, is talking about increasing trade capital, trade funds. Do you know that most of the businessmen, these craftsmen buy on credit, there's no way for basic things to develop the way you'd want them to, and how we would like them to, as any normal person would want them to. But the problem is that state incentives don't give to our people, to our companies, to our small businesses, and we don't create the possibility that our small businesses develop, to expand, to employ people. You know, all those who come from the white world are here as long as their bill shows them that it's worth it. If you give 10,000 euros to the Serbian company and some small company from Serbia, the man who is from here, he will do everything to develop it, to expand, to hire as many people as possible, he does not open it to close after five years, but opens it to create a company that will be inherited by his successors. And there's a big difference in the principle of attitude between the SRS and you in power. We don't mind bringing foreign capital into Serbia, but what's happening with these big company facilities you'll agree to have no foreign capital, it's spending our money. They come here, they open up some drive, they hire some people, they get money here, they get utility infrastructure for free, they get land, they get everything, they get 10,000, 12,000 each, and where's their capital? There's no foreign capital. There are foreign companies with their own facilities, but they do it with our capital, our Serbian capital. We want that capital to be given to our people, to our companies. As far as the IT sector is concerned, we are certainly for the development of the IT sector, we are certainly for hiring as many people as possible, right in this sector. Here, you see how many have only been employed in the chip factory these last four, five years since the Wolf opened. But he didn't just promise her.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67549	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. By amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67550	Thank you. According to the amendment, it might take me a little more than two minutes to finally clear up some things so that he doesn't answer on this matter anymore. First of all, the systemic solution set out in this proposal does not apply to foreign employers, but to all employers in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. That's a real fact. Another fact, an incentive in terms of its own reserved share is linked to employees and are employed in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Third fact, I have to be figurative without banalizing the story. If my esteemed friend Žarko is setting up a company and gives that company his share, and I am employed in this company, his goal is not to start a company, but to get some income from the company that will be multiplier during the work and performance of the company's activity. In this way, as an employer, it will have the opportunity, not only to invest in the company, but to invest in employees where I am, which means that one day it will allow me to be part of the company’s management structure through my own reserved share, and that is the interest of the employer’s employee and interest. Why? If an employee is doing its job well to contribute to the growth of the income of a company, then there is no one, the only reason for this institute to be applied specifically. The applicant for the amendment may have ignored one fact, its own reserved share cannot be available. The employee has the right, but only a personal right, can't transfer that right to third parties, to have that share of his own. Secondly, in companies the size of their own shares is limited, it is 40%. Thirdly, employees have the right in the event of injuries by the employer and protection due to infringements of their own reserved share, both protection within a company, and judicial protection, and for this are economic courts. I think in that direction, the norming, the Honorable Minister, is very well done. As for stimulation, stimulation will exist that moment, and I will repeat it just once again, when our economic environment, when our economy reaches that rate of development where profits will be incomparably higher than today's, incomparably greater than today's average, is incomparably greater than what implies the possibility of providing its own reserved share of only elemental existence, must be far above that. This is the goal of Serbia's economy, i.e. the Serbian government, to establish such an economic environment, i.e. a structure, and then we would find it really difficult to demagogues, if we were against one such goal, or one such project of the government. The Socialist Party of Serbia, as a responsible party to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, as a party whose programme is the ideal of social justice, will certainly support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67551	Thank you. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67552	We have not said at any time that perhaps you, you who will vote, and also the Government, have some bad intention of proposing and tomorrow adopting, or adopting this bill, but we have also said that we are far from applying this law, and my colleague Jovanovic himself has said something similar on several occasions, and we are just asking, and that is why we have proposed to delete every member, because we think that this law has no purpose to exist in our legal system because it is inapplicable in our economic societies in our economy. What's a law that's going to be just a dead letter on paper, and from which, you'll see, only one company, one from the IT sector, will benefit? She's already had enough of local self-government and talked her into loans and doing software and so on, and only one company will benefit, no one will benefit from this law anymore. First of all, all that my colleague Jovanovic was saying – what an economic environment should be, what companies should be, what development should be, and so on, all of this should be ensured, and then a law like this should be passed. Your turn isn't right, you're going from tail to head. That's not how it works. Create conditions that the law can be applied, and then propose a law, and in that case we would otherwise discuss this law, so we are absolutely against the adoption of this law, and that is why we have proposed to delete each of the proposed... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67553	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. The word is Mr. Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67554	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it seems to me that when the National Assembly starts to pass laws that we will always have conspiracy theory and that something is done for a particular person, we will go to the point of literally banalizing things and thus gain some political points. Here, we had at the previous session a law that was related to the Employment Agency, so the biggest objection to the application of that law was: what if this agency were to instruct a worker, he was to earn his salary to another employer, and then the agency was to fail? There's been damage to the worker. And what if a normal company fails? And there's a worker there. What if the company with whom the worker was directed fails? So now we can't banalize and find reasons why certain matter doesn't need to be regulated. The law regulates what is allowed and the frameworks of what anyone has the right to do. Furthermore, Mr. Minister, we have a constant story that we don't have any foreign investments, even less domestic, etc. According to some data, there were 3.5 billion foreign direct investments in 2018. They say these aren't the sides that are our domestics, we've subsidized everything. Find me 3.5 billion euros to subsidize that. Come on, find me 3.5 billion euros here and have someone explain to me about those foreign investments we paid 3.5 billion euros. Let's move on. Five billion euros are planned for 2019, some foreign investments are estimated. Come on, find me those five billion euros from where the state can subsidise the amount of five billion euros. I'd like someone to explain it to me. He goes with the story most often - the job subsidizes, so he will pay the salary out of the subsidy for years, and yet say the lowest price of work. No, it's not like that. Here, to accept hypothetically that it's a possibility. But I have to ask a question, and what does that worker do? Well, he's got to get some raw materials, so that raw material has to be bought from another company, so he's got to get energy, heat, electricity. He's got to get gas, and he's got to buy it from one of our companies. He has to pay taxes on additional services. A series of taxis, contributions and everything that affects local self-government budgets and the budgets of the Republic of Serbia and which increases all economic activity in the part where it operates and in the business in which it operates. But, no, we're gonna sit down and talk -- that's what this is about, that's what it is, that's what the citizens are fooled about. You know, until yesterday, I didn't know that we had two million employees who live, who receive a minimum or slightly above minimum earnings? I didn't know that. I heard that from my opposition colleagues. This means that Serbia has 20 million inhabitants. That's it. Maybe even 30. That's how the flat-rate data is provided, fictional, to create some illusion that someone is going to abuse something. This is about companies. Companies are in 99% of private capital cases and now you convince me that the owner of private capital will, unless it has no economic benefit to apply this law. Come on, somebody convince some capital owner to apply this law without harming him, because here's a matter of choice, he can use it, and he doesn't have to, but we'll always make a conspiracy theory about it. I had an MP here. It's over there now. He has, he says, he thinks, smarter business, attacking the police, beating up journalists, breaking up the National Assembly. I called him a "Balkan spy". So conspiracy theory just seems to have fallen, but I didn't know there was another "Balkan spy" here in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67555	Thank you, colleague Arsic. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67556	Ha, ha, ha, commentary, but now I'm serious. This is amazing that someone who is a People's MP has been complaining to the MPs for days that, by discussing the bill's proposals, some political points are being made. Well, I guess you're also discussing and defending the laws, as indefensible and defenseless as you are, because you want to speak as politicians to the public? Is it a shame for the MP to be a politician? Not that it's a shame, but it's necessary. You know, you have MPs who read the prewritten texts, and that's some category you invented. We Serbian radicals are serious politicians and we are serious about this business. I, indeed, admit that I am not, hard to be a level expert at Veroljub Arsic, not an expert like Arsic, but I certainly do not lie like Arsic. This is the third time since yesterday...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67557	Don't do that, please, fellow Radeta. Let's respect each other.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67558	My colleague Marinkovic, you were not here yesterday at the moment when he chaired his colleague Arsic, when a colleague, who rarely spoke, rarely, but foolishly, so to speak, told Peter Jojic three times that he was lying and no one reacted. My colleague Arsic didn't react either, and since I remember and accept yesterday's experiences, for us to say, a liar, that he's lying is something...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67559	I have to. If I don't, who will?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67560	I'm sorry. Read the stenogram and it's been going on here since yesterday. So, never did any of the Serbian radicals say that two million people work for a minimumer, and that is a big lie, and that is an attempt to deceive the public because it bothers Arsic that we are saying that the minimum wage must be 37,000 dinars and a minimum pension of 37,000 dinars, because that is the value of a minimum consumer basket. We said more than 300,000 people work for a minimumer, more than 400,000 just slightly above the minimumer and more than a million pensioners receive a pension below that amount. Now, that's all more than two million.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67561	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. The right to replica has Veroljub Arsic. Here you go, colleague Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67562	Now, I can tell you that everything that's been said that my colleague wasn't telling the truth. Nor did I preside, when a fellow respected Peter Jojic was told that he was lying, nor was he told. (Miss Radeta: What? Something else has been said. Check the stenographic notes, as said, two million people receive minimum earnings. (Faith Radeta: E, you're lying.) Here, we'll check it out by stenograms. I don't want to bother myself very much. It's not my goal. Of course MPs have the right to present their political programmes, but they do not have the right to present false and false information. They do, though, but then don't mind when we answer the truth and the correct data. To whom the citizens will believe more, they will show it in the elections, and as far as the more demagogy that Zoran Stoiljkovic started, when he, as union president, supported the cataster strike, and the strikers, meaning not all the employees, only one small number of employees beat and prevented citizens from entering the Republic Catastre and to exercise their rights. Now, that's the policy and he invented this story that the minimum labour price must be at the height of the consumer basket and that the minimum pension must be at the height of the consumer basket. I say it's ideal, I wish it was possible, but I have some more questions to ask. Is the minimum consumer basket for one man or one household? I say it's for an average household. Another thing, does one average household have only one salary or pension or more? Let's talk about life, not make up reasons. So there's more. Now the large majority of households have two employees. Alexander Seselj, they don't know what to do. Here, a fellow who throws away, he doesn't know what to do with the job. He's very busy, he's taking a walk, he's visiting. He'd better sit in the National Assembly and learn from older colleagues. That's how I learned. That's what this is about. So here's a whole story about the banalization of everything that's been done in the National Assembly. When they come across arguments, they claim that someone insults them, that someone calls them liars, that we invent data, etc. I think the citizens will appreciate it in the election.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67563	Thank you, colleague Arsic. The Right to Replica has the Faith of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67564	If the citizens value the election according to Arsic, it's hard to list it. A colleague, Arsic, had recently objected to our colleague Alexander Seselj, as a walk through the Assembly, and spoke more here about more amendments than Arsic was in his life. But a colleague of Arsic's here talking about someone he has or who isn't in the O.R., he's a representative of the ruling coalition. Dear citizens, today, here's the moment, now I've counted, they've all seen that I've turned around, the government's representative has 41 pieces. There, that's most of them. And then he complains to someone who works here or who doesn't. It's already called insolence. One more thing, when you speak to the Serbian Radical Party, to our MPs, please never say "the ambassador gives his opinion". It is Arsic who flew over, who, with a stolen radical mandate, went to advances. We Serbian radicals state the position of the Serbian Radical Party, which now, respected citizens, when it comes to salaries and pensions such that whoever says Arsic invented the formula, Serbian radicals are asking the authorities to make the smallest salary in Serbia 37,000 dinars, that the smallest pension in Serbia is 37,000 dinars, that this is the amount of the lowest consumer basket and that whoever does not receive for his work or for his past work on the name of the pension bar can't live so much. Says counterpart Arsic, how many family members work today. There's all the kids from 11 to 13 years of employment. How dare you? What employment and what salaries are you talking about? Ask these two million people, 300,000 with a minimum profit, 400,000 with a little more than that and more than almost a million and a half pensioners who receive less than that, ask them how they live.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67565	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. The right to replica has Veroljub Arsic. Here you go. What about me, I'm sorry? What about you? No one mentioned you. (Alexadar Seselj: Prejudicials my questions...) He didn't mention you. Here you go, colleague Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67566	Wait, how much was said? Yeah, remind me, how many pensioners are on a minimum pension? A million and five hundred? Well, a million and seven hundred thousand total has pensioners in Serbia. That's what I'm talking about. Now you see how it's banalized, how it's brought out falsely? Now, I have another question. The Serbian Radical Party was not a majority opposition. She was in the government. She was in the government in 1998, 1999, until 5 October 2000. And I was a member of that same party at the time, not such a high-ranking official. Now, if this was their political programme, I'm asking a question, what was the minimum labour price from 1998 to 2000 not the average consumer basket? Why was the minimum pension during that period not in the amount of the minimum consumer basket? Why didn't they do it? Maybe they wouldn't make it, but they'd say -- people, we tried. Nothing's been tried. Nothing was tried because at this point, and it wasn't possible then. But so we can deal with demagogues and attack everything that's good so that we have reason to criticise and survive on the political scene.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67567	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Now the right to replica has an authorised representative of the SRS, Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67568	First of all, Mr. Arsic, I find it very difficult to discuss with you, so I avoid being in the O.R. because the real strength of your arguments is something that is difficult for me to bear, and then I look to avoid it sometimes. I can't even warn everyone at the same time what you're saying, so I'm trying to sort of figure out what you're talking about. What you are participating in is in supporting this illusion created by the Government of the Republic of Serbia on life in Serbia. You say – in Serbia you live, on the historical level there are salaries, pensions, never better etc. The difference between your authority and DS power, that's true and these are the nuances. Do you live better than before? Yeah. Do you live well enough? No, I don't. Is he living the way you say he is? That certainly doesn't. Because we are witnesses that you are at the expense of pensioners and employees in the public sector, you have been cutting profits and taking pensions, and you have not remembered that you might reconsider the policy of subsidising foreign investors, to examine the enormous financing of NGOs from Serbia's budget. You could have done all that, so after you exhausted all possible resources, when you cut all unnecessary costs, when you introduced this office for the quick answers you talked about seven years ago, and you didn't do anything when you came to power, then you see where else some savings could be made, not immediately taken from pensioners and employees in the public sector. Compared to today's situation and the time when we came out of the sanctions period, when we were bombed, I don't think it's very realistic, especially since the same ones who bombed us, who always wanted all the worst Serbia, who took Serbia and everything else, are today your allies and participated in bringing your party to power, if nothing else and the team showed you what they congratulated you, three hours before the polls closed, winning when it was not yet known. So, Mr. Arsic, you'd better think about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67569	Thank you, Mr. Seselj. The right to replica has Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67570	So, with 130 million foreign investment, they say, which should be 5 billion euros in 2019. That's it. Do you live well in Serbia? No one here said that. Don't give us words we didn't say. We said to live better than before, but we have to work a lot more to reach the standard we want. That's not what we're gonna do if we tap into a place, we're afraid of all kinds of conspiracy theories, and we're not doing anything out of that fear. So if you want to do something, you have to be aware of the risk, you have to accept them and you have to fight to overcome them. Sitting in a place didn't do anybody any good. If you live better in Serbia, you said so yourself. Is that how we'd like it to be, it's not. We're still a long way from it, I say, but we have a lot of work to do. You know what? As you come here to sit in the National Assembly, you must notice that there is a growing and greater crowd in the city. (Alexander Seselj: Buried everything.) You notice. No, it's not what's been dug up. They're stories for little kids, they're certain parts of the city. You know why? Because more cars are being driven, because more people are doing something, because more people have money, and then you're going to get hold of those most drastic examples that we want to solve, but we can't solve individual cases, but systematically, so when we solve these individual cases systematically. So, what's the problem with this law? You want to stop some capital owner? He owns the 100% owner of his company, wants someone to settle their own share. What's so controversial about that? He will if he has an economic account. What are you stopping him from doing? Because it's going to be, it's written for one company. Maybe it is, maybe it isn't. And what if it is, what is it going to get illegally or unlawfully, and what is he doing that gives him his share to be damaged? Well, he won't. What are you stopping people from doing? No one wants to do it for free. No one's going to work to make a living. It's a time of socialism, it's been a long time.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67571	Thank you, colleague Arsic. Mr. Seselj is entitled to a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67572	A clear economic account is, above all, those foreigners who come to Serbia, which is that they will receive subsidies by job 10, 15, 20, who knows how many, no rules, is the deal, and the job. The land will get free, everything will be possible for him for free, and they should only be here to make profits, and in fact, workers' salaries are financed precisely from these subsidies granted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. That's first of all. When the period of these subsidies expires, they again come to the government for an agreement on another subsidy programme, under the threat that unless it is realised, they will leave the country. That's what Fiat does every year. How do we compete with other countries? Are we competing with a better economic environment, better regulation, etc., with that Hungary, Macedonia, Albania, etc.? No, I don't. We're competing with them who's going to pay these investors more to come here, at work. Is that normal? So what we give the most, they come for it, not because we're so successful and smart, etc. You're talking, and it really is an illusion, and your promises last for a maximum of 24 hours. You're talking about the German standard, the growth that's bigger than the German. We have the largest growth in Europe that's bigger than Germany. That's what the president said several hundred times. You're talking about Swiss pensions. You're talking about non-existent factories. It's simply not a reality in Serbia. It can't be our growth of a billion and a half to be greater than the German growth of 50 billion, but it's bigger for us and, please, it's a historic level. Well, it's not exactly true. As for the crowd in Belgrade, yes, you're right, there's a really big crowd in Belgrade. I remind you that your president of the party and president of the Republic at the 2018 rally in Batajnica said that the exclusion on the highway would be made in three months. Yes, yes, dear friends, don't count on those local advances of yours to do it. They didn't promise you that, but I promise you that. It can be found on the Internet, it can be found on YouTube. That's what Vukic said in February at Batajnica. Here, now December 2019, he said that in February 2018, not one shovel moved there. So much for your promises.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67573	Thank you. The right to replica has Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67574	A respected colleague would have had to know a little better about the Law on corporate income tax, so he would have to know a little better about the Law on Income Tax, so that he could so casually and easily say that these companies come to Serbia, earn some money and make profits. To that profit they make, first they have to pay taxes on the profits of legal persons, or they have to pay taxes on the income of citizens as founders, if they are natural persons who want to pay them dividends. That's what he needs to learn first. When he pays his taxes, it's his money and it's his money and it's the one he brought here to Serbia. You can't argue with that. Now, let's not throw ourselves at each other with any benefits, is it just that employer or investor coming to Serbia? There is. Does he have any employees? So does he. Now one more question. Let's say for 100 new employees, do you know how many more employees you have in this business that's not the subject of an investment? About 20 new employees. You subsidized 100 jobs, you got 125. Do you know how much further the number of employees in the service sector is increasing? About 15 more. You know, when someone gets paid, he starts spending that salary. They'll spend it at the store, spend it on dates, spend it wherever they want. And in that part, the number of employees increases. Start thinking that it's not all black and white, that there are always accompanying actions and other actions in the economy that one investor is starting. Sartid would not defend himself as long as he defended himself. It wasn't just about those 3,000 workers who worked there, here, and 5,000 to be. It was the economy of the Danube County, which was related to the work of Sartida. That's another 20,000 people. It's the same with Bora. When did these exes propose to close the Bor, why do you subsidize it so much? Well, they would have closed that whole part of eastern Serbia. Not those three, four thousand workers, but 20,000 workers. (Alexander Seselj: 5,000. Here, let's do five, but another 20 counts. It's not like you're looking at all black and white. You can't blame anyone who wants to make money, but you can't blame us for being willing to invest in getting our citizens a job.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67575	Thank you. The word is Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67576	You can set an example where it might have actually happened. So, on 100 employees, then it was 120, maybe that's it. Is most of these cases? I don't think so. Most of these cases, when 200 or 300 jobs are originally opened, work for a year there are far less people than they were originally employed. But, well, these are individual examples. But there is no study that shows us the justification of this subsidy program. Where is this study? Where is it that we have seen that it is actually very useful for Serbia that we give so much subsidies? And is it true that we compete with these other countries only by who will give more to the workplace? What is the difference between Serbia and Hungary or Serbia and Macedonia? Maybe it's a better example between Serbia and Macedonia. It's just the difference how much it's given in the workplace and nothing else. As regards ‘Sartida’, i.e. "The Irons" in Smederev, we stopped you from doing what they did to the yellow ones, which is to give to the Americans, who would only make that profit from there, wouldn't care at all how many people do there, how busy it is and what it will be, when you wanted to bring "Esmark" to Smederevo. What you said about "Bor" and Smederevo with Chinese companies "Hbis" and "Zi Jin" shows you something else. This shows you the difference between investments coming from the EU and some Western countries and investments coming from the east. We are witnessing that Chinese investments coming into Serbia, coming here on a long time, coming here to stay, not interested in profit in the first year or in some original period, but are interested in doing business and staying there. That is why we also warn that something must not be forced just because it comes from the EU and that not all that comes from the EU is automatically good. It may be a good regulation, but most often it is very bad for Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67577	Thank you. The word is Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67578	Here, he says, let's pay 200 jobs, work these people for a year, then some get fired, etc. And the investor is finally gone. Tell me, has any investor left Serbia in the last five years? Do you have any investors who used this program of our government to leave the territory of the Republic of Serbia? So you didn't hear it anywhere, so there aren't any. One more thing. Do you really think we're a banana state, so let's do this? (Alexander Seselj: Yes. The Faith of Radeta: Of course. ) You may also think that you are insulting the Republic of Serbia, but if you want the grant, they are used for a certain period of time, and under that certain time period, it must adhere to certain conditions, and therefore gives a bank guarantee. But let's learn that too. One more thing, the system, the subsidy, the investment in the countries, did not invent Serbia. For example, it is also applied in Slovenia. Do they live in Slovenia better than we live in Serbia today? I think so. That model was also applied in Hungary. Do they live better than we do in Serbia? I think so. It's applied in Slovakia, and they also have a better standard of living. It's applied in Poland, and they have a better standard of living. The average salary in Poland is now 1,000 euros. It's also applied in the Czech Republic, they have a better standard of living. What do we do now? You want us to make up some other hot water? It's not just about who was applying, what countries were applying that model, it's about how that model was applied. Because here, we honestly apply it and we take care of our citizens and our investment, because that's our investment, you don't have investors who have left Serbia, you don't have investors who have reduced the number of employees. It was at the time of Mirko Cvetkovic. It was at the time of Boris Tadic, Dragan Gilas, etc. When the factory opens, it subsidizes, works for two days, and factory workers disappear. That time has passed.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67579	Thank you, colleague Arsic. The word is made by Minister Sinisha Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67580	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, we heard a lot of arbitrary comments and words about attracting foreign direct investment in Serbia, so I felt obliged to address you on this issue. So dealing with investment and attracting foreign investors, of course, encouraging and domestic investment, is not a simple job and it is not true that they are only looking at the amount of subsidies. It is a much more complex issue and the first issue always begins with the predictability of a political and economic environment, with stability and economic and political. The coming investor wants to know that in five years and 10 years, and 50 years, since he invests his money on a long-term basis, the situation in one country will be stable and predictable. It's the biggest success of this government in the last few years, when foreign investors are at stake. So, first question, look, we won't even get to you if we don't know that you're stable, and why and how we think you'll be stable even in the years that come. When one factory is built, it is tens of millions of euros in investment. So, there's no one who can build it today and shut it down and leave the day after tomorrow. It hasn't happened in our country in the last five or six years. So, we've done a lot of work and show objective results, international credit ratings, "Duing Business List" of the World Bank, the status and report of the IMF and everything that Serbia is a stable and secure country for investment. That's number one. Please note, of course, that our competitors are not just countries in the region, but other countries in the world, other continents. When one investor makes a decision, he can invest in the whole world and first he wants to know if the country is quality and attractive for investment and stable. The second question – what depends on his business plan? It's the highest quality labour force. Is there a workforce, is it available, what is the quality of the workforce? What is very important is that in our country the workforce is always highlighted as one of the most important factors for which foreign investors come. Which, I heard a comment earlier, and you're wrong, it's not that it's a cheap workforce. Since the average salary in Serbia is growing year by year, the minimum labour price is increasing, so it is no longer an argument. You have working force cheaper in many other countries, yet foreign direct investors come here to Serbia and invest. The third is subsidies. These subsidies or investment support are given by each country. You also had an example of “Folcvagen, ” just consider it. So, when the issue was "Folcvagen" - well, what are you offering us to come to your country without it being neither Turkey nor Bulgaria nor any other country? It was also a matter of subsidies. So we have to fight. What's good for Serbian citizens, we have money, we have stable finances, besides becoming an attractive investment destination, and the results show. So, let me remind you, 9.5% unemployment rate. There, the result of an increase in investment and a higher number of factories. Since 1996, since it was measured, it has never been less. You have foreign direct investments. Number one, we're on the Financial Times list last year. This year already 40% more investment than last year. Serbia is changing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67581	Thank you, Minister. We're closing a circle of replicas. We're moving on with our work. Alexander Seselj throws. A fellow Seselj, we're closed, not every amendment for 45 minutes. We have an agenda. There's no agenda. All right, whatever you turn around, I'll be incorrect. I'm trying to be correct, if that means anything to you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 6th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67582	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm going to talk about a strange business society. The company's name is Milo Djukanovic to the company. So Milo Djukanovic's drop company is a society that deals with major historical thefts, no longer work on finesse. So these are those large companies in Montenegro that steal the national identity of Serbs, steal history. May I have your attention, you may not be interested in that question. So they steal the national identity of Serbs, historical memory, stealing a letter, stealing a language, and they start stealing a holy spirit. I want the Church National Assembly scheduled for tomorrow to pass peacefully. I want the defence of the assets of the SPC, which Milo Djukanovic is seeking to steal from the company after history, historical memories, letters, languages, Serbian culture. I want this defense and I want the defense to be peaceful and let the Holy Vassili help them and let these peaceable saints set an example for them to defend their sanctity. It means to be peaceful, dignified and, above all, we need to take care of these national interests of Serbs, because Milo Djukanovic wants to steal it, that after beating up Serbs through the public sector, he is now trying to hijack the assets of the SPC, kidnap the place where Serbs are gathering, where they talk and where they keep the national identity of those who are willing to keep it. I want them not to transfer too harsh words to those who have become Montenegrinos, for the simple reason, Milo Djukanovic has no scruples, no shame or shame on any possible conflict. I believe that these Montenegrini will once return to the Serbian roots. When Milo Djukanovic passes, he goes through everything. I wish them what they say in the old song – in the most difficult winter days of the Serb brothers, the Sharp Dam, and I want to defend it. The squirrel Radeta throws it away. )
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67583	Thank you. You're right, fellow Radeta. (Alexander Seselj: Rules of Procedure. ) The word is Alexander Seselj, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67584	Article 27, Mr. Marinkovic. That you have an agenda, whatever that word means, but certainly it can't be a matter of internal agreement within the ruling coalition to apply the Rules of Procedure and how it will be done in the Assembly, but above all it should be a matter of respect for the norms, and then it can be a matter of some agreement and that if all parliamentary groups agree. The fact that you've made a deal can't really suspend the Rules of Procedure. Secondly, what we have had the opportunity to hear, I would like to say once again that one of the consequences of the EU's and other Western forces in this area is the process of accelerated depletion that lasts both in Serbia and Montenegro and in Republika Srpska and everywhere in the Balkans. We now have a chance to see in Montenegro...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67585	Wait, Comrade Seselj, what does this have to do with my breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67586	Just as much as the discussion by Marijan Risticevic on his amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67587	Well, you're not here to judge. Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in Vote Day?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67588	Hold on. So how do you do it?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67589	No, I told you yesterday. So I see that you intend to obstruct the session, but I'm really not going to let you. I have the authority in accordance with Article 27. I continue to run the session as I know it, as I can in the best faith and will, that it flows in a truly correct and demographic tone. Alexander Seselj throws. Please don't now... You're teaching us all a lesson here. Alexander Seselj throws. I don't know how many replicas you've had. I gave you six, seven replicas, both you and your colleagues Arsic and Minister Malo. You speak out loud with me. A little respect for this institution. (Alexander Seselj: You think your opinion is stronger than the Rules of Procedure. That's not true, as much as you are... . So it's not true... You now know that because of that throw, I have the opportunity to warn you and not to do so. Alexander Seselj throws. I'm threatening you? Please don't. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? Thank you. I'll think you do. Marijan Rističević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67590	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, section 103, paragraphs 7 and 8, but I must say immediately that I do not insist that you apply that provision. I didn't speak last time, I apologize if I've timed out, here I apologize, that's what many have done in replicas, I've waited patiently for two hours, almost two hours to come to order, for my amendment to come. I was speaking on the amendment to companies and I was talking about the company I call – Milo Djukanovic to the company, which steals the national identity of Serbs and now the property of the Serbian Orthodox Church. That's what I was talking about with the desire for tomorrow's gathering to pass in peace and nothing more. If someone misunderstood, I apologize to everyone. I won't answer again and I'm not asking you to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67591	Thank you, Mr. Ristichevich. (Alexander Seselj: Rules of Procedure. We're moving on with our work. You can yell all you want. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Here you go. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: Rules of Procedure. Please report after Nikola Savic. Would you like a word from your colleague Saviæ? No, I don't. ) (Verica Radeta: Rules of Procedure. ) (Alexander Seselj: Rules of Procedure. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? (Alexander Seselj: Business. Do you want the word after the amendment? (Alexander Seselj: Business. ) Thank you very much. Member of the 11th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? (The People's MPs of the SRS are getting it. I'm giving a five-minute break. I'm not allowing any obstruction of Parliament's session. You can yell all you want. No more. I've been tolerant and patient. Thank you. Five minutes off. We'll keep working after that. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. (Alexander Seselj: Rules of Procedure. ) The Belief of Radet according to the Rules of Procedure. (Alexander Seselj: Waiting for Martinovic to tell you what to do to the spineless one. A fellow Seselj, you have a warning. (Alexander Seselj: Shame on you, you rag.) ) You have a second warning from your colleague Seselj. Alexander Seselj throws. Tell me one more time. You have a third warning. I'm shutting you down from session. (Miss Radeta: Rules of Procedure. ( b) The Belief of Radet, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67593	First of all, you have no idea how you can turn it off. It's a shut-down. Look what it says in the Rules of Procedure. You have no conditions to disengage from the session. There is no third warning. There are two, and there's a takeaway. You don't know the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67594	That's what I did.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67595	You didn't. And what did you say? What's the disfellowshipping from the session?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67596	You're the only one who's been breaking my Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67597	The 107th most harshly offended is the dignity of the National Assembly. They chose you today to act as a force, to show you how you can do whatever you want, and we say to you: "Don't make us show that we can do whatever we want." What they've done is top-notch, and there's no other expression. Don't let the People's Parliament speak in the Rules of Procedure because you have an agenda. He's got an agenda for how long it's gonna take to discuss the amendments. It's real to cross a man with both the left and the right. So you have agreed in advance – there is no replica, there is no Rules of Procedure, and someone else throws you out of place – don't give them the Rules of Procedure, make them move on, and he doesn't want to speak in the Rules of Procedure. Indeed, Gordana Comic has invented democracy for what you have been doing today for the last half hour. This isn't you, Mr. Marinkovic. You've never been like this before, but you've been chipped that you have to act like one today. The trouble with these laws is that through this law someone doesn't mention the brother Anna Brnabic, who makes you bring this law. You think we don't know. We try not to say it directly all the time. Now you've heard. That's why you're having a problem with having another affair through the law right now. You're low on Krusika, you're low on drugs, you're low on fake Ph.D., you're low on ministers without a college, you're low on Bechtella, you're low on... You've been so encumbered in corruption, in affairs, in crime that St. Peter can't wash you, and you're just defending us, don't let us talk. There's room, we'll be in touch.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67598	Thank you. You know it's not true yourself, and I'm really trying to get everyone represented in one equal way these days, but you have to understand, and you have to warn your colleagues as someone who's the deputy head of the Parliament club to behave in one dignified way in a session of the National Assembly, not that you only have the rights of the Rules of Procedure, the Law on the National Assembly and everything that binds us here, and no obligations. When I told the agenda that it was, I just said in the sense that I couldn't give infinitely and you know it well that it wasn't possible, nor was it okay. I just said I didn't want to allow any obstruction of Parliament's work. I've estimated that it's coming and that's why I want to keep working. That's it. (Alexander Seselj: Rules of Procedure. You have the right to the word after the amendment. (Alexander Seselj: Business. ) (Verica Radeta: The Rules of Procedure have priority. ) Would you like to make a statement under this amendment, to make a comment? Comrade Seselj, I told you, to warn, anything and how. You have to give him your word in the Rules of Procedure. Are you crazy? ) Would you like to make a comment? No, I don't. We've completed our review of the amendments. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have carried out a review of the draft law in principle and detail, the National Assembly will decide on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. I'm asking you to continue the session in one normal tone, I'm very ready and in the mood for it, as always, but I'm not ready, as my colleague said nicely, to be a rag, not to him, not to anyone here, and that was absolutely incorrect. What you have with Martinovic, please, you see him every day, you feel free to discuss, not with me. We are going to the draft law amending and supplementing the Public Debt Act. (Alexander Seselj: Business. ) You have received amendments submitted by MPs Slavica Zivković, Dr Predrag Jelenković, Dr Ivan Bauer, Branimir Jovanovic, Vjerica Radeta, Milorad Mirčić, Aleksandar Seselj, Nemanja Sarović, Natasa Sp. Jovanovic, Sreto Peric, Zoran Despotovic, Tomislav Ljubenović, Ruzica Nikolic and Nikola Savic. In writing, the amendment to Article 3 was withdrawn by MP Alexander Seselj. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. (Alexander Seselj: Business. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Here you are, colleague Radeta. You have a Rules of Procedure. Don't you want to? I run the session, not you. No one wants a word. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? Miladin Ševarlic, come in. You have a Rules of Procedure, are you deaf? ) (Alexander Seselj: E, you will be anointed by Martinovic later. Here you go, Professor.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67599	Thank you very much. I have no intention of discussing this amendment, but I want to take advantage of my time and thank you for meeting the finance minister today. It is likely that this assembly of the National Assembly will enter the economic encyclopedia, believe it or not, because I don't know if there is any parliament in a world where the final accounts are also considered at one point in the agenda for 17 years. I don't see what's the point of considering, with so much time behind, except that someone's doing analysis, writing papers, and so on. But here I am thanks to these materials that we received a review of total tax revenues, by years, from 2012 to 2018. Then, incentives for agriculture and rural development. The results are next. In 2012, 32 billion and 520 million 37,000 731 dinar were planned. 30,403,614 dinars were spent, which means a minus, or a reduction below 5% is four billion 136 million. In 2013 minus five billion 716 million. In 2014 minus 819 million 612 thousand. In 2015, minus 13 billion 691 million. In 2016, minus 17 million 627 thousand. In 2018, the minus 17 million is 198,000. And in 2019 minus 17 billion 780 million dinars. The total minus is 76 billion 978 million 474 thousand and 660 dinars. In view of this, and given that the planned budget for 2019 envisions 43 billion 711 million 697 thousand dinars, i.e. minus 10 billion 928 million dinars, as well as the planned budget for 2020 minus 15 billion 596 million, this total results in the reduction of the agricultural share, below 5%, 103 billion 503 million. I would ask this Assembly to take a position on how to compensate farmers, that is, agriculture and rural development, because after pensioners, this is the largest reduction of the corresponding part of the budget. At the same time, more than 20,000 agricultural experts are unemployed in Serbia today. I welcome the decision to hire 100 doctors and 100 nurses who were the best during schooling during the previous period, but does this country that should be recognizable among other things and by exporting non-genetically modified agricultural food products, which do not belong to the GMO group not deserve to be employed at least every year by 100 best agronoms. I expect answers from the minister why haven't we considered the budget, that is, the 2018 budget law, when we were at least considering the 2020 plan? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67600	Thank you, Professor. Chesaves. The word is Sinisha Mali. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67601	Dear MPs, I didn't just understand the last sentence on the 2020 plan. We did talk. That's exactly the 2020 budget, and I'm going to do it again about the figures and figures that you're saying. So long ago, the agrarian budget passed 5% of its income. That's what I was talking about when we talked about the budget to 5.2%. In your time, in 2012, you had subsidies for farmers of 12 billion dinars. Now with the 2020 budget, a 50m-euro World Bank loan, the participation of a 24m-euro state, we will go to over 50 billion dinars of incentives for farmers in 2020. That's a little less than five times as much as in 2012, when you were in power. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67602	Thank you, Minister. The right to the replica has Miladin Ševarlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67603	I don't see the basis of what you're talking about, Mr. Minister, in my day, when I wasn't in any function at the time, and you were in that period. Secondly, I'm asking the public to do this, please give me a tax on the 2020 budget positions and make me a sum of 56 billion 605 million dinars, how much is a minimum of 5% of the total tax revenue. If you prove it to me, I'll admit you're right. So, on the story that it's 5.2 or 5.31, etc. Please write that I can publish it, comment. Besides, why do you avoid providing me with an official response of how much 5% was in the total period from 2012 to today per year. (Marian Risticevic: Why not before 2012) How about before, why not? I don't mind. Today I received data from the Supreme State Auditor as planned, how many budget laws are foreseen and how many executions in thousands of dinars. I didn't really know there was a Supreme State Auditor, but that's how it was signed.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67604	Are you finished, Professor?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67605	If I can get answers, not for me, but for the public.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67606	All right, here comes the minister of replica. He'll do his best. The word is made by Minister Sinisha Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67607	Dear MPs, I don't know if we had or if we didn't have a budget debate. So one five or six times I've collected all your digits very precisely and got to the amount of 5.2% for 2020. I don't know how many times I have to draw it for you or add it up for you? I can't do your job. You concentrate nicely, take a look at all the records that were in the previous sessions. I'm going to have that table in front of me again, so I'm going to read you all those numbers 25 times, it's no problem, but I'm just asking you not to deceive the public. It was never more incentives for agricultural producers than it will be in 2020. We'll have over 50 billion dinars compared to 12 billion in 2012. That's accurate data. The rest is, we like it or we don't like it, if you're saying that agriculture was better off than it is now, I don't agree with you. So, the participation of the agricultural budget in revenues is 5.2% for 2020, with incentives over 50 billion in that. End of story. Everything else is just a distraction, plus of course it's a loan that we got from Abu Dhabi for irrigation systems, so capital projects. I do not now have in mind how many kilometers and these systems we have done in the last few years, and certainly much more than in the period since 2012, 2011, 2010 and 2009 when nothing has been done in this matter. We're only going to have better days, because we're going to have more money in the budget, and we're going to invest even more in agriculture. So, I'd just like to ask you not to deceive the public, I'll read it to you again just to get that table, a table I've read a few times, while we've defended the budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67608	Thank you, Minister. National MP Miladin Ševarlic called for a comment. Here you go, Professor Chevarlich.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67609	I did not say that agricultural and rural development incentives in 2020 are not nominally the largest. That's what you specifically pointed out, and I didn't dispute it. However, I dispute that the funds planned in the 2020 budget of 41 billion 008 million 753 thousand dinars, that are less than 56 billion 605 million, amounting to a minimum 5% of the incentives for the total tax revenues that are planned for 2020, a thousand 132 billion and 100 million dinars. I ask you, give me a table with your signature and all the elements according to certain budget positions that are included in the sum that you claim to be 5.2%, to check how you came to the sum of 5.2% of the tax revenue per certain budget positions that you consider to be incentives for agriculture and rural development. Can we get that? Can I have that?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67610	Thank you, Professor Chevarlich. The word is Sinisha Mali. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67611	Dear MPs, I just told you, I'm going to reunite you in front of you and the MPs, all the numbers, and we're going to get to that 5.2%. What I forgot to say earlier, which is very important, the amount of incentives that grow from year to year, is also linked to the potential of our agriculture. All the demands we've processed and all the demands that have arrived and paid for. That's the most important thing. As much as it encourages you to put in the budget, if you don't have the money to pay them, as it was during the previous authorities, it's completely pointless. We, on the other hand, are responsible for what we promise and do, what agricultural producers count on and get through payment, we don't have any delays in that matter. It's another big change compared to the time you were in power. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67612	Thank you, Minister. Now the word has Milan Lapcevic. Here you go, colleague Lapčević. (Miladin Chevarlic: Replication if only? (Alexander Seselj: Can't, go on, don't obstruct Shevarlic.) Don't obstruct. ) (Alexander Seselj: Shevarlic, do not obstruct the work of parliament. [[Miladin Ševarlic: Why can't a replica?]] Just keep up with your colleague Lapčević. Comrade Seselj, I'm asking you just to make sure that our colleague Lapčević speaks.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67613	We have heard from Mr. Minister and from the MPs from the congregation's majority, how good we are all these years and how many measures the ministry has implemented and the entire government, have, influenced, influenced and affected future growth in the economy, on greater employment. So we came up with a famous 9.5% unemployment figure, and that seems to have finally come down below that 10% jobless figure, most thanks to government measures. One of the measures the minister forgot to say is building infrastructure across Serbia, in great help to the economy. Among other things, the highway "Milos the Great" was opened the other day in full profile, and we heard that the stock from Surcin to Obrenovac will have no charge ramps. I really express my dissatisfaction and solidarity with citizens from Surcin and Obrenovac who were not so fortunate to have their payment ramps, like us in Nis, in the village itself. Please make the same picture you took in Nis, in the next steps you'll expect to help the economy. To make a ghetto like this wherever you start out of town, you come across a billing ramp. This will certainly affect the growth of the economy, the rapid flow of goods, capital, people will be able to pass through this new infrastructure more efficiently, so that they too are interesting for new investments. This is a picture of Nis looking like with new payment ramps, which will operate from January 1st next year, and this is unfortunately a picture of Belgrade and the surrounding areas where the payment ramps that are so important for the growth of the economy are 30km away from the city. I don't think that's right. The citizens of Belgrade and the economy are in an unequal position, and I don't think you should do that. Please make the future the same way you made us happy, to make the citizens of Belgrade and the environment happy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67614	Thank you, colleague Lapčević. According to this amendment, Stanislava Janosevic reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67615	Thank you, Chairman. To be clear at first, I'm not answering at all because of who the amendment was supposed to explain, but because of how the amendments have been explained lately, since they're with status -- they're being deleted. Is it realistic that every member of the law has status - is deleted. Do we have to delete every member, just the law? It's simply an abuse of time to talk about anything, about Mark's endings. My well-intentioned advice is not to practice in the future. For what reason? Those who were the most fanatical advocates were to explain the amendment with the description being deleted, there was just enough and there was a Dwri. What happened? The description "is deleted" to their political option has chronically moved. Today "Enough" does not exist on the political scene of Serbia, and Dvori in fragments. What's going on? When you look at that O.R., or part of the O.R. in the National Assembly, we see that there are no yellow coalitions. Many small parties are united in the Alliance for Serbia. What is it that brings them together? They're connected by two things. The first is love. Although it sounds nice, but it's love of money, love of fascism, love of the settlement. The second is pathological hatred for Alexander Vukic. Is it normal for someone to put a target on the president's chest in the 21st century? Do they know that the president is a state institution? What did the president of the state of Aleksandar Vukic do to them? Individually and grouply nothing. They made themselves, my colleague, by not having a plan and a program of work. And, as many as they are on that side, Aleksandar Vukic acts alone on the other side, but he is not, with him are citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are provided with a good life and will certainly allow him to win the next election, which will never happen to them in life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67616	Thank you, colleague Janošević. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. The People's MP Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go, colleague Rističević. Sign up.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67617	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, public debt can be a good and bad friend. He was a bad friend during the former government, and he's a good friend during the new government. If you create a source for debt recovery, if you make a car accident, if you attract investment, if more investment is made, if new jobs, if gross domestic products grow, then it is a productive public debt and it is then created to develop the country. If you're making 320km of highway, if you're going to make fast traffic, if you're going to raise Serbia, that public debt has created a source for the public debt. It's like when a peasant raises a loan and buys a tractor and through the works a tractor he returns that loan and improves his ownership. It's a good host. Bad host, that's what it was during the former regime, credited, money taken to the Maldives, spent money, and then when it comes time to pay back, they have no place to get it back. It's that bad agricultural land, when a farmer raises a loan to go to a bar, to go to sea, etc., and not to use it in the development of his agricultural land. That's the way it is with the state. If you use low-interest loans six to seven times over the former regime to develop your country, raise its economic and military power, then that debt is a good friend. I believe that this country will progress further, if only those outsiders, who are trying to threaten us, don't overuse those who steal us from inside and now want to help those who have threatened us, I believe that if they don't use us and divide us against each other, I believe that this power that doesn't rule, this power raises and raises Serbia, it is more valuable to raise Serbia than to rule it, I believe that economic progress will be even more striking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67618	Thank you, colleague Risticevic. The People's MP, Natasha Sp, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Jovanovic. Here you go, colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67619	It is amazing, Mr. Minister, today December 20th, that Serbian citizens still have to listen to all these stories, lies and deceptions that in 2020 and the new national fraud, according to the model Mladjan Dinkic and this Verice Kalanovic, which you hired as director of the Belgrade Shipyard, you will do some new national investment and to provide 12 billion over the next five years. It would be good for you to explain, since this is about the public debt of Serbia, what the current situation is, because maybe the citizens of Serbia did not understand well when the budget was debated, to explain to us, in addition to the 170m-euro deficit, it is a small deficit, from the gross social product, it is negligible, however, there are other obligations Serbia should pay off in 2020, and we are wondering where and how. What's the basic problem, Mr. Mali, is you'll probably agree as an economic expert, and you're in the position of finance minister, and maybe you didn't have enough time or courage, or someone told you -- don't touch it, bury yourself in the business of certain public enterprises. How can a fictitious display of alleged incomes and dividends that are paid into the budget show positive business for public enterprises that have been losers for years? They're taking checked credits for trade capital, and there's nothing hidden or secret about it. The Republic of Serbia and this Assembly must ratify individual loans when it comes to the EPS. You have the situation on the other hand that on a proposal by Zorana Mihajlovic was carried out in a government where you were not, at that time, the mayor of Belgrade, the restructuring of "The Railway of Serbia". We warned at a press conference that it was a new scam, a way to get money out of the railway company, and now you have "Serbia Kargo" that operates in such conditions that are not satisfactory and there is no profit that needs to be achieved by such a company, and the director of "Serbia Kargo" is walking today, perhaps around the Assembly in a cafe, in a luxury restaurant. Right, Markovic? A 5,000-euro suit carries a man, hand-made shoes, watches and all that. I don't even know what that idiot's name is. I've seen those photos, some of them alleys out there like lipiscans when they're getting ready for these fairs over there in Capco, but that one's got that kind of pay. Plus he steals, kidnaps to dress like that, and you say, "Oh, great, director of a public company." Do you think, gentlemen, that the citizens of Serbia, they know who the minister is, who the prime minister is, of course, the president of the state, as well as you who are always behind the pay phone, but do you think that citizens know who these individual thieves are in the positions of the director of public enterprises? Maybe even you don't know at SNS to ask you what your name is, you say – I don't know, I haven't seen it in my life. Well, then how are you, Mr. Markovic, going to defend a thief like that? You haven't heard or seen him, I suppose, in your life. What are you going to say now, you're going from Parliament to your building, where you already live, on foot or in a car, and a citizen asks you, is Markovic, where did that thief steal that kind of money and wear that kind of suit and drive that kind of jeep, to buy the latest BMWs, etc? Please don't spill any demagogy on us. We know very well, we were also fighting against that DOS government, and as far as we're concerned, about this five-octobaric powder that just followed me when I wanted to make nice sense of you not breaking the Rules of Procedure, it's known well how it went when he ran to defend Natasa Micic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67620	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. Now the right to replica has Sinisha Mali, Minister. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67621	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, I don't mean the details you've mentioned, but I think the subject of public enterprises is a very important topic. This is also on a list of priorities of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, not only in terms of improving business efficiency but also in terms of improving the quality of services offered by public undertakings. I have before me the results that these public enterprises achieved in 2017 and 2018 and for the first nine months of 2019. What is important, I told you in some previous address that a special sector is formed within the Ministry of Finance that deals with fiscal risks and analysis of the business of public enterprises, precisely because we don't want situations or cases happening in some previous governments, and that you have some public enterprises that aren't under control, and then you need to go out and pay some guarantees, that you have some debts or losses that are not predictable. That's why we're doing this a lot more seriously. For your information, the net result of all public enterprises in 2017 was 23.6 billion dinars, so we were in plus. I think in 2012, if I'm not mistaken, it was a negative result – 62 or 63 billion dinars. So, big move forward. We had a negative 1.9 billion in 2018, but for all public enterprises together. So it's a much better situation, and for us, public enterprises are no longer a fiscal risk, precisely because there is a clear and strict control of the way they do their business, they get consent to business plans, to rebalancing them, and in such a way we control what they do. We'll see what the results will be in 2019, so a few more days. In March next month with final accounts I'll be able to add up their results. But at this point, there is not one company or public company that I could tell you is a fiscal risk or a problem for the functioning of the Republic of Serbia's budget or to ask for additional money from the budget for its business, which is, of course, good news.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67622	Thank you, Minister. The right to replica has Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67623	Mr. Minister, you're in charge of that when you took over the Treasury Department. I can't really tell which date that was, remind me, you, 2017. As you iron the risks and debts of public enterprises, we want to have it on paper like this. So, you're to us, I have to say for the public, you weren't there yesterday, the SRS has been insisting for years that we get final accounts of the budget that we haven't had in 15 years and you've done it, we've discussed it. We now insist that the responsible Finance Committee, and why not the Assembly, has in the form of an act that goes before the National Assembly report exactly on the work and business of all these companies from the moment you took power since 2012. Is it normal for you, and that was happening, so we had a DRI report, that the directors of some public enterprises, here's "The Way of Serbia", are buying luxury cars, in "Electroprivred Serbia", it's not known what all the money was spent on. You say it's stopped, no more risks. Let it go, we sum up the results, we're going to next year's election. You've been in power for seven years, and now we want to know how your directors are, his name was Pera, Mika, however, have been doing business for the past seven years, how much money has gone, how much credit they've taken. And what you had to iron and get into the next fiscal year with a minimum risk, and you just didn't know how many credits you were giving them. But you draw the line now at the end of this year, so tell us for the past seven years how many billions of dinars or hundreds of millions of euros have gone to the losses of exactly the ones we've been potentialing here for years.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67624	Thank you, Mrs. Jovanovic. Minister Sinisha Mali has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67625	That data is public. So you also have on the Agency's business register website their balance sheet from all previous years. If you agree here in the Assembly that you have a special analysis, we as the Ministry of Finance can, of course, prepare. What matters to me, I just told you, you mentioned it, so let me just get back to it. So in some previous period 2012, 2011, 2009, there was a situation where you had no control over any guarantees that the state had provided for the functioning of certain public enterprises. That practice no longer exists. Therefore, for years back, the state has not issued any guarantee related to the business of any public undertaking. So we put order into our public finances, that's very important. That's why I told you that there is no company that represents fiscal risk at this point and that we can say that we will be surprised if we find out later on. No, no problem. If there are any individual or individual comments that you have stated, which I cannot enter now, that is another question, but total public enterprises, public enterprises that have 36 de facto and which are under the control of the Ministry of Finance, at least financially, at this point I am telling you, we have no problem with the functioning of any of them. Is there room for improvement in business? There's absolutely no mistake, and we're going to have to do it even more, but at this point there's no risk of budget functioning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67626	Thank you, Minister Mali. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic has the right to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67627	Look, Mr. Minister, it's not promising. You, as a responsible man and a man of the profession, must be careful. That's why you say there's no risk, we keep everything under control. Here, you said exactly the line that is the key to everything – there are also how conditions and should be to improve their work. Most of them were just founded to create this new value and profit that should be far ahead of any risk. So much profit, that he's capable of management there and that it wasn't those losses for so many years, that then you as a minister should be without a headache to come here and brag and only to spread out of your sleeve what a profit it is and how much they get. This way it's all petty, it's all at the risk level, there's no new borrowings, just so much that they're doing business at the level of some rentability, and that's not good. Secondly, in some, the right to tell you, concerning infrastructure, those related to nature, which means the overall environment in Serbia, I think, where and by following acts guaranteeing their development in line with the highest standards of environmental protection and all that Serbia has as this original natural potential, it takes much, much more investment. Even they can't do it alone without a country programme and without a developmental chance of giving it to certain areas. You have areas of Serbia that apply to protected areas of the first category. These are not yet formed national parks, and in the future they should be, in order to make a profit and to make the state more responsible for it. Do you know, Mr. Minister, we don't have time right now, how much data and co-worker Radeta and I and other colleagues have been out only for the cutting of the woods and in that entire belt down there, Verice, around Kursumlia and behind Kursumliska Banja. Is it normal for you today how much it costs, here, everyone knows who uses solid heat, wood, what it costs one cubic? Well, it's forests and forests that go missing, acres of forest. Now you look from the air at what it looks like, it's all a hole in the hole. Well, that should make up for it, Mr. Minister, for generations who know how much later your children and grandchildren and those who are yet to stand in Serbia. That's what we're talking about, not talking about -- well, it's like this today, we're going to see next year, but it's going to be a responsible policy that the SRS advocates, that they also know the generations in 10 and 20 years what we left for them in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67628	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. Sinisha Mali, Minister, has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67629	Thank you very much. Here, I'm looking at the table in front of me. In the end, let me tell you, maybe we didn't get along well, public companies earn some profit based on their work and make some profit at the end of 50% and pay the profits into the budget of the Republic of Serbia, we leave 50% for investment and for further progress and for further development. What I have at this point for 2019, from individual businesses, here, I'm going to read to you, you know, let's say, since 2008 we've been watching... Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: So do I. It's good to have you. So you only get 17 billion dinars from the Public Mail Company. You have 15 billion from Elektro Network, you have from Telecom Serbia 14.3 billion etc. What I'm trying to tell you is, if these companies were doing a bad job, they couldn't even pay the dividend, and that dividend is exactly the indicator of their business. When I said it before - it can do better, of course it can do better, but it doesn't mean they're doing bad. So that's very important. They work through and based on the budget approved by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and on this side the Government has control over their business. That's what I meant to say, I don't know what more and how much more we can discuss on this subject. So, public enterprises have great potential through further restructuring for further growth, for further growth in their profits, for improving the quality of services towards Serbian citizens, for further fostering the growth we expect through the 2025 agenda, I think we are on the right track. I've read to you a little while ago the information on how much the amount was received in 2017, so, 23.6 billion. If I told you from my head, I didn't make much of a mistake, in 2012, there were about 62/63 billion losses. So, Natasha, it's not a small difference, it's between 66 and 20, 80 billion, which is, 700 million euros is the difference in the business of public enterprises in the last few years. So the big shift forward and I say there's a possibility and for an even greater shift and potential, for an even greater shift forward, at that end we're working. You can't do everything overnight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67630	Thank you, Minister. The right to replica has Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67631	You understand, Mr. Minister, I believe all MPs from the ruling coalition, as well as the citizens of Serbia, that we are speaking with great attention to the arguments we make in favour of our claims. You have just proved that, therefore, that I was right and that you had to attract them and that the additional measures of the Government of the Republic of Serbia will suppress their behavior in the style of a wealthy drunk millionaire, billionaire, as they today have the manners to behave, here, this gentleman, later on, fellow Markovic, since he and I normally communicate, to find out what he calls himself from Serbia Kargo with those suits and the waste of money. On the other hand, you've given me an excellent argument to ask you a question. We had, I believe you remember, that was a month ago, the Law of Mail. We talked so much about it and went back to some period of Serbia 100 and a few years ago. So much, I pointed out, rightly, that I grew up in the mail, my father was always at certain executive functions in "Serbs of Serbia", as a chamber that gained that knowledge right after World War II. I was sorry to look at everything that happened a few days ago, it's just... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... And why is that? Because you said it yourself, and there is no colleague Petrovic, the data is 3.4 billion is a profit of mail for this year or for the previous year. Anyway, it's not a small profit. You tied your hands to the mail management and we knew exactly that would happen. Then there were all kinds of speculations about how mailmen, directors, managements came along, that they couldn't give an increase in wages that were otherwise feasible from the company's profits, but that all of this was happening. Then you show up as a savior, you make some arrangements and contracts, how it's going to happen, and how to calm them down, because really, please tell me, when it was that "Post of Serbia", here I don't remember a single time since I was born expressing my protest and my dissatisfaction in such a way. There is money, but you say well, the director of mail and management, here you are, paying that kind of profit in the Republic of Serbia's budget, give the possibility and raise that much and that much pay. At least they're not your risk, but stop the unfair competition that "Serb Mail" has. We are for every kind of free flow of goods and capital and investment etc. But what individual companies are doing again, they are destroying the "Post-Serbia" system that is an institution in this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67632	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 2nd amendment. The People's MPs Slavica Zivkovic, Dr Predrag Jelenkovic, submitted to the 3rd amendment together. Dr Ivan Bauer and Branimir Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? The word is Slavica Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67633	I thank the chairman. My colleagues and I, the SDPS, have submitted an amendment to Article 33. Proposal for a public debt law. Article 33 defines in detail the terms and conditions of borrowing of local self-government, as well as the conditions of obtaining the consent of the Ministry of Finance on the borrowing of local self-government. The truth that this Article 33 is significantly improved compared to the previous law, because we now have criteria and what is taken into account when giving consent. What, though, is controversial? The consent referred to in Article 1(1) shall be granted within 30 days of the date of receipt of the request for consent, and if the Ministry does not respond within the time limit set out in Article 4 to the request for consent, it shall be deemed that the consent is not given. We just asked that both a positive and a negative response be very clearly delivered to local self-government because we think it is very important and necessary. Local self-governments, although applying for opinions and having their own criteria, mean that they have assessed them according to some of their principles. The ministry should point out what it is to be considered inadequate, what it is they consider unnecessary and very clearly respond to local self-government. We also believe that this is very important because of the responsibility that local self-government has because criteria are very clear, the percentage of income performance and income compared to the planned percentage of expenditure, the expenditure in relation to the planned, the amount of the budget deficit planned, the level of unmistakable liabilities, the level of the existing credit debt, etc. Such a response by the Ministry of Finance would be very transparent and would serve those who control the work of local self-government if they had an insight into the overall responsibility and what it is that a certain municipality is not properly implemented. What are the criteria to be affected in the next period in order to overcome this problem and, of course, obtain conditions for next year to achieve some credit responsibility. It's very important because on the basis of the planned credit debt, budgets are being created for local self-government, and based on some amount envisaged, and then if you don't get an answer within 30 days, you're forced to rebalance, and of course you need some valid explanation. We think that this amendment would improve the existing Article 33, and that local self-government would greatly improve work, when we talk about more efficient work and somewhere more transparent insight into the business of local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67634	Thank you, colleague Zivkovic. The word is Dr Branimir Rancic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67635	I thank the chairman. Speaking of this amendment, I must say that local self-government in Nis, will not be in charge of building the mentioned payment ramps. One of the speakers, vice president of the DSS, and now an independent MP, as he began to praise the government's work and ministers in the government, I thought he preferred to become a member of the SNS, and that would be a good recommendation and reference if he thought to join the SRS. He changed the record later, and I can see that there's nothing to it. To explain, as far as these charging ramps are concerned, in order to speed up traffic through Serbia, the city of Nis will receive four smaller payment ramps. The existing Nais and Doljevac charging ramps will be removed after the end of the southern, or eastern arms of Corridor 10. It means one leg heading towards Skopje, south and east towards Dimitrovgrad, that is, Sofia. Why would these payment ramps be removed? Because they become a narrow throat when it comes to summer vacationers, or religious holidays such as Christmas and Easter. That way, there will be only four charging ramps in Corridor 10. One in Subotica, one in Old Pazova, one in Belgrade and one in Presevo. So, traffic through Serbia will take place quickly and uninterruptedly. For the citizens of Nis, who live in certain parts of the city, there is the possibility of getting the so-called "Nish". city maps and free tickets according to the model that exists in Belgrade for the citizens of Mladenvec and Grocke and Novi Sad. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67636	Thank you, colleague Rancic. My colleague Lapčević, Vice President Marinkovic, told me you have a basis for replication. I assume you picked up on that basis. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67637	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Rancic didn't understand me very well. I was just saying in favor of what he was saying. To speed up traffic in Serbia, to move one more step further, not to have four charging ramps on the Corridor, but only to be two. Entering the country and coming out of the country. So let's go one more step further to remove these two charging ramps that slow down traffic in Stari Pazova and Vrčino and make these lateral charging ramps, when the Belgrades are off on Autocommand or Obrenovac, or wherever, to New Belgrade, Zemun, there to be charge ramps, so that they are happy as we are in Nis, and then with the new payment ramps, that traffic goes even faster, as you said. That's the point of the whole story, to speed it up. All to speed up, to remove those fronts of the charging ramps, to introduce new ones, so that even these people from the Vozdovac and Vračar, on AutoCommand, on Mostar, there will be a payment ramp. All who pass through Belgrade will only walk, there is no need to stop at Old Paz, or Vrčino. Then we're all equal and we're all happy. It's best to speed up both business and citizenship, traffic, everything will be honey and milk. That's the ultimate goal.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67638	I thank my colleague Lapčević. Comrade Rancic, you want the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67639	I mean, I'm... I'm... I'm... We certainly wouldn't have had this problem with the Niš payment ramps if we hadn't made a highway through Serbia, Corridor 10, and this government did. The previous government in which the colleague mentioned it had participated it could have ended because they had a lot of money from the privatisation of the company. If they had ended it then, when the hard money from the privatisation of the company had been taken, they would have finished the highways and then they wouldn't have had a problem with these payment ramps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67640	I thank my colleague, Rancic. According to the amendment, the word is made by MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67641	I would like to thank the President, the Honorable Ministers of Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament. I want to look back on public debt, or share certain information with you. So, when we adopted the budget, Minister Sinisa Mali just said that, when we adopted the 2020 budget, we also discussed public debt. We could have heard some data. If we look at the earlier period, in 2008, the public debt rose from 8.7 billion to 17.7 billion dinars. At the end of 2018, public debt was 23 billion, but this is not an increase in debt, as public debt participation in GDP was reduced to 51.3%. If we look at the deficit in the 2008-2012 budget, the values ranged from minus 2.5 to minus 6.4%. Years after that, the public debt actually covered those deficits. The debt was 70% of GDP in 2014, and then it started to fall and it came to slightly more than 50% of GDP. So we could hear all this from Minister Cynthia Malo at a session where we talked about the 2020 budget and in fact, this data shows that our country's public debt is now under control and that the increase in public debt started in 2008. Now the finances are stable. This has much to do with the further development of our country, in absolutely all areas of stable finance. We're all aware of that. They mean new investments, new jobs, renewed and new schools, new kindergartens, better living standards for citizens. That was what the Serbian government was aiming at, which is what will continue to be the priority of the Serbian government, of course the SNS programme, and that is to make all citizens better. Speaking of units of local self-government, of course a stable republican budget also affects our local communities that thus create their own budgets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67642	I thank my colleague, Žarić Kovacevic. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Nikola Savic. Here you go, colleague Saviæ.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67643	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3 of this Law, by asking that, following Article 3 of this Law, a new position 4. Namely, what's this about? That position 4 should define the time limit of action required by local self-government. I asked that the deadline be no longer than 15 days, because we have a situation where the government's consent at the demands of local self-government is not respected at all. There are no rules here. We have some examples where neither a positive nor a negative response to the demands of local self-government has ever been given. Of course, it's about borrowing local self-government. Of course, I don't want to deny this that the government has to and should have insight into the duties of all local self-government because we know what we have on local, whatever people from any party, I'm not going to name now, run by local self-government and, of course, the government is the one who has to cut it off. But that thing can't and can't be delayed indefinitely, but it just needs to be prescribed a period within which this consent has to be given, and I say, I suggested that it be 15 days, and whether that deadline is positive or negative, that depends again on the criteria on which the government decides on that deadline. Now, since it is up to this Law on Public Debt, to use the presence of Minister Malo, to tell me – what are the biggest debtors in the Republic of Serbia when it comes to this debt?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67644	Thank you. The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. A colleague of Seselj, the deputy secretary, introduced me to the fact that the Vice President Marinkovic, in accordance with Articles 109 and 110, took the floor away from you and that measure is valid for today. The remaining time, i.e. the authorised representative of the parliamentary group, may be used by the deputy president of the parliamentary group. Thank you. On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's Messenger, the Prophet of Rade. Here you are, colleague Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67645	First of all, to draw attention, to everyone who thinks about how to position themselves on the future Wolf's list, they make wrong moves, believe me, I know a man. When it comes to this amendment and this law, I will say that it is the position of the Serbian Radical Party and that it is a pretty general opinion in Serbia, that this authority will remain remembered for three things. First, on the construction of highways and corridors. Second, because people with minimals and pensioners, a total of more than two million cannot live on the basis of their monthly minimum incomes or pensions, because it is much less than the cheapest consumer basket. The third thing this government will be remembered for is thieving, affairs, cabadias at the bar, destroyed by local self-government by illiterate personnel, bought diplomats, people who don't know how to do anything, who are only on the payroll, at work and don't come. As a result, when Ana Brnabic was the director of the NAD, she visited all local self-government, she persuaded them to take loans. Today local self-government, almost everything in Serbia, does not have enough to pay, let alone for some investments, because, according to the NALED order, they have been charged with abnormal loans, and these loans are mostly spent, i.e. by paying for the digitisation of local self-government by Aseko companies. What is the ratio of local self-government, here you have the report by Duško Pejovic, the state auditor, the local self-government did not charge 8.2 billion rents. So, the money's done. You have the money, you have the space, you leased it, but there's no charge of 8.2 billion. You know why? Not only because they're lazy, but because they're all being dumped, because there's no job that can be done in local self-government without seriously paying bribes, because you know how much legalization costs, how much a building permit, what it costs to build buildings with multiple apartments. You know, and that's the way it is in all of Serbia. All naked thieves to thieves.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67646	Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move on to the next item of the agenda, the search in particular - the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financial Terroristism. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Marijan Risticevic, Nemanja Sarovic, Natasa Sp. Jovanovic, Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović, Vjerica Radeta, Aleksandar Seselj, Sreto Perić, Ružica Nikolic, Ljiljana Mihajlović, Milorad Mirčić, Zoran Despotović, Petar Jojic, Miljan Damjanović, Aleksandra Belačić, Nikola Savic, Dubravko Bojić, Tomislav Ljubenović, Filip Stojanović and Dr Aleksandra Tomic. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Nemanja Sarovic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Natasha Sp, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the people's messenger Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67647	Mr. Minister, we've talked about this subject several times in this assembly session, because this is already not knowing what change and supplementation. What we have potentiald as Serbian radicals is that Serbia cannot comply with the demands of your foreign mentors or what to call them, those with whom you co-operate. First of all, we think of America and the Western forces that are asking us to accept those laws that they do not have in their countries and to apply them in the same way in Serbia. First, our argument for this should be that they, first and foremost, created the US and NATO Pact, the first cell, and then it spread, unfortunately, to threaten all of humanity, terrorists, by creating Bin Laden and his terrorist organization. What was their intention, and all the money flows had just gone to that side, to create a major problem in countries such as Iraq, later Syria, Libya, etc. Normally, all of this has become a big deal to them one day, but they do not stop with their policy, but they are still reportedly fighting terrorism and preventing money laundering, and they are the bearers of one such policy. What do we have as a problem in Serbia? That's what we were talking about when it was the so-called law. Public notebooks, notaries and the Property Act and other series of laws. The fact that all the money in the area of Serbia and, above all, through drug trafficking and in the Raška area, where we have directly potentiated the role of Rasim Ljajic as Deputy Prime Minister in all of this, from the terrorist gangs of the Cypriots in Kosovo and Metohija is not being checked in such a way as you ask every citizen of Serbia to open a foreign exchange account and to do so by banks, which in this way prevent any man who, on any basis, suspects that he has such an opportunity to use this service, and on the other hand, these public notebooks are certifying the purchase of real estate from washed money, from drugs, from crime, human trafficking and all others in the area of KIM. Here, most of all, Philip knows best, in contact with the Association of Gjilans from Nis, not only the Gjilans know it, but all others who have these associations, unfortunately, refugees from Kosovo and Metohija, what an inflow of money is from those recently Cypriot terrorists and villains who bought certain properties in Belgrade, in Zlatibor, Kopalnik, I don't know where they don't trade everything anymore. Now this is the whole farce, that we comply with these demands, that the banks check. Well, any one of us who has any foreign exchange accounts gets an annual statement that needs to be filled out by the end of the year that you don't have or have a relative who deals with that and that job. I know that my brother last year had to go, at the last minute that I don't live with, and I'm not in that family household for more than 20 years, but he's making these kinds of statements, and probably members of your families. Is that normal for you? No, and that's why we asked to delete the first member and remain members of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67648	Thank you. My colleague Jovanovic, I didn't want to interrupt you, but simply to introduce you that the SRS parliamentary group does not have the remaining time. Authorised representative and deputy president of the parliamentary group... The People's Messenger, the Witch of Radeta, throws it away. No, no problem. I'm just getting to know each other. National MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67649	This bill of law that they impose on you from the EU is something that will certainly not be applied, at least not to those who have serious money, who have gotten that money through various affairs, who have acquired that money, for example, marijuana in Gakov, in Jovanica, stealing money from the state budget, from those thieves at the bar who take between 10 and 15 thousand euros for each building permit from several apartment buildings, from what he took 20,000 euros from a man to put in a bakery trap that he plans to open and come to tear down his trafo station, says - well, I gave 20 thousand euros, they say - yes, but to the wrong man. So, all go thief to thief. Money, cash, they go back to those people. It will never be established how they are, or where they took that money, and we ask you, ministers and you, and you from the authorities who will vote for this, how do you control accounts abroad of thieves from your ranks? You're talking about some tycoons, known criminals, known names, etc. Ask around, and I'm afraid you know all the things that we know, maybe more than that, but ask yourself how many of you have at the bar who don't know what money is going to do, who are the people who are thieves, who can't even tell a good day without leaving some thousands of euros. It's local self-government, gentlemen, from your authority. Ask around, don't just listen to the ones you pay for the buses, the sandwich and the juice to come round and applaud. Come out a little wider than that and you'll hear what kind of thieves you're holding at the bar.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67650	The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Aleksandra Belačić submitted to Article 9 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Verica Radet. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67651	Why are you passing a law like this, among other things? Exactly because your thieves and criminals would stay away from the judicial authorities. You're here to predict that banks, that lawyers, that I don't know who can determine if the origin of any money invested in the bank is, you don't have the possibility, or that you've left the possibility of dealing with suspicious money by the authorities, and you have a law that needs to be implemented, the Criminal Code, and that through that law, through the application of that bill, it's determined that whoever is eventually, in some criminal way, came to the money, and not that some banker out there is asking me to call a third colleague that someone has to come to sign a statement because there's a functionator in a wider family. Where's the brain in there? But you're doing it so the D.A. doesn't get to the courts and the real story of problems, of crime, of your thieving, above all, of local officials, and not just local, God forbid. So you, open the affair and a few days in the media and what's the matter? Eat the cat. What happened to Cruise? Eat the cat. What happened to Jovanica? Hidden under the carpet. What happened before that with Gakov and 1,175 marijuana seedlings involving officials of Serbia's largest party, according to the media? What happened to that? You think just like that, it shows up and you're gonna talk about this or that and you're against building, you're against highways, and we're gonna keep quiet about your thieving. Why do these local cabads of yours get your ass kicked in the field? No one gets beat up for political reasons. They get beat up for taking money and not finishing the job for people.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67652	Thank you. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Dubravko Bojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67653	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is another draft law that would not be the subject of today's agenda if it weren't for the European Directive. Ladies and gentlemen, the SRS believes that most of these laws that are passed under EU directives are not applied in our legislative space, but it is more important for you to listen blindly and irrevocably to advisers, better say EU officials. You saw what they had in mind about the recent occupation of the television building when they stated in their statement that everyone has the right to express their protest, literally, give support and wind in the back to all those who do not want Serbia well. From this Europe that we do not go far into the great past how many times we have been lured, abused, I will begin only from what we all remember, from sanctions, criminal NATO bombing, kidnapping of Kosovo, NGOs, better to say anti-government organisations, European reckoning of time that was introduced in World War I as a strategy for saving energy. Then, the gay parades, then the lights on on the car in broad daylight, European working hours and such nonsense. I will list only the most drastic forms of money laundering, and these are primarily robbery privatisations, agricultural land purchases, and can anyone give me information on how many hundreds and hundreds of thousands of the most fertile agricultural land were purchased, or taken away and given to tycoons, as well as buying the most exclusive properties and building on them the most exclusive building facilities?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67654	Thank you, colleague Boyic. According to the amendment, the word has been made by MP Aleksandar Markovic. Here you go, colleague Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67655	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am truly sorry that one parliamentary group has joined the orchestrated campaign that they have been campaigning for weeks for Marinika Tepic Coban, or whatever her last name is, Bosko Obradovic, leader of that false patriotic movement Dvora, Miroslav Aleksic, and all others under the patronage of their boss, the Supreme Chief of All of them, Dragan Dilas. It is obvious that they gave in to pressure from N1 and other media controlled by Dragan Gilas and I am now truly expressing regret, I thought that such a thing would not happen, but here we have witnessed these days that one of the MPs has bowed down to this pressure and joined this brutal campaign led against, primarily, Alexander Vukic, but also other SNS officials. I don't know if it's nervous to know the latest public opinion survey that says the results are not favourable for some parliamentary groups and some political parties, but because of the citizens of Serbia, I have to say that it is therefore recycled texts from the "Tabloid" magazine and they know well, and those who bring such allegations here. Now they don't mind having a factory of various affairs, bringing it up here, doing a kind of campaign against SNS officials, and it doesn't matter what's possible, it's been denied a million times. So, a million times, all the competent institutions have been denied. I will only point out once again for Serbia's citizens, so on September 16th, the defence ministry is denying that Krusik is exporting weapons to Yemen. So this is the Ministry of Defence, this is the official institution of the Serbian state. On September 17th, Krusik denied the claims made by individual media regarding the purchase of weapons, the same media that some MPs here quote and amount to. We move on, since they even tried to disrupt relations between Serbia and Russia in their malicious allegations, we have the denials of the Ukrainians. Serbia didn't sell Ukrainians weapons to kill Russians. The embassy of Ukraine denied a directed provocation. So, this isn't anyone from the SNS said, this is what the embassy of Ukraine said, and because of the malicious allegations that we were selling weapons to the Ukrainians to kill the Russians. Finally, on 9 December of this year, the Anti-Corruption Agency issued an official statement and said - Stefanovic is not in conflict of interest. It is said that the Agency has established that Branko Stefanović, since the establishment of the company GIN, d.o.o. is not the owner, nor the legal representative, nor has he been employed or engaged in any of the bases of the ‘GIM’ company. It was also established that Branko Stefanovic was not even an insurance company insurance company, "GIM". So, everyone, absolutely everyone reacted instantly, denied all these allegations, but apparently it's not enough for some to stop the campaign, a brutal campaign directed against the SNS and the Serbian government and the Serbian president and everyone else. I am really sorry that one of the MPs gave in to this pressure by N1, "Today", "Time", NIN and all the other Gilas media and joined this campaign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67656	Thank you, colleague Markovic. Fellow Radeta, do you want the replica as an authorised representative at the exhibition of colleagues Markovic? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67657	I don't know what's weird, the only parliamentary group here that opposes the authorities is the SRS parliamentary group. The MPs, when they have no arguments, then withdraw their argument, Alexander Vukic. Well, we also want to help Vukic not to play Mother Teresa anymore, but to really do and to reconstruct the government, to put criminals away, to make some free space for the realisation of what he tells the people he wants to do. As for us kneeling in front of someone, that we look like someone, etc., so the gentlemen of power, the difference between you and those who aren't currently in the O.R., doesn't exist. You have the same attitude towards the EU, you have the same attitude towards the Brussels agreements, you have the same attitude towards the notaries. You have the same relationship with the perpetrators, the exact same relationship you have. They say -- you want to save the chairs to keep stealing. You say-- they want to get their hands on the chair again to steal again. So your chair is the same, only one says they're stealing again, and they say they keep stealing. Don't put us down, maybe we're the worst, maybe our ratings are much smaller than when they don't publish us at all, but don't put us where we don't belong. We're different from each other. We are the only real opposition and authorities and this pro-European part of the opposition, because both the government and the pro-European opposition are absolutely the same. That's why we have our own policy, I say maybe the worst, they'll see the people, they'll judge the people, but just don't put us where we don't belong. But, we understand, "Cruik" hurts, even the linings don't help. (Veroljub Arsic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67658	I understand, colleague Arsic, as an authorised representative of the SNS, you want a replica of Radeta's presentation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67659	He's sitting wrong, he's saying the right thing. “Kruik” is an imaginary affair, all of us who have served the army and who have participated in the war know that we distinguish a simple mortar grenade from a mortar grenade with an extra charge and why the army, which is a peace-doping one, buys ordinary grenades, but to explain it to some is not worth it. It's also not worth explaining what you want with this law on prevention and money laundering, because they don't understand what money laundering is. They don't know that. Here, let's say why there should be a public enforcement obligation to inform the Department of the Prevention of Money Laundering. Imagine someone who has money, who wants to put in legal flows, borrows a loan, buys a certain property or even an entire apartment building with that money, which is legal. He doesn't repay the loan, because he doesn't have the legal money to pay him back, the bank initiates a procedure to collect its claims, sends a bailiff, this guy registers the property, informs him that if he doesn't settle within 30, or I don't know how many days, that that property of his will be taken from him and will be subject to bid. When the executor comes to begin the procedure, that money which is illegal is handed over to the executioner, the credit has been returned, the money has been cleared, and now someone is opposed to the public executioner having an obligation to notify of such a transaction to the Directorate for the Prevention of Money Laundering, which would have examined, or may have raised another loan, or has some other legal income, on which basis he has paid off the previous credit, or has nothing and in principle is a classic money laundering. Not to say there could be a third person involved as helpers, so there wouldn't be a direct connection. There, that is the essence of one of these members to which the amendment has been submitted. But it's important to say that the government is a thief, that it's not a reform, that they do nothing, that everyone steals, etc., which is not true at all. We have proven that there are no untouchables before the law, and those who apparently want to harm reforms, let them try. They don't do any damage to reforms, they can't do that. They're just trying to hurt the citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67660	Thank you. The Right to Replica has the Faith of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67661	I don't know why you need this law when you're so honest. Arsic says we're stupid, so we don't understand anything. Okay, he's right, too. Veroljub Arsic: I said you don't know. No, no, we're stupid and we don't understand anything. But it doesn't matter. What will happen when someone can say that Krusik is a closed affair, that one way or another, when the prosecution informs the public that there is no room for prosecution or if there is, when the court says so, everything is fine? That's what the agency said, said that director of your agency, the one you were president of the municipal electoral commission, the one independent. Said Marco, said Janko. Come on, please, don't mock the institutions of the system. As for the perpetrator and this comment before the amendment came to the agenda, the SRS is against public enforcement. The Serbian Radical Party has submitted a new proposal for the Law on Executive Procedure and Implementation. We have submitted more than 100,000 signatures by the citizens of Serbia, who supported this idea of ours. And imagine power, imagine a ruling coalition that hasn't come to mind for three months to put a proposal on the agenda that supports more than 100,000 citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Well, wherever you go, wherever you go, you show that you don't respect the people. You don't respect the people, that's your basic problem. You don't care how the people live. You're pushing yours. He says we're honest. We're honest, we don't have untouchable ones. Well, where's your honesty if you're five or six years old, you put a man in some position? How did you judge that, so you set up a criminal? After five years of his thieving, you arrest him and you say there's no untouchable with us. They won't be untouchable to you when you don't set up like that, when you don't give your jobs for money, when the tycoons of local elections don't finance you at the bar, so they can do whatever they want.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67662	Thank you. The right to replica has Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67663	As far as this first part is concerned, nor did I mention that someone was stupid, I just said they didn't know. As for ideology, it seems to me that the SRS is for communism. It's obvious, and there's nothing I can do to justify them. When it comes to officials, people in office and people in general are corrupt goods, they can change, they can kneel. It's not controversial, it's happening everywhere in the world, so it wouldn't be in Serbia either. But one campaign against the president of the Republic of Serbia and SNS President Aleksandr Vukic is next. Since they can't find anything on Alexander Vukic, they've started criminalizing his family first, so they've involved all of his brother and his father, etc., not to list, and without any basis, to eventually go after his closest associates. There's now this affair that's about Krusik. Since even the closest associates, such as Nebojsa Stefanovic, can't find anything, they went after family members again, etc. To present a story that was in the 1990s about Slobodan Milosevic – he's great, he's like this, he's like that, but his family's bad. Now whether they had reason to do this or not, I don't want to go in, but today we have the same scenario in action, which is that SNS is criminalized, that all thieves, that thieves are party officials, that thieves are their family members, and that's the one we can't attack. The party's president will be torn down by the affairs we're going to tie to his closest associates, his family members and family members of his closest associates. That's how the former regime works, and now I see that's how the opposition works.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67664	Thank you, colleague Arsic. The People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophet, has the right to replicate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67665	Here I was, until a little while ago, convinced that Arsic took the mandate of the SRS and went after Tom Nikolic because he wanted to cover up some embezzlements that were working with the SRS account when it didn't. He's gone because we're communists. Oh, my God. As for this attempt to classify the SRS, I don't know who in the attacks on Vukic, the associates, the family, etc., firstly, no one from the SRS has ever attacked anyone from the Alexander Vukic family. Is that what it is? Is it ever someone's? (Vladimir Orlic: "Jovanjica". ) Being someone’s supposedly close friend, and you are certainly not well informed of how close a friend is, but we are not going to talk about it right now and who is an associate, and that is known, but you know that being a member of the government does not mean that he is untouchable. Why? So, there must be no doubt that it is required to question any doubt, because if the name of a member of the government is mentioned, do not give God Zorana Mihajlovic, now Nebojja Stefanovic, Rasim Ljajic, then whoever mentions it is against Vukic. No, I don't. Whoever mentions it, at least when it comes to Serbian radicals, is someone who wants to help the president of the state. We tell Vukić – if you see the thieves around you, ask Ana Brnabić to reconstruct the government... (Vladimir Orlic: Which means. )......................................................................................................... You take over from the Ministers who don't work, replace the Ministers who dirty your cheek, replace the Ministers who steal. That's what we're looking for, and you're the only one who jumps, you're the one who yells, you'll be uncomfortable when you find out some truths. (Alexander Markovic: Let's hear those truths. )
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67666	The right to replica has a People's MP... Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: Rules of Procedure. According to the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67667	You're allowed the Rules of Procedure and you respect it. Art. 107th and 27th. So, you respect, Mr. Milicevic, for now, the Rules of Procedure. I don't believe it, you're a member of the SPS, here, there's Mr Obradovic, just so they can talk to you, just like they've been chipping Marinkovic since this morning, so they can tell you -- let's make a move on, say the warnings. Alexander Seselj, a colleague, was taken from him, and he had not previously been warned. Were you aware of that? Yes, it is. It happened to me once. So, I sat next to the same model Gordana Komic, next to Gordana Komic at the post of vice president and she told me – I take away your word, and I didn't say the word. You've applied it here by breaking the Rules of Procedure, and now that we've heard these nervous colleagues, individuals, not all of them, of course, those who aren't sent out, so they're out there talking all sorts of things, so they're going to have the most likely concoctions within their SNS, then at the clear and precise exposition of their co-workers you're doing, they're roaring, roaring, and they're getting what they don't know. It would be better for you, gentlemen, to withdraw quietly, to carry out some within the party's consultation, to possibly invite the president of the party, Mr. Vukic, to give you a certain, yes, a number of instructions as to how you behave, because what you do and accuse the SRS of directly obstructing your president, who advocates to deal with crime and corruption, but first to clear it up in his ranks, and then to move on, and we, as people of very great political experience, never say anything in our minds. I guess Arsic should know, because he picked up some of it when he picked up that mandate.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67668	Thank you. My colleague Jovanovic, you ordered an injury. 107th and 27th. As for the first part of the exposure, he was going on the moment I wasn't in the O.R., so I couldn't comment. That's what you'll have to do with Vice President Marinkovic. As for the second part of the exhibition, you know that it is the legitimate and sovereign right of the MPs to speak and all have one broad aspect of seeing what is the subject. Sometimes we get away from the subject. I do not have the right to reduce and minimise time, i.e. to prevent democratic debate and democratic confrontation of opinion. On the contrary, I believe that everything should go in that direction towards a democratic spirit. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. I thank you. Comrade Arsic, come in. (Alexander Markovic: What about me? )
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67669	Someone said he wasn't in the affairs of members of President Alexander Vukic's family. I didn't mention "Jovanjica". To remind him of what he is, I can't call him a colleague, Alexic spoke here in the National Assembly – that the suspects in the production and trafficking of narcotics were called the President of the Republic's brother during the arrest. I didn't mention "Jovanjica". She mentioned the opposition. The ‘Cruik’ affair, etc. Now I don't want to get into it that everyone has a right. It's the prosecutor who's going to say if anyone has any basic doubts about the launch or not, but until the prosecutor says so, we're going to make a public story that they're all guilty. You know, what if the D.A. has already gathered information and is no longer considering continuing the procedure, he won't even plead, there's no need. He's got a legal right, he's got a legal obligation. It doesn't matter. We will call the Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia thieves again. A little while ago, we're jumping into our own stomachs, because no one's a thief until the court finds that out, and then we call the ministers thieves and ask the President of the Republic to replace the thieves from the ministers. That's what it looks like and that story that the former regime's been telling is now turning to opposition. The purpose of the campaign is, since they can't find anything on Aleksandra Vukic, to try to make up all the living members of his family, ministers from the SNS, members of the ministers' families, even the president's brother was mentioned. It means that all criminals, that Vukic is the only one who fights, but he can't because around him are all criminals to do some damage in some SNS elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67670	The People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophet, has the right to replicate. Here you go. (Alexander Markovic: What about me? )
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67671	I'm beautiful...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67672	Just a minute. I keep getting a question about when it's gonna be a turn. So I'll give you extra time. I'll turn it off, and you'll re-apply, but just a moment to clarify. So, the moment the dialogue between colleagues Arsic and Radet is completed, we will proceed according to the amendments. We have a series of registered MPs – Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic, Aleksandar Markovic, Igor Bečić, Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you are, colleague Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67673	First of all, I said well before some work hours ago, maybe more, that there are serious problems about trying to position the future Wolf's list and, again, I repeat, you're doing the wrong thing, I know the man, and you won't listen, so be it. Yes, he did, and I understand. Isn't that right, Mr. Mali? He said Vucic wants to rejuvenate the parliamentary group, wants to bring in 30% of young, clean and honest ones for future elections. I'm like someone who can logically conclude I think they'll drive 30% of the dirty and dishonest. Now the only thing I don't know is if he's going to wash them up a little bit so he can put them somewhere else or he's going to give them up completely, something I don't really care about very much, but it's definitely going to be some of it. So, all this stuff we've just heard has never been mentioned by any of us, but for Serbian radicals, no one has ever been a sacred cow. If we say someone was involved in some crime, then we know it pretty well. But what's interesting? He says -- a colleague, I don't know, we say this minister, that minister, very specifically just said -- must change Minister Rasim Ljajic, it must change Zoran Mihajlovic, it must change Zlatibor Lončar and change Nebojsa Stefanović, therefore, because of the affairs he is talking about, so anyone who is normal will get rid of someone, and even when it is proven that they weren't responsible for what they are being burdened with then they will be told - here we are, without burden, here we return again. That's how Bata Gasic was returned. So what? He was about two years out of office and came back. But what's interesting? He says to his colleague Arsic like this – please, until proven guilty, until the court has convicted him, no one can be said to be a thief. Of course, except for those that Arsic and his brothers say.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67674	I'd like to thank my colleague, Radet. Right on line, MP Veroljub Arsic. Here's a colleague of Arsic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67675	Everyone has the right to fight his political struggle as he believes it is best for him and his political party. However, what is said about positioning on the list, etc. It has nothing to do with life, but the only thing that bothers me in the National Assembly is when fellow MPs tell the truth, but it's no big deal when they're telling the truth because they don't know the truth. It is terriblely low, the loss of all morals, when you are telling the truth and you know that it is false. Then I answer the word and tell the truth that even those who know they're telling the truth would at least get the answer and know the next time they're telling the truth that they're gonna get the answer again.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67676	I thank my colleague Arsic. Right to the replica of the People's Messenger of the Faith of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67677	This was some kind of philosophical review. I was just thinking he'd start writing columns as a colleague of Djukanovic. You know, the most I've learned about what I'm saying here is just reading Djukanovic's column and listening to his show, but how can a colleague tell us that he doesn't mind us running some of our own politics. In the name of father and son, does he think we should be looking for... Thank you, Arsic, if we have to ask for consent, so you let us. He says he's talking about losing his morale. The loss of morals is said by Arsic, Veroljub Arsic, who did the most unethical thing in political life, which stole the mandate of the SRS and went to another party. Whenever anyone here wants to tell Marinika Coban that she's a flyover, that she's changed five parties, which is, of course, more than immoral, and in such situations, Arsic always comes forward to say something to cloud the flyover of Marinika Coban, and now he's wondering who Arsic's working for?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67678	Thank you. Comrade Arsic, do you want a replica? Just a minute. I will have to delete the reported in the system, but simply colleagues not to worry, I will repeat the order once again after the cycle of replicas – Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic, Aleksandar Markovic, Igor Bečić, Neđo Jovanovic. These are fellow MPs waiting to speak according to the amendment. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: What amendment? · Global Voices ) On the amendment of my colleague Dubravko Bojic. Here's a colleague of Arsic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67679	The parliamentary mandate shall belong to the Members of Parliament. It was an earlier madness that the parliamentary mandate was lost even by the end of membership in the political party, and the lists could also be submitted by groups of citizens. How do they end their mandate? It's this ideology of an imperative mandate that the SRS is trying to carry out. No one in Serbia is interested in my 2008 mandate, absolutely no one, nor interested. I offered to take it away from me in the elections because I won it in 2012 and 2014 and 2016 and failed to take it away from me from the SRS. Therefore, it turns out that I was right when I did not give them back the mandate because the citizens supported the policy that Alexander Vukic and Tomislav Nikolic led at the time and later Aleksandar Vukic proved to have confidence, that they were essentially the owners of our mandates, but in the next elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67680	I thank my colleague Arsic. Right to the replica of the People's Messenger of the Faith of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67681	I hope in a democratic manner that, since you're talking about the conclusion of the replica, it will be now. I'm going to say it very briefly. I'm kidding about the replica. We can have it by tomorrow morning. I don't have a problem. Now listening to what my colleague said, I don't think anyone in power can, it wouldn't be necessary for anything to say to Marinika Cabanu, Sandy Raskovic Ivić, a Diana who has already been forgotten by the whole world and these flyers stealing mandates. It's simple, it's not moral. As far as this finding is concerned, Arsic is right. He said just now - my mandate, I think Arsic's mandate, no one cares anymore. Well, I've been trying to tell him he doesn't care about Wolfie all day. That's his problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67682	My colleague Radeta, of course I had no intention of completing and terminating the replica, I had already said – the moment the dialogue ended that I would allow my colleagues to speak according to the amendment, which I am about to do right now. According to the amendment, Professor Marko Atlagic first has the word. Here you go. The next one is Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67683	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen People's MPs, concerning the amendment, I will only say one example in the context of what my colleague was saying and about these affairs whose actor, Dragan Gilas, and not only him, but certain foreign centres of power before him. I warn you, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, it's not such a harmless thing. Let me just say two facts irrefutable, which is that in 2018, Dragan Gilas visited a country across the sea twice, where he negotiated the destruction of power in the Republic of Serbia, but not in the elections, but in the street and bloodbath. Right after he returned to the country one of his peytos, and this is Janko Veselinovic, a resident, said in 11 September 2019, to see how much this relates to foreign factors, the quote reads like this, Janko Veselinovic, a resident – after a boycott, ask for new elections, a direct turn of the army and police to the apartment of protesters and opponents of the regime, finished the quote. Dear citizens, I am speaking to you about the Republic of Serbia, after a first visit to one of the overseas countries since 2018, Dragan Gilas in a people called Điki Mafia, and in Europe Dragan Gilas. Those from the Alliance for Serbia and agreed that their MPs leave the parliament of those he bought for money in this high house, as well as council members in local parliaments. Here, dear citizens, I speak to you, not those who laugh at what he said now, and for these quotes, it is morally appropriate. A quote -- if we leave parliament and throw out Parliament's dialogue, then as a society, we have a problem. That's where they talk. If we stop it, if we stop the media, be careful, then they'll explode, give some sense, complete quote. Dear citizens, I speak to you, you see who has been creating affairs these last six months, a year. And finally, after the Giki Mafia saw that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia had seen it and read it, he continued to attack his country and parliament by writing letters to foreign centres of power, foreign factors, so yesterday he wrote one in which he muds this high parliament as an institution and a state of Serbia. Mr. Gilas, in a Europe called Gilas, invite these bought-out MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, so answer, did you, Mr. Gilas, in Europe called Gilas in 2011 unlawfully political pressure through Branko Radjujka, alienate "Telecoma of Serbia" 7.7m euros in favour of your company "Arena Sport" on behalf of four cable channels, if you do not say so. But I say it is and I will bear any responsibility if you want both moral and political, but you will never answer that, but unfortunately, neither will the DA. And, in the end, you are rightly respected fellow MPs from the SNS when you said that you have been criminalized for days and months by the President of the Republic and his family. It's done all the time. It's done from hour to time and yesterday it's done, and allow as a man a historian, who follows certain phenomena, to say at the end of this sentence. Dear citizens, never in the new century, which means from the birth of Christ to this day, and it has been 2,019 years, never so offended by one's parents as one yesterday by the parents of President Alexander Vukic, a newspaper called charlatan. I'll talk about it in particular, I hope these days talk about it. I am withdrawing once again never and never in the recent history of Serbia and in the new century since the birth of Christ to this day has done a single president of any country in the world, but as one journalist wrote a letter yesterday to the parents of President Aleksandr Vukic. That is, you are right, Mr. Arsic and Vlado, Dr. Vlado Orlic, when you say that the most important family of Alexander Vukic is now being satanized, but the citizens have read it well and rejected these disgusting lies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67684	Thank you, Professor. Atlagic. According to the amendment, the word is made by MP Igor Becic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67685	The Honorable Chairman, when it comes to affairs that are being constructed around the dedicated industry and about "Jovnica", is my view that this is all planned and elaborated in one centre. Circumstances in both affairs intertwined various interests, but the common interests of several factors also coincided. Often, when journalists ask me these days, I refrain from saying, for the simple reason that I am legally obliged not to speak as chairman of the Security Service Control Committee, and on the other hand, I have knowledge that directly refutes claims so-called. opposition leaders. A complete affair over the dedicated industry and arms trade came just as our dedicated industry became a serious competitor in the arms market. You know, not so long ago, those factories were leveled to the ground and no one believed they'd recover. We managed not only that these factories were rebuilt and equipped. Today, these factories became a serious competitor in the world and began to conquer new markets. It seems to me that's the essence of the problem and that's the cause of the outbreak of this affair. It has been repeated repeatedly that no exporter can export arms and military equipment without consent from five state authorities and without certificates of end-user. Our businessmen respected this law. We as a state are not responsible for what happens to weapons when we take it out to the ultimate user who is legitimate. The responsibility then moves on him and he is obliged to respect the guarantees given. For all of this, I believe that this affair has been constructed and that it is now exploited for entirely other reasons that are multilayered. On the one hand, you have a competitive side of the company to which this goes, and at the same time their production starts to grow at rapid speed, while on the other hand this affair is being used to weaken President Vukic's positions in the follow-up of dialogue. As a result, I repeat several times that these attacks on the closest associates and the family of Alexander Vukic are actually attacks directed exclusively at the weakness of his family. In that sense, the case of "Jovanja" is being constructed in an affair involving President Vukic's brother, who has been resolved by the MUP, and those in the opposition have admitted to lying. I must tell you that recently as a Committee, we have been under surveillance in security services and, in accordance with my powers as chairman of the Committee, I have asked members of the agencies for information on these cases. From what I could hear under the law, I must say that I am fully convinced of the untrueness of these attempts to defile Andrej Vukic, and I am quite certain that the only goal is to place these lies, to deal with Alexander Vukic. What is actually frightening, and what citizens must understand, is that in their hatred tycoon Đilas, the white-world swindler Jeremic and their stalker Obradovic do not cease to attack President Vukic at the moment when VMA doctors stabilize his health status. Through their power centers, they draw targets and place snipers on the cover of certain Sundays and tabloids, and yet again in order to cover up their looting affairs that were meant to receive a court epilogue in the coming period. The only thing they want is to cause instability in Serbia, to come to positions of government without a choice. This is not only about the attack on Vukic as a political leader, but also about trying to undermine the post of president of the state, about the destruction of Serbia, and that is unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67686	I thank my colleague, Becic. Dear People’s MPs, agreed on 27th and Article 87, pages 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. According to the amendment, the word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67687	I thank the chairman. In view of the fact that the respected colleague, Bojic, has affirmed some of the issues related to the application of the law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing, I must draw attention to the extreme importance of this law, so that critics have no basis for criticism of this law when it comes to what is to be pointed out in this law as good and practically applicable solutions. First of all, it needs to come from something that's very important. With this law, the Republic of Serbia, i.e. by adopting this law, the Republic of Serbia harmonizes its legislation with EU legislation. Without this harmonisation and without this harmonisation, it's hardly possible to find ourselves on the same path, difficult to achieve the same goals, and our goals must be the same, which is to recognize the most dangerous anti-law acts, the most dangerous crimes, such as money laundering and terrorist financing, given the fact that terrorism today is a monster that surpasses literally the entire globe. What is important to point out when it comes to the application of this law are provisions relating to those most directly involved in the identification of forms or forms which can guide the possibility of counter-action in terms of the prevention, i.e. money laundering and financing of terrorism. Who, in particular, appears as the main factor who can locate it in time and at the same time initiate appropriate proceedings before the competent judicial authorities, particularly in front of the prosecution, and later, of course, with regard to the prosecution and the court? In particular, they are public notebooks, or notaries, while they are in EU countries and notaries and lawyers. Lawyers for the specificity of doing work that is far, far different nature and different form, and especially far more extensive content than we have. It is logical that both have one unique role, which is to defend against these two very dangerous phenomena or anomalies, and these are phenomena where individuals appear as possible or potential perpetrators of illegal acts, i.e. illegal acts, in the form of money laundering, or terrorist financing. Unfortunately, in Serbia, given that I belong to this branch, I have to say that the appearance of public notebooks has led to the devastation of attorneys and legal solutions have in some way affected that such a phenomenon is deepening because the public notebooks have led to the fact that the lawyers are marginalized, that the attorneyship of one act that is highly respected and respected comes down to a level that the lawyer does not deserve, and in any case we have to fight to ensure that both work, that both professions must be respected and respected. In a particular case, I do not want to put this discussion as a criticism of public notaries, because we are talking about the subject in which public notebooks are and how, from the point of view of the work that they are doing is important, that is, their importance is great in recognising the ability to appear in the form of terrorist financing and money laundering in time, or identify, so that they can later be warned, or so that those who are directly involved or guilty of such acts can be sanctioned. What does that mean? This means that public notebooks, when it comes to corporate law, are not yet, and in this direction we have to work, are not yet authorized to solemnize, or confirm, company contracts. What can it generate? It can generate a very dangerous phenomenon. If someone is not authorised, i.e. I apologize, obliged to look at the content of the company contracts, i.e. contracts between two companies, two legal entities, two entities, it is in these contracts that certain elements can be covered, certain features which can undoubtedly indicate the appearance of money laundering and the emergence of terrorist financing. Therefore, public notaries in this direction must be given not only powers but also obligations when such contracts are concerned that the literally content of the contract is observed in a way that implies the identification of the elements, i.e. the marking of the contract where these unlawful phenomena are contained or possibly hidden. In Europe, notaries have received such powers, i.e. they do not, but must, have an obligation to recognise, through the content and analysis of the content of the company contracts, such anomalies, i.e. pre-warnings or to prevent further consequences that may occur in the event that such contracts are not identified in the manner in which I indicate them. As far as law enforcement is concerned. A lawyer in Serbia has a narrow, small maneuvering space, so that it can function in this way. The lawyer fought in time four years ago to hold on to the powers that are the names of the lawyers. The composition of contracts that will later be able to be declared by public notebooks. At one point, there was even a danger of being exempt from the law and being transferred to the authority of public notebooks. Then there would be a complete devastion of the lawyership, which, anyway, I call this one, by the tendency of work and something that public notebooks are doing, has already been brought into one situation of complete degradation. What seems very important to me is the fact that in Serbia, Serbian citizens can recognise where possible opportunities, appearances or forms of money laundering, and hence the possibility of funding terrorism. One of those is construction. Indeed, in this area, in the area of construction and large complexes, complexes that relate to numerous tourist sites in Serbia, although I do not want to label them as places where crimes are really committed, there is the possibility that some of the basics of doubt are bound to this particular part, because in construction, a huge amount of money is concentrated, where potential investors, of course, those who are extremely professional, responsible, committed, honest, who are doing their job are excluded from this possibility that I point out. But there's always a danger that those who come from money can't prove, where the origin of money is suspicious, and that a huge amount of money flows right where money laundering is the easiest thing to do. It's building buildings, building apartment complexes, building hotels, etc. Since contracts in the area, when it comes to immovableity traffic, when it comes to joint construction, when it comes to arrangements for property relations between investors and immovable property owners, are confirmed by notaries. Notaries have a huge obligation to look closely at the content of these contracts, eventually locate the possibility of money laundering and react to it. How will they react? By filing adequate reports. I have to affirm in this direction one notary activity which, as the distinguished minister pointed out, has proved to be very useful, which is that the notaries submitted 230 applications in 2018 due to suspicion of money laundering and possible terrorist financing. In this year, those applications were 87. So there's activity. Is that activity enough? Of course not. Should it be more intense? Of course you should. But in that case, we have to have some kind of obligation to systematically edit and put the notaries in charge to check literally all contracts, not just contracts when it comes to the traffic of immovableity and what I have pointed out, but literally all contracts, especially contracts when it comes to, as I just said, trade or company law. Why? Because between companies there is often a conclusion of legal transactions where there is a reasonable doubt of the ability to launder money. Therefore, to protect the state, to protect the legal order, to prevent terrorism as perhaps the greatest danger in the world, it is logical to literally address these issues and to pay due attention to all powers and powers in a proper manner. Not only when it comes to notaries, but also when it comes to lawyers, courts and prosecutors, etc. All in all, in the end, I want to point out that what is at the very beginning of the debate under all these proposals of the law is said, the SAA and our parliamentary club unreservedly support this legislative activity, that is, the process of passing laws that are of exceptional importance, not only for the Republic of Serbia, but also significantly broader, because by harmonising our laws, domestic legislation with EU legislation that already has a rich experience in recognising money laundering and preventing terrorism, it is logical that we need to get closer to these standards, it is logical that we have to accept these standards, it is logical to implement these standards and do so now and in this direction we give full support to this set of laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67688	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. According to the amendment, the word is made by MP Boban Birmancevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67689	The respected chairman, respected ministers, respected colleagues, respected citizens of Serbia, is extremely important to support the prevention of money laundering from all levels and from the level of government and from the level of the National Assembly, but also from the level of any organisation of any society and of course of every individual. The prevention of money laundering must be supported for the reason that in every segment of our society, until the arrival and takeover of power in 2012 everything that was done was management towards withdrawing money from the budget, the withdrawal of money from the pockets of Serbian citizens and the hard work that Alexander Vukic took in 2019, when we look back, gave serious results. One way is certainly by condemning those who dared to put their hands in citizens' pockets. One such is the mayor of Sapca, one of them is Dragan Gilas, leader of the team called Together for Serbia, western Serbia, all together against Vukic or as they are already called the Alliance for Serbia. There is a big problem in their Alliance for Serbia. They made some kind of contract, says the deal with the citizens. But there's one huge flaw in their contract, and that's that there's no other side, there's no other side in the contract with the citizens. The citizens don't want a deal with them, they don't want any deal with them, and they don't want to support them under any conditions. In order for a contract to be valid, there must be two sides, and in their case the other side does not exist, and those other parties are citizens, they don't want a contract with them, they don't want any support and any deal with that thieving crew. Why hasn't Dragan Gilas been arrested, when everyone knows very well that the 25m-euro income, which he has reported neatly, has naturally been obtained in an illegal manner? What about what he didn't report, and what about those who did with him here, mildly speaking, a thief's crew? Can Dragan Gilas influence witnesses? You got it. Can it affect prosecutors? You got it. Can it affect the judges? You got it. For this reason, a serious problem is how to expose this octopus that Dragan Gilas has spread over the years of government implementation and leadership, which he has been appointed to, above all, to the people who were with him and who, after the break-up of the DS, split into 15, 16 or some countless number of parties. There is also his main puppet at this time in his puppet theatre, which is Nebojsa Zelenovic, who with five million who has abused from the budget of the town of Šapca, is an amateur thief, but for the citizens of Šapca it is a serious abuse and confirmation that we are fighting corruption, that we are fighting those who steal from citizens is also the judgment of the Greater Court in Sapac. The Sabak mayor, as the citizens of the mercy call him -- a green thief was convicted by a senior court ruling in Sapac that he was guilty of abuse of the fivem-euro budget. What is good is this verdict to Mayor Zelenovic at the same time is the verdict of his leader and leader Dusan Petrovic, and at the same time there is a verdict to the entire city administration that was not innocent in their abuse of the 2015 budget. This is also the verdict of Parliament President Pajic and the head of the parliamentary group and deputy president, or Deputy Mayor Kostadinovic, who is at the same time president of the DS Executive Board. It is this judgment that shows that justice is still available. It's very interesting and I'll read it, I don't think the citizens know it at this point – out of those five million euros in 2015, 42,585,000 dinars were spent without public procurement. One mayor's memory is that 42,585,000 dinars are spent without public procurement, 31,840,000 dinars spent without a contract, without any paper to support the payment of 31,840,000 dinars. Even 89,741,000 dinars were spent without valid documentation and without any paper to support that payment. So we're talking about an organized abuse that was discovered by the DRI. What I would ask exactly the finance minister is that a budget inspection that certainly does its job, but which is relatively small in relation to the number of budgets that need to be controlled. Budget control is certainly a control of the spending of money on Serbian citizens and attention should be paid to budget control. It is these people who have abused the state budget, who have misused the funds of Serbian citizens, who are threatening the president of Serbia, who precisely thanks to the voices of citizens called Aleksandar Vukic, and it is also called Aleksandar Vukic because they wanted Serbian citizens to do so. The threat to the president is a threat to the citizens right now. But what's good, citizens know who's who in Serbia, they know who Alexander Vukic is, and they know who that is, and they will vote in the next election accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67690	Thank you, colleague Birmanchevic. On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67691	The Directorate for the Prevention of Money Laundering every year, Mr. Minister, you know it well, publishes a brochure that it indicates as one study that everything is possible to launder money and what are the money flows in Serbia that are illegal. However, the government of the Republic of Serbia is proposing this law and directly supports money laundering from if you want terrorist activities and all other activities undermining the constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia. We talked about this several times, and colleague Alexander Seselj asked you a question in the day to ask questions, and you did not react and you did not think twice this year in 2019, when these NGOs are working on the head and president of your party, and therefore both the president of the state and are directly going to undermine the constitutional order of this country. What you will do more than when you include them in some negotiating process with these pro-Western parties, both Soros and who knows how to finance everything, to discuss with them the conditions and the electoral procedure, the Law on Elections and all other circumstances under which the election cycle will be implemented. I must remind you, those of you who read and follow, Mr. Minister should know that in 2016 Vladimir Putin proposed and the Russian Duma passed a law prohibiting such NGOs and their activities. You must not even say the words, how afraid you are and shake them in front of them, to say the words. If that were not the case, you would have given them resistance, and you would have said, "Who are you that you come to us here?" They're being funded, you all know it, and it's easy to verify, it's this NGO that's money that's everything, but it's not pure money. It's money that comes from various funds and from various sides, from America and other Western censors of power and serves that purpose that in the way they think and how they treat and imagine Serbia as some kind of banana state, that this is how an election cycle is conducted, that your orders, pucks, etc. are issued.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67692	Thank you, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67693	So, Mr. Minister, it would be good, here's what I'm going to do, after you've accepted this suggestion, to get in writing a report on the business of public enterprises in Serbia, to give us a report on money flows. Not what you in the budget have to do with the Department of Money Laundering, with the National Bank, with everyone to have direct communication under official duty, to get a report from where they all get money, from which sources, and NGOs.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67694	Thank you. National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to the 16th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, colleague Stojanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67695	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Ministers with Associates, I have tabled an amendment to Article 16. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing. With my amendment, I asked for the mention of a member to be deleted. This is one of those laws that is passed by EU order. So, the same EU that financed terrorism at KIM. The leading countries are still the main sponsors of the illegal so-called. the countries of Kosovo. And they don't just do it on KIM, they do it all over the world, where they think they have interests. The example is many - Syria, Libya, Iraq and many more. The leading Western countries, headed by the United States, well know that many individuals from Kosovo and Metohija and Bosnia and Herzegovina are still going to various battlefields around the world today, where they participate in terrorist actions. Is that why these countries called Kosovo authorities? Of course not. They continue to support them and oppose Serbian interests. With this law, the state of Serbia will not essentially solve anything in terms of its security. On the other hand, we can only draw the wrath of some of our favored peoples and states, because we blindly follow the pro-Western policy in this area. That's why it's best that this government withdraws this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67696	Thank you, colleague Stojanovic. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 19th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The National MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 20 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to Article 21 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67697	This is quite amazing what is foreseen in this Article 21, to amend Article 24 and to add written statements from the party in the toy, to which the party, under material and criminal responsibility, declares that it participates in gambling for its account and its name. So is this really working? Do you think this is possible? First of all, how much trouble there is in these gambling games at all, about those bookies, their origins, who holds, how they hold, who pays taxes, how they don't pay taxes, etc. All this Mr. Minister knows well and we are confident that he and those problems in the future will solve. But it's really amazing that someone's going in to buy a vine or some instant game of chance, that they need to legitize and still sign a statement that they're doing it for their own account. So, not only this member, but at all, we don't need this law, for one simple reason, and this isn't the only law we don't need, this different fight against corruption, the agencies, so what you're planning and announcing the origin of the property, etc., it's all excess laws, respecting the fact that we have courts, that we have criminal law, that we have the opportunity to have every suspicious transaction, every suspiciously acquired property, that this is beautifully cleared in court, that the court rightfully decides whether something is in accordance with the law or not. What isn't, to be taken away. The one who acquired something from the crime scene, that would be a criminal response. The one where it's all clean, to keep living normally, and not to have a million laws, the papacy of law, no courts, no prosecutions, and then, of course, the consequences, the papacy on the ground.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67698	Thank you. On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 26 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 30 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 30 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 32 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Dr. Aleksandra Tomic submitted to Article 34 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 36th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 37th amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Here you go, colleague Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67699	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister with Associates, this law is not in accordance with the Criminal Code of the Republic of Serbia. Namely, the criminal law of the Republic of Serbia details what is a crime of money laundering. But if you'll allow me, ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to start from the beginning, from the dark 90s. And how they wouldn't be dark when we were isolated from the whole world. It was done by democratic states, and that's how they kept us in isolation for 10 years. They say it was communism, and that's why we suffered sanctions, until they prepared a democratic society in the SRJ that would take this country out of the crisis. Now, in order to make sure that democracy is going to rule, they forced us into, of course, cluster bombs, but with the poored uranium. They say, "You are a poor land, but you have earned such bombs. Those Democrats were not enough just bombings, but occupied by the Autonomous province of Kosovo and Metohija. Someone says it's our cradle, and they say, "What do you need a cradle for when you're adults?" Or We will give you to your father, Solan, who will salt your mind and your mother Del Ponte, who will lead the disobedient children to The Hague to kindergarten. Then our Democrats made a mini revolution and took over the government and immediately stormed into the banks where the money was. If they were written and skilled, it can be seen that they didn't enter the shoe factories or the shoe stores. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Republic of Serbia has its own criminal legislation, the Republic of Serbia has customs laws, the Republic of Serbia has the Law on Construction, the Republic of Serbia, therefore, has many laws that regulate this area. This is where jurisdiction gets intertwined when it comes to the Criminal Code and the Money Laundering Act, and money laundering due to terrorism. You see, it's not clear what the courts are doing or what the prosecution is doing, what the criminal service is doing. All you have to do is question the construction industry that's involved in crime. The criminal service is strong enough to be able to carry out detailed checks on what it does and to prosecute, file criminal charges, a public prosecutor's indictment and a court to judge.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67700	Thank you, colleague Jojic. Honorable Members of Parliament, in accordance with Article 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I now set a break of one hour. We continue work at 3:10 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67701	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. Member of the 38th Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67702	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, the minister said a few things today that aren't exactly true. He said investors are coming to Serbia for predictability, because they know about our stability, and so on, and I'm interested in what predictability is when the president, then the prime minister's candidate, says that he will certainly not cut pensions whatever happens, that savings will be made elsewhere, and that he will be removed from our coat of arms rather than taken from pensioners, and after three months, pensions and salaries will be reduced. What kind of predictability is that? Secondly, the fact is that investors from abroad come to Serbia exclusively for subsidies and for cheap labour, and we could see that at the time while Mr. Mali was mayor of Belgrade, the Republic of Serbia funded a CNN video, where it was advertised as a country of cheap but highly educated labour and urged investors to invest in Serbia. So that's how it was, cheap and highly educated workforce. I think it's enough that what the progressors said about themselves, that's enough, about what they think about the value of the labour force in Serbia. We compare ourselves with some countries that also grant subsidies. That's right. They all do, but there is only one difference between whether someone will come to us or come to Macedonia or come to Albania or anywhere, only someone who pays more in the workplace. Nothing else. Not because of the regulation, not because of the economic environment, so only who gives more money in one job. Your predecessor, Mr Vujovic, recently said, as a World Bank expert, he is now engaged in Ukraine, that Serbia with this subsidy model will reach the level of the EU's most developed countries only in 250 years, and that if they are taps in place. So, by saying your previous, former finance minister in the Progressive Government, I don't know if you agree or not, but I don't know why one man could lie like that, if he wasn't right, and the advances chose him twice as finance minister? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67703	Member of the 40th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67704	We used this amendment to, above all, draw attention to public executioners. You've predicted here, in this article, lawyers and asking for information from a lawyer, or a public notary. We've added public executioners because, you know, there's no dirtier money than the ones that make public executioners, because they take abnormal amounts of money on the torture of their own people, because they leave people without an apartment and on the street. We, our parliamentary group, have tabled a proposal to put aside the existing Law on Executors, Implementation and Security, and have submitted a whole new draft law on executive procedure and security with the aim of returning the entire enforcement procedure to the jurisdiction of the courts. Most importantly, we have submitted more than 100,000 signatures from Serbian citizens who supported this idea, and it is truly amazing for us that the assembly majority is not responding at all to something that wants 100,000 and more than 100,000 of our citizens. Even yet, as far as we don't have feedback yet, our proposal hasn't been delivered to the government of the Republic of Serbia, so let's see, let's hear what the government has to say on this subject. It's just that everybody just shut up, like nothing happened, like there's no such thing as no more than 100,000 signatures, and that's why we use every opportunity, well, here, through this law and wherever we can, and through the amendments, to draw attention to something that's really bad, what public executioners are doing, and that's robbing people, leaving people on the street, without a roof over their heads. This really must be stopped most urgently by accepting the SRS proposal and passing a whole new law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67705	The 41st amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 41 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 46 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 50 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67706	The Serbian Radical Party opposes this proposal as well as the whole of the law, but this member is truly amazing and there were words about it and announcements that something like this will happen and bring it into the public as well. Very negatively accepted by Serbian citizens, businessmen, among all those who have safes in banks. Since 1 January 2015, the National Bank has had an insight into the accounts of all Serbian citizens, by then amending the law. They denied that there could be no abuse of that data, but in practice it proved different and certain reports were filed. As the Personal Data Protection Commissioner has cited in his reports in all state institutions, so could the National Bank of Serbia. But this, that you safes that are located in commercial banks and where citizens keep their valuables, their money, businessmen, too, who rent safes in banks, are now giving elections to the National Bank of Serbia, it's really amazing. This is, as far as we know, still a free country. Each of us has the right to choose a business bank with a current, foreign exchange account, through which he will receive profits and all other activities that the banking sector provides to carry out. How can you now, by such a provision of the law, tell those citizens that they did not choose to do so, the National Bank of Serbia will be a hat on everyone and have insight and register, to run all the safes in Serbia? Simply, you think that's how you're gonna stop it, and that's all in the context of your fight against terrorism and money laundering. You won't, because that road is wrong. The one who launders money, who uses money, possibly from terrorist activities, is the one who will never be in the safes of any commercial banks to hold their capital or any valuables, but will be laundered in another way, through the dirty jobs and investments that you need to pay.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67707	Member of the 51st Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Dubravko Bojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67708	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I have already said, and I will repeat that this bill would not have been the subject of today's session if it hadn't been for the European directive. There are here at the heart of the amendments and the addition of laws where 73 members are intervened, so the SRS' opinion here was to go to a whole new law, not to make this much more ticks. But here, he played a crucial role and bestowed on the European Committee, as standards are constantly changing in Europe in this area. Money laundering and terrorist financing are two criminal phenomena that are in big expansion and are easily lost, especially in the poor environments. These criminals, with their capital, move quickly and easily and change locations. They keep finding new and new forms of hiding their criminal origins of money, especially its purposes. I've already said that terrorism is hard to predict. You saw yesterday in Moscow, which is a very safe city, that with Kalashnikov's terrorist, he approached Russian security forces and shot members of the Russian Security Service. Ladies and gentlemen, our state environment is quite greedy and tended to use money most often from drugs for terrorist action. Not by chance for these intentions from these premises recruited for various actions in Iraq, Ukraine, Syria and elsewhere. The national focus must be on making and updating analyses, risks and risk assessments of money laundering and terrorist financing at national level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67709	The amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric to article 52. Does anyone want a word? National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 55th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67710	Mr. Minister, it's not strictly connected to someone who launders money, which is a tried-out method through various types of machinations, will also fund some terrorist activity, but that's why it's a crime. Your colleague Jojic just told you that everything regarding such activities must be codified through the Criminal Code, and this law is not in line with these assumed activities listed in individual members of the law. Now for you one question, since you are present here today, a few days ago we launched an affair and the possibility of using money, so that money is laundered through alleged legal projects financed by the state of Serbia from the budget, and the project is nowhere to be found. There was this in KIM during Kostunica's government, here is Arsic, who witnessed that time, where numerous abuses were committed, public money pumped up for projects, those were the great Serbian patriots Vojislav Kostunica, individual MPs, who were like hospitals, schools, some other things and none of that. You get there, there's nothing there. A certain Srdjan Mitrovic of Gjilan, who is the president of the municipality, or municipal council, came to realize that he and his family will wash state money. He founded, imagine, as in KIM, Gjilan, where people one survive because of the Shiptar terrorism and the world that happened 20 years ago, to establish a fruit cooperative called Ice Fruit, which will receive money from the KIM Office, as well as from the Cypriot so-called. Governments, and they will work there—a member of the council who is his brother, then his wife, various other relatives. The Ivanovici brothers in Novi Brdo, in Koretište, did the same, but it is called "Organic fruit". So, Mr. Minister, these are all methods that you need to follow up on how state money is laundered through business. No freezers, no fruit, no processing, nothing.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67711	National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 57th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67712	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 57 of this Law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing. Money laundering and terrorism are two things that go hand in hand. Unfortunately, even the most powerful countries in the world are unable to deal with it. When it comes to smaller countries, like Serbia, then things are even more complicated. In fact, the state of Serbia is flooded, networked with various NGOs that are financed from abroad, and there is no expert, this financial system that can trace money that lies at the expense of an NGO if it is intended to finance terrorism and so on. So, as much as you're passing these laws, doing his alterations and additions, these things, unfortunately, won't be able to be solved until the end. For this reason, non-governmental organisations financed from abroad, which are confidently known to have anti-Serbian character, anti-state character, anti-state action, need to do something in this respect to prevent their operation. It's one of the parameters, one of the ways in which you can operate in the direction that's the subject of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67713	National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 60th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67714	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this is a very serious topic. Recently, the newspaper wrote about the programme director, in Serbia, otherwise unregistered "N1" television, and his company "Ki Connect", which has one employee, where he made 250,000 euros through the company. It turns out that the person who transferred this to him, i.e. the firm, Baški Ulaj, the leader of the tropoic mafia, the Albanian drug lord, who thus allegedly transferred Yugoslavia's Ćosic, the programme director of unregistered "N1" television in Serbia, a fake cross-border, in Luxenburg, to fictitiously registered 249,000 euros. Of the other persons, he also had suspicious transactions, with a total of 510 000 euros, $147, $37 million, and 335 000 of British pounds, all obtained through the company "KI Connect". So this part that he got from Bashkim Ulysses and British pounds is very interesting. I don't know what the programme director could have advised the leader of the drug clan, the tropoly mafia, Baškam Ulaja, but several months after that he hosted on Mr Kurti's show, so the prime minister from the fake state of Kosovo and Metohija, a prime minister who, in his time, had been released and sentenced as a terrorist in Serbia. It's the best evidence that money laundering has to do with terrorism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67715	Thank you. Member of the 66th Amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Petar Jojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67716	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I note that we have inflation regulations that regulate corruption and crime, as well as money laundering. We have a Criminal Code, which states in Article 231 that anyone who executes a conversion or transfer of property with the knowledge that this property stems from a criminal offence in order to conceal and falsely display an illegal origin of property or conceals or falsely demonstrates the fact of property with the knowledge that this property stems from a criminal offence or acquires, holds or uses property with knowledge at the time of receipt that this property stems from a criminal offence, will be punished for up to five years. However, if the value of such property exceeds a million and 500 thousand dinars, a penalty is prescribed for 10 years. What do we do here when we only make such a number of regulations? In May, an amendment was made to the Criminal Law, the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Codes on Criminal Procedure and the Law on the Prevention of Corruption. I ask the question of one minister, since today the minister is present -- who are the biggest taxpayers in Serbia? Is it true that 2,423 entrepreneurs owe at least five million and that for this debted amount one third of the Moravia Corridor could end?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67717	The 67th Amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damnjanovic? Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 67 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Verica Radet. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's Messenger, the Prophet of Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67718	In this article relating to Article 119, there are two serious illogicalities. You have provided that a fine of 50 000 to a million will be fined for the commercial offence of a legal person if, among other things, they do not provide a written statement of rest in a toy where the party, under material and criminal responsibility, declares that they participate in gambling on their own account and on their own behalf. It is in accordance with Article 24 I was already talking about here, and we think it's completely excessive. You're not going to win games of chance to be subject to this kind of interrogation unless you thought you were going to interrogate those who organize gambling? That might already make some sense. We especially don't like the idea that anyone for any crime can be punished by a fine ranging from 50,000 to millions of dinars. Now imagine the possibility of abuse there by someone who will apply this regulation and who will assess whether someone should be punished by a fine of 50,000 dinars or a fine of millions of dinars? First, it's impossible to distinguish a single offence so much that it can be such a range of punishments. It's impossible absolutely, because someone either did or didn't commit a crime. As far as he's done it knowing, how accidentally, as much as a slip, it can be some shades, but the difference between a fine paying 50,000, and the other million dinars, it doesn't make sense. You know, these are the biggest sources of corruption, like this on change. The clerks have exactly this range of penalties and you come and then the clerk estimates whether you're going to pay 50,000, and you give him another 200 grand, or they're going to pay this maximum penalty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67719	The 68th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to the 70th Amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67720	We heard in the 2014 campaign that the SNS promised a complete break-up with the previous practice on almost all issues, but one of the passwords that were effective and common was all in the fight against corruption. To make the difference between SNS and DS, we saw that the fight against corruption remained just a dead letter on paper. We saw that and the key things that were very and very bad for Serbia the advances kept when they came to power. In today’s debate, we heard commendations on the account of the notaries, but above all, we also heard commendations on the expense of public executioners. I would remind you that a large number of these public perpetrators, i.e. the largest number of public contractors, are not doing their job in accordance with good customs and with some elemental morality, but are solely aimed at robbing the property of Serbian citizens to get to real estate as soon as possible, which is usually those housing units up to 50 square meters. We've seen this from the statistics. In 2017 it was 3,700 of such properties. Do you know that today some of the richest people in Serbia are the public perpetrators, and they have been in existence in Serbia since 2011. So they were introduced by Democrats. The advances were against it back then. After 2012, when the advances came to power, they held them back, in 2015 supported them, and in 2019. We are the only parliamentary party in favour of their abolition, and we have gathered more than 100 thousand signatures to put the issue on the agenda, the new Law on Executive Procedure and Security, where the execution will return to courts, and the state of Serbia would then have to be guaranteed that no one will be left without their property on an arbitrary basis, because the perpetrator has committed himself to some real estate and will provide protection to human dignity and human rights, which protects the most in-debted ones, i.e. those who are in debt slavery to banks. I'll remind you that the most in charge are those who owe the most for both taxes and for everything else and continue to be in debt uninterrupted, and there's nothing the perpetrators can do about it. This is the situation in Serbia today.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67721	Thank you. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 71st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67722	Mr. Minister, over the past ten years, but in the past seven years since the SNS has been in power, the fight against money laundering has been without great results and without major cases. If you look at the court epilogue of all cases, only one-fifth of those who were pompously photographed in the media, through press conferences for the police minister and his associates, these cases, therefore, that one-fifth, had an epilogue in court with some symbolic punishments. The others ended up in a prison somewhere, just as he was pompously announced, the case of Dragoslav Kosmajca's arrest, a special press conference, the biggest drug dealer, etc. And in the end, that punishment was for some illegal construction. It was funny even how dramaticly it was announced when one present journalist asked – and, therefore, we now know that he is a man from Kosmaya. There, so much about this seriousness and everything that's been done for the past seven years. And all the cash flows from drug trafficking in the Raška area, from drug sales and all these criminal circles and clans coming from Kosovo and Metohija, where there is no, unfortunately, because of the occupation there over the past 20 years, control over it ends, and that is recognised by people from the Directorate for the Prevention of Money Laundering, in legal, signposting, streams, through the purchase of refrigeration facilities, through the purchase and construction of residential facilities, through various other jobs that they legalize with that dirty money. And we now have a law that is inapplicable here, and that is why we have asked for both erasure and this article 71.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67723	The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 72 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67724	The fight against corruption and a radical break-up with the Democratic Party period, of course, did not happen. We've had some processes, mostly in the media, and we've been able to read in the paper who's what he stole, who's what he's been doing, and we've seen that these people are still at large and there are no trials against them. When you listen to representatives of the ruling majority, most of them will tell you from a to what anyone has stolen, especially from DS members, but there is not a single trial against these people, which leads us to the conclusion that you don't really want to deal with that crime. So, all of this you are doing and boasting when something like this comes along, such as this law from the European Union, you think that by improving our situation, it is not enough to improve the situation that some European law will be adopted, especially if these European laws are not in themselves good, because European laws that adopt countries, especially which are not members of the EU, are not so similar to us, since all these laws are specific. It does not take any of the specificities of each country in which it is brought, but is mainly prescribed from the English language. It won't help either the fight against corruption or the fight against money laundering, because it's not our practice. We see that the practice continues, with less or more intensity, but everything we had until 2012, is mostly continued after 2012 and there is no breakup. We see that some of the leaders of the former regime are now and part of this regime, and those who are accused, are accused only of parliamentary benches, just from the media, just out of a statement, there are no trials against them, and nothing really happens against them, except that we can see in the exhibitions.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67725	The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the 72nd Amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67726	Here are some licenses issued to an authorised person and a deputy authorised person and until when licenses will last and so on. We Serbian radicals against some licensing, which are the fashion of the European Union. You have these licenses, with which we usually have very bad experience in all possible areas, from bankruptcy managers and beyond, you're actually giving away someone, someone's education, a diploma, acquired experience, and so on. But the basic problem of this law and we know the intention of Minister Cynthia Mali that he wants his proposals in this sense to come here and come, that he wants to prevent it from acting on some of the situations covered by this law, and we don't think there's a big deal of it as long as we don't have a serious judicial system. Unfortunately, we don't have it. There are, of course, a lot of prosecutors and a lot of judges who do their job properly, in accordance with the law, in accordance with all the rules and in accordance with their safety, but unfortunately, there are a lot of those who don't do this job the way they're supposed to do it, and that's exactly what's happening to us. Someone here also talked about some of the affairs that were open, and closed, and about tax evasion and money laundering in one way or another. So as long as someone doesn't know they're seriously going to be convicted if he dares to do money laundering and, God forbid, by financing terrorism, that's how he behaves, as long as his behavior depends on someone licensed this or that, there's nothing to do with it, believe me.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67727	National MP Sreto Peric submitted to Article 72 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed a search on all amendments, I conclude the examination of the bill in particular. After we have conducted a review of the draft law in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We're moving to agenda five. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the time-limits for the settlement of monetary obligations in commercial transactions. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67728	In this article you have predicted, in fact, a member speaks about the deadlines for the settlement of monetary liabilities in commercial transactions between the public sector and business entities, but you have said this slightly incorrectly because you have written between public sector entities in order to prevent non-discrimination of monetary liabilities within the deadline. It must stand - within the legal time limit, because these deadlines are not prescribed by anyone, they don't prescribe some kind of licensed, etc., but it is known that all deadlines are governed by the law, and it has to be written here as well. Otherwise, with the proposed amendments and additions to this law, you wrote it in the explanation, the possibility is introduced after the establishment of technical and technological conditions, starting on 1 July 2021 and the obligation of the trustee to deliver the invoices and other payment requirements to the debtor in electronic form through the electronic invoice system, which will establish and manage the Ministry of Finance. What's our problem here? Of course not electronic communication. We also talked about some situations where it won't be possible to deliver invoices, etc., when we talked about another law and then we tried to discuss it with you, Minister. But we somehow don't understand why today, three, four, five, six days before the end of this calendar year, we are passing a law that will apply from July 1, 2021? We don't understand such a rush. First, we need to provide all the preconditions. And in your own explanation, you wrote that there are certain preconditions that must be fulfilled in order for this law to be applied. We just don't think it was the time, especially now we don't have to discuss this proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67729	National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67730	On the one hand, this opportunity is also an opportunity to discuss some of the misunderstandings, Mr. Minister, in the practices that occur when it comes to this law. We don't have that member changed. Here, I found it now, so I'm going to potentiate a problem that's coming up. If a private firm closes a contract on any business co-operation or provides a service to a budget firm, the direct beneficiary of the budget, the law has laid down, and Article 4, that a contract between the public sector and business entities cannot provide for a deadline for the settlement of monetary liabilities for more than 45 days. Is it true? That's right. In the case of public sector debt in that contractual relationship. What happens in practice? I would ask you to act as Minister of Finance. Since many public enterprises whose founder is, say, a local self-government unit and which use direct budgetary resources, through the appraisals they receive through the adoption of budgets at local level, money can be used by distribution and contingents for certain purposes. The problem arises, Mr. Minister, when someone arbitraryly interprets Article 4 of paragraph 2 of this law and strictly, and you know who does the most, people who are responsible for the implementation of the budget do, and they say it is that rino of 45 days, which is not true, because the law says – for up to 45 days if there is a contract for a contractual obligation. Then come those private sector entities, who co-operate with such companies or institutions, to the problem that they can't for their delivered service to get money like the currency on the invoice, which is usually seven or 14 days, but are waiting for some 45th day that doesn't even stand in the contract, and it's really a big problem that the ministry needs to solve. So, in the next amendment, you can also specify that member of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67731	Thank you. The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67732	Ladies and gentlemen, it is by established practice that the Government of the Republic of Serbia does not take into account the real problems of the citizens of Serbia and where it is necessary to improve or adopt other legislation, but deals exclusively with what comes as a condition in this or that chapter whether to open, whether to close, whether to make any progress in the negotiations process between Serbia and the EU. Serbian government officials and at all the main owners in Serbia think there is a possibility that Serbia will one day become an EU member, which, of course, will never happen. We've seen the humiliation tomorrow when Alexander Vukic is in Tirana for this pointless project of "little Shengen". The "little Schengen" project is a comforting reward for Serbia, and it is simply an intention to make it known to Serbia that it will never become an EU member, that it can become a member of the Balkan Union. As much as we are in the illusion of living well, that our economy is never stronger, pay and pensions never higher, investors just come, etc., as much as it can be our illusion, it's not really like that and we're not strong enough that we can help and that we should help other economies, especially one thing that is really here is a problem with the lack of responsibility that the government shows for the Serbian people who are not currently living in Serbia, but has really suffered because of these European or Euro-Atlantic integrations. Aleksandar Vukic said he would meet with Milo Djukanovic there today, just at a time when a new law on freedom of religion is being drafted in Montenegro, which should take away SPC property. So, there is currently a very tense situation, a great tension, because it is known that in times of our slavery under some other empires, the SPC has been a homogenizing factor for our people, and today more than two centuries since our release, we are in a position to hit that church, and those who are the leaders of all these, the greatest converts, Serbian traitors like Milo Djukanovic. That is why we invited the Serbian people living in Montenegro, the Serbian patriots, to come to Niksic tomorrow for a meeting organised by Mitropolia of Montenegro-Primorska and expressed their protest against such an event. We think that the Government of the Republic of Serbia should also show responsibility for Serbs who do not live in Serbia and protect them in every way possible, and these partners of yours from the EU are obviously not targeted, and they are not interested in the fate of our people.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67733	The People's MP Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? National MP Nemanja Sarovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67734	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3 of this Law, so that the newly introduced point of the 4th of this article, which refers to the electronic invoice, is reshape, because I thought the solution I made was better. It's good to use modern technology, it's good to introduce innovation, but there's another problem here. Since the finance minister is present here with his team, I think they need to take care of one thing, which is that many other things regarding this electronic invoice haven't come to life. Regular citizens, citizens who need to meet with authorities, still have major problems with this. For example, customs avoid, reluctantly, mere ordinary people when they find themselves there do not know their rights, receive these electronic invoices and then cause problems to the parties that, I said, do not know their rights and waste their time. It's a similar case for an accountant, both in banks, in post office, and in many other things. I've had an example, and now I have, not me, but every citizen, if you happen to be, say, late, and every one of them happens, to pay the bill for your cell phone, you can't do it electronically. You can, but re-engage that phone of yours in three or four days, but you have to walk again, as it always has been, to go to the bank, wait on the counter, and then go show them. You have to do something about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67735	National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67736	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, in those invoices, transactions, etc. The most important thing for me is these around the road infrastructure, but reading the newspaper found how other Serbians Boškić Ljotic, Dragan Đilas and Vuk Jeremic see highways, so they say – except for the cost of building that is measured by hundreds of millions and even billions, this asphaltophilia of the government is a significant source of environmental pollution, construction and use of roads, the ecological balance and the link of the local population to its natural environment are disrupted. So believe it or not, the Alliance for Serbia has overcome everything it has done so far and has started to scare people off highways. It reminds me of those times when 100 and more years ago, when the railroad was built, people in the province were afraid of trains. It's almost incredible that that's what people say that should prove they're better than the government, that they'll build more roads, fast traffic, highways. It's almost amazing that they're against road construction, because the locals will lose their connection to the environment. We also remember how many people feared that famous oak, etc. I recommend that Dragan Djilas and Boskic sit on the rails, avoid even the Ibar highway, and that they melt with Dedinj, where Bosko Ljotic would go, because there the Serbian Parliament pays his apartment, and I think that apartment is owned by him. Slowly from his grandfather to his home end, he will go with the otters and in every way avoid the use of the Way of Milos the Great, for, behold, God, he will lose contact with the environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67737	National MP Tomislav Ljubenovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? The 6th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67738	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Ministers with Associates, I have tabled an amendment to Article 6(2). Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the time limits for the settlement of financial liabilities in commercial transactions. I've requested an amendment to reduce the range of penalties scheduled. A large range of penalties is an ideal means of corruption. There are many examples that the same work has been given completely different penalties under the envisaged legal minimum. Even more so, there were examples where, in some cases, maximum fines were imposed for the same act and in other cases they were released from fines. Clearly, fines must be imposed. No one is to be released from anything provided for in the law. However, the range of fines must be contained precisely for this reason. Otherwise, we will continue to have abuses of which Serbia's largest budget will suffer the most damage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67739	The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67740	Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party, I have submitted an amendment to the provisions of Article 7 proposed by us to reduce the time limit for the application of this law and also for the making up and submission of sublegal acts that should regulate this matter. It's not clear why it's such a long period of application of this law. This law should not apply until 30 June 2001. So he loses efficiency, he loses importance, his application could be immediately, without delay. When it comes to the application of this law in practice, who is the result of the application of this law? From the competent state authorities, and above all from the competent inspection services, the competent departments, the competent authorities and the administration of the police authorities, and then the courts. The fines are when it comes to the provisions of this matter. If we are referring to democratic countries, did we use the parallel right of the Russian Federation something or the regulations of the People's Republic of China, our friend? I don't see here that we've had such radical changes or radical procedures when it comes to the application of these regulations. You see how democracy in continental law is applied and what rules are and how they apply, and in Anglo-Saxon law. To remind you of the American democracy, which many of us call upon. That is, America today has 11 million male prisoners, and it has 770,000 female. There are such democracies that you are calling for and doing the Americanization of our legislation and under pressure and coercion, we are making regulations that will not be applicable and... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67741	Thank you. According to the amendment, the People's MP Vladimir Orlic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67742	Thank you. When it comes to good examples that exist in different countries of the world, certainly the Republic of Serbia should always take care of best practice and apply them in accordance with our needs, so those solutions that are proven to be good in a way that is realistic. Of course, first of all, it's about our needs, so even when we define the rules ourselves according to what our needs are, we certainly do the best, and that is the essence of our point of view regarding the relationship of things in politics, but also in general. This people, this country and what our interest is are always in focus. Anything else can come in handy, it can be useful, but it can never be what defines us first of all, not when it comes to legal solutions, not when it comes to acting in any other way. The state of Serbia and our people, that is what interests us first, our interest and those solutions that are best in this regard. As far as the laws we are discussing are concerned, it has been shown on several occasions today that between other and good laws we can establish a corridor of good solutions that show results in practice and when it comes to the economy in the broadest possible sense and when someone looks at it on the side, it is always something more important as an assessment that we get from anything we say, because by nature we are subjective, we who participate in law making, support them for that, those who criticize them always show first of all interest in what they might interpret as some disadvantages. But when it's all looked at by someone third, someone on the side who doesn't have any use for whether we do something right or to our own harm, and he says, "This is undeniable good, this is objective, real good, then it means something more." Ladies and gentlemen, Serbian citizens, if you have not learned this by now, the IMF Executive Directors' Committee has just been completed and it decided yesterday to complete the third review of the results of Serbia's economic programme with positive conclusions. So, the IMF is satisfied with our country's economic progress based on those parameters they measure and announced Serbia's projected growth at 4% next year. So, with everything we say and what we show in the meantime, we always rely on what others see in Serbia and how others appreciate our further progress. To remind you, international institutions have projected a 3% growth this year, at best 3.5%, and as you can see, we have shown once again that we can go beyond that. The rule is already someone that we always end a year better than what was announced, so this announcement for next year, too, I believe, we don't make mistakes if we take it as some value that we're going to see not only satisfy, but that we're going to look at, of course, and we're going to exceed. Since there has been a comment today on NBS activity, here is what the National Bank says about the things that we have managed to realise and that expect us to – Serbia continues to deliver good economic results with growth supported by all components of consumption, public investment, export and record high inflows of foreign direct investment, it is estimated by the National Bank. So those who say that some of these components are missing or not satisfied to a satisfactory extent are mistaken. What is also important to say is that we have managed to, since there have been stories about the dangers of money laundering in planetary proportions, to achieve that famous regime of special monitoring by Fatfa for Serbia to be put in place ad act. We have said – we will arrange our regulation in the best possible way and it will be absolutely undeniable and clear to all that in Serbia the dangers of these types are not lurking and will be only Fatfu clear and it will be officially and recognised. It just happened, no matter what you remember, that this particular monitoring will make this country suffer the introduction of sanctions as the 1990s, and while we have constantly warned that it is unserious and that there is no need to scare the people, that there is no reason for it, and no political point can be obtained in this way, it can only be done harm to itself. They didn't want to listen, but it was just like we said, with all the comments we've made here today, that certainly institutions need to finish their work and that all observed irregularities should be examined to the end, and then processed, or processed as the law requires. That's what we always just agree on. Among other things, I say that everything that happened with the financing of different members of Dragan Gilas' party through private companies "Rift Legal" and "Codeks" in the Municipality of Stari Grad should be evicted until the end. So all the amounts we've been telling you about, which we've been telling here, which ended up in pockets, or on the payment cards of the various officials of Gilas' party, as someone said freedom and justice, to be examined until the very end. To determine the flow of money from the Old Town municipality towards one and the other mentioned firm, and Pradi, so, then to these people who are political activists and members and high-ranking party officials Dragan Gilas, but not only those parties. The least important thing to do is to establish the truth about, as you can see in the media today, that it is directly in the municipality of Old Town by that competent municipal officials insisted that whoever wants to achieve any economic interest in the territory of the Old Town municipality and that it is necessary for that to agree, to suggest, first to pay certain sums of money to different associations, that a certain donation be made first, to provide evidence that the money has been laid down, so that when that evidence is delivered, the municipality can make the consent requested. But watch out now for the proportions of these cash flows, the suspicious ones, at the very least. In the case of Human District, according to the recognitions of people who were engaged in the organization itself, their authorised faces a million and six thousand dinars received a donation under the allegations on this basis, and then as they say they returned them to the people who functioned in the Old Town municipality. The second organisation "The Magic Hands" is called, the association says, three million and nearly three hundred thousand dinars received within certain donations, and then returned them back to cash in charge in the Old Town municipality. These are things that should definitely get a proper epilogue. When we tell the institutions to do their job to the end, this certainly needs to be questioned. What is the answer to this knowledge that we get from these people from the immediate surroundings of Dragan Gilas and Gilas himself and others from his so-called so-called. The alliance. They're just trying to avoid any responsibility, to kind of eskicipate the hand of justice. Of course, they consider it necessary to come to power, for prices can only be completely deprived of any responsibility. How does he come to power Dragan Gilas according to his own vision and his own plans? Violent methods. And as we say it all the time, we say it loudly, they're trying to unwittingly deny it. You see now, confirmation that Gilas's so-called. An alliance of violence wants to come to power, came today from that alliance itself. Stamatovic Milan, from Catetina, who underlines that he is still a member of the alliance, is not only one of the founders, but still engaged there actively and speaking on their behalf. He says today that he does not agree with all the views of this alliance he belongs to and says – I wish them success in politics, but we are obviously different in some important attitudes. Pay attention. That's also the question of how to get to power, because as I said, violent events don't do any good. So, he says -- Gilas' alliance wants violence to come to power and says he doesn't fully agree. But if anyone knows that, well, I guess one of their ten founders and one of the executives who's still out there today. Says that's where the man belongs. It would not be bad, as Gilas is trying to get the IMF, the World Bank, and I see today the EU delegation through some letters explaining that they do not see the situation at all in Serbia well, but he will open their eyes and tell them that this country really lives. To deliver this statement to his Stamatovic when he sends certain letters next, because if he wants to clarify anything to those people or to someone else, it doesn't matter to whom. This Stamatovic statement is the best possible explanation, best in the world. Who are these people, what their plans are and what they want to make of Serbia, is shown here as accurately as possible. By the way, let it be the least important, let them choose to inform them. This is important for the relations they have with the EU that in the expanded composition of DS officials some of their civic democratic club, they did it yesterday, elected a dozen responsible public workers, you know all the sizes that sinks of bile every day, both by Alexander Vukic and his family, the members of the Serbian government, but also by other people from the SNS. That this elite society was also included in the last place Vesna Pesic, just the lady who announced yesterday that people from the EU who come here and talk to us about different important things, as she said yesterday in feces. So these are their answers, these are their values, and that's probably the best possible indicator of what they should expect from them right now and in any future EU or other part of the world. Serbia certainly deals with its needs, builds up its economy, determines the corridors, Mr Risticevic, there you are quite right, to which it has waited for decades and all that it has done, is a good confirmation and a good supply that what is announced, such as corridors such as those forest, so, Vodja Karadjordja, a fast-track car as you say, but the continuation of Corridor 11, but also those who need to connect us infrastructureally with Republika Srpska and many others, that these are serious plans, that Serbia can expect only good implementation and that the visionary projections that, once again, have been defined by Aleksandar Vukic, have been there for more than two and a half years, that the development of the economy is a good basis for any other progress and any other happiness. What's absolutely undeniable, "little Schengen," yes. One way is to further strengthen our economy, to expand the market and offer, so since we are already champions in attracting foreign investment, to be even bigger. This country deserves to overcome every success, this nation deserves to be able to say one day we made out of our house exactly what we wanted and just what it long deserved to be, we were wise, we were patient, we weren't hard to do, and with all that, we had someone to show us which way to go. Of course, I mean Alexander Vukic and the SNS, there's no doubt about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67743	Since we've conducted a search on all amendments, I've concluded a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. (Petar Jojic: Replica. ) Col. Jojic, a colleague of Orlic spoke about the former regime, Gilas, Bastac, and not of you as the applicant for the amendment. We're moving to the sixth item of the agenda. You have received amendments submitted by Members of Parliament to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Central Register of Mandatory Social Insurance. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67744	Here, we spoke earlier about why laws should not be passed prematurely before the government is ready to prepare sublegal acts even before other authorities are ready to apply the law. We now have amendments to this law for that very reason. What is the essence of these changes? The essence of the changes is the extension of the deadlines. Whenever we tell you something like this, you find yourself hurt, offended, and here, the Central Register takes over the affairs of keeping a register in accordance with the provisions of this law within a year of the date of entry into force of this law, so it was written by 1 January 2020 at the latest. You now have seven, eight days before that 1 January 2020 to change the law and then order for, change two, three members, and the bottom line is that you have to move this deadline on 1 January 2021, without any guarantee that we will be able to apply this law that first January 2021. The applicants of the single application, as it states in this law, are obliged to write within a period of one year from the date of application of that decision on the unique code of the code for the entry and encryption of data in the work records, that on the basis of the update of the data contained in Article 11 of this attitude, and that they should do so within a year? What are we changing by law? We're extending that deadline to two years. Now, that's what we tell you every time we see, when we estimate that there are simply no objective, real conditions for applying a law, and you resist when they tell you there, they send you a directive, you have to do it, so whatever.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67745	National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67746	Aleksandar Vukic said when visiting one of Serbia's health facilities, I will try to quote it literally: "Kill me if I know where 20% of the health budget is spent every year." And now we've come to wonder, that so-called. Social or health money, and this law right now regulates the central register of all those who are bonds, how are they spent, and are Serbian citizens satisfied with that? No, because all the announced suspension of waiting lists for those most widespread, unfortunately, in Serbia, and in particular orthopedics and other health branches, are still long and citizens are forced to apply from large centres, where these waiting lists are still so large in another place, often older people and to sell their property, or to rent it to someone in that big city, most often in Belgrade, Novi Sad, and to apply in some smaller and wait, because they will come faster to improve their health. That's not good at all, Mr. Minister. Mandatory social security and that health money, through the Health Insurance Fund, still needs some basic guarantee in primary health care to provide citizens. And an ordinary man, the one who went to some health home today in some major city where a doctor has a general practice of between 1,500 and 2,000 patients who have to be treated and accepted as a chosen doctor, can't do all that. He can't even schedule specialist examinations, because they're usually scheduled for the fifth day of the month, and when that fifth day comes, people don't wait anymore because the general practice of this electronic route is not able to do it, but as a stampede they go to hospitals and... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67747	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67748	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I will talk about the insurance of farmers, pension and disability insurance and health insurance. The debts for these two types of liabilities are over 250 billion. That's what farmers can't pay for. It's a population whose average age is 62. It's a population who's lost the right to be treated because of debts. Those debts are non-paymentable. They were created because of laws passed by members of the former regime's party, which demanded that pension and disability insurance be paid to all members of the household, not only the holders. That's how these enormous debts came to be. Whoever didn't pay PIO insurance for the farmer, he didn't pay social contributions either. So we're at RFZO, when you check, you have a total of 90,000 agricultural insurance companies. There are about 500,000 agricultural holdings in Serbia, perhaps more. Registered agricultural holdings have 350,000. So it's time to solve other people's problems again, and they're going to criticize us as quickly as they can not solve the problems they left in the piles. I believe that we can and that we want to solve this problem in the next period. So we're going to get, we're going to renovate the insurance companies, there's going to be more of them, we're going to solve people of these accumulated debts by writing off interest and doing the principal's work, and that's some suggestion of what we need to do in the next period and to prove that it's not better to be a social case than a peasant, but that they have both rights to a dignified age and a right to treatment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67749	Thank you. On Article 4th of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does he want a word? (No) On Article 4th of the amendment, with correction, MP Sreto Peric submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67750	Ladies and gentlemen, just before Mr. Orlic was exposed, we heard the same thing I was talking about before. So the impression is that all members of the SRS, MPs or other officials know all about the crime of former regime members, i.e. The DS regime, and there's no trial anywhere, there's no indictment, there's no convictions. I will remind you, when Miskovic was arrested, the whole of Belgrade was glued to posters with Miskovic's character, with the character of Dragan Djilas and Cedomir Jovanovic and about a question, speculation -- who's next? As early as 2012, as my memory serves, at the end of the year, advances started talking about the former regime's crime, the Gilasov crime, the DS crime and the rest. There's absolutely nothing anywhere, there's no charges anywhere, there's no criminal record, absolutely nothing. And why is that? This is because the promoters need this Dragan Gilas, they need that and such a Democratic Party, to always point fingers at them and to have enough in front of the public, regardless of their results or possible changes that their regime has introduced into Serbia, only to point fingers at them and think if they are better than those before them, that that is enough. That, unfortunately, isn't enough. So it can't be the essence and be something positive unless it's as bad as it was, which is the essence of the whole Gilas and the Democratic Party story. They need them as targets, because, among other things, if they weren't who they were, you'd never even come to power, and they always point to it, to show about a message that there's someone worse than them, to point to them and to meet only that they were better than the Democrats, not to talk about themselves and their results.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67751	Thank you. Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We're moving to the seventh item of the agenda. You have received amendments submitted by Members of Parliament to the proposal for a law supplementing the Customs Tariff Act. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67752	This was an opportunity, Mr. Minister, for you to make a turn before the upcoming parliamentary elections and give up this policy when it comes to customs on goods from the EU, where you let this happen by signing the SAA, how many years ago, to bury our Serbian market and gradually, and now with major problems for our farmers, to destroy domestic agricultural production, because you well know as an economist and as an expert on finance, so that the state can earn more than taxes, domestic production must be strengthened and, above all, agricultural production and processing of our raw materials, which our farmers are unable to work sufficiently, in order to speed up their production and supply the Serbian market. Six hundred million euros annually, Serbia at least loses due to the lack of customs duty on imports of such goods from EU countries and you now, at this time of year, when these great celebrations, such as St. Nicholas yesterday and Christmas fasting, cannot be found in our large markets for domestic vegetables and fruits. It is all imports from the EU country that receive subsidies from their countries, such as Germany and others, and also Turkey, and of course they cannot sell all their goods on their market, but it is imported by our large importers and sold on our market. We consider that the only recovery of Serbian agriculture and therefore the processing industry that would of this raw material through the production of what our national brands are, through the processing of fruits and vegetables and how we can recover and agriculture. In particular, the stock fund has been completely destroyed and threatened, because this goods and this meat that most often expires, which comes to us through EU countries here, is something that is completely and ultimately destroying the Serbian peasant, which is vigorously opposed to the SRS. That's why we're asking you to turn to this policy, because this one won't lead us to anything good. You will see, time passes quickly, in five and ten years, in what state then Serbia and Serbian agriculture will only be. Now almost no one stays in the country, so many unprocessed lands. For this very reason, they are destimulated and they know that they cannot mate that capital and that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67753	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67754	This is also one of the draft laws that should never have been found like this in the National Assembly. We think that a whole new law should have been passed, just so that, when it comes to customs, we would have returned to our regulations and would have more of a break with this Stabilisation and Association Agreement. So we can get out of this agreement, how we got in and out without consequences, but we didn't get in without consequences. Unfortunately, for all these years as much as the SAA is applied, we are in serious trouble and financial, the budget of about 600,000 a year is losing. As much as that's a pity for our agricultural producers, it's a special problem. You see, you now also apply this agreement, because every moment, every year something new is applied, now you can't even get out of our country, you can't even get our apples in hand luggage to be transferred, let alone trade them, to be exported, at least not in the way we want them to. You are constantly boasting about this trade balance with EU countries, but we have no use for that, believe me. It's not our peasant who benefits from it, and this isn't any demagogue story, it's real and established. You see, when you see where agricultural products, fruit and vegetables are from, in our markets, and even in the markets, then we really wonder what our people are doing and how our peasants survive with what they produce, when they have nowhere to sell, because what we get from the white world is cheaper than what we produce.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67755	Thank you. The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to the 1st Amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67756	The Republic of Serbia has signed a Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the EU that has since applied unilaterally. The then minister who signed it boasted that the pen signed by the contract had introduced Serbia into the EU and that it was a historic pen, but no one had yet rationally seen the consequences of the signing, nor of the application. So we abolished the absolute customs and customs revenues. In 2014, the loss compared to the period before the Stabilisation and Association Agreement was signed was about 500m euros. How much money is that exactly for these 11 years? So it's a collection of money. If it's only 500 million on average, imagine what the figure is and what the Republic of Serbia could do with that money. They wouldn't have to cut pensions, that is, take pensioners against the constitution, cut salaries, make other savings, and could have simply invested that money in our economy, and that in these 11 years we really see one significant progress in all of this. The real question is that the EU sees us that way. The European Union sees us as someone it can take advantage of, who it can influence and realize its interests in this space, and above all it is of interest to hire our cheap workforce because it is much cheaper for them to pay 250 euros here than for example in Slovakia to pay 1,400 euros or in Italy to pay 2,000 euros for those jobs for which our workers are paid 250 euros. It is simply an essential interest of the EU in Serbia, not only in Serbia, in this entire Balkan area, and it is impossible that members of the government of the Republic of Serbia are not aware of it and will not do anything about it. So that's a burning question, a question that needs to show our country's sovereignty and independence and to show us that we are not a country that submits, but that we are a country that cares for its economic and other national interests.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67757	National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67758	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will remind you of another situation that shows the relationship between the EU and Serbia. So, the first time the EU has seduced sanctions, introduced a sanctions regime against Russia, then Minister of Trade Rasim Ljajic said that this is one great opportunity for incentives for our exports to the Russian Federation to replace the exports that certain European countries have had to the Russian Federation, notably Poland and Spain. It arrived to us on the same day in a memoir, a diplomatic note from EU representatives in Belgrade, then Michael Davenport, who wrote that encouraging exports to the Russian Federation of the EU would take it as an act of hostility and that it was not in line with the EU foreign and security policy, which tells us that the EU thinks that we should not follow and do what is in our economic interest, and certainly it would be an increase in exports, rather than that we should listen to them and if they are under the pressure of Americans in some pointless conflicts with Russia that we should be in this, at the expense of our economic interests, their accomplices. This shows you first and foremost that they are not interested in the development of our economy, that they are not interested in the standards of our citizens, that they are not interested in the height of the salary, or the level of pensions, or the price height, anything, but only that we are irrevocably meeting everything that comes from Brussels, even though we are a country that is in the EU lobby and, as things stand now, will never become an EU member and probably not change the situation. So if we're doing what they're asking us to do, then that's good, if we're doing something that's exclusively in our economic interest, that's bad. It is a real picture of the EU-Serbia relationship.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67759	National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67760	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, tariffs. I thought Serbia was, in that sense, a state, until Bastic and Gilas appeared, for example. Gilas is probably afraid of some tariffs for money he picked up from Serbian citizens, from the media, etc. And of his wealth now he has nothing but fear of losing him, for he is threatened by the Law of Investigation of the origin of the property. Ladies and gentlemen, this Bastac is particularly interesting to me. He's been banging customs tariffs on popcorn. That's not how Karadjorje defined customs, on the scale, etc. He probably had some skelarin in that pool, too, or whatever he was doing, but the popcorn was special. That's where Bastac of popcorn thought they were pistachios, so like now it's going to break the customs tariff of 30, 40 percent, so if you want to sell popcorn, there are two conditions. First you pay customs, special Bastac customs tariff, and then you have to buy bags from Bastac. The popcorn bags had to be Bastache's, obtained on some public procurement, but they were measured according to the head of his godmother, the hazelnut. So they had to have these dimensions in order not to accidentally sell someone in different bags a little more of those popcorn. He then took a bag measure on the best man's head and then set a customs tariff and then sold those pistachios. Mr. Minister, speaking of customs tariffs, may I ask you about the Indjia Customs Report, is there any possibility of working out this private until this municipal issue is made, because I've been asked by economic operators? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67761	Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67762	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when it comes to customs, I ask whether the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Agriculture has, for the last 10 years, any information on the import of meat by Zlatiborc and Matijevića? Do Serbian citizens know what they eat? Is it true that Zlatiborca does not have any skin in front of the slaughterhouse and imports from abroad meat? Is it true that from Argentina and Brazil and the EU refrigerator, as waste in the decommissioning of imports into Serbia and thus processing these products and selling to our citizens? Among them is one of the great, therefore the bosses, and that is Cole, so-called. In fact, Miodrag Kostic, who imported 10,000 cane dropouts, repacked in Serbia and exported as Serbian sugar and earned tens of millions of euros on it? So, ladies and gentlemen, it is also a crime in this area and that the competent authorities should determine what quantities of these two companies, first of all, Zlatiborac and Matijević, imported meat and meat processing from Brazil, Argentina, Europe via Montenegro and KIM in 10 years ago? When it comes to Gilas, who is said to have had a number of transactions and it's a crime, I don't dispute it, but I don't know what a public prosecutor is doing. The public prosecutor is obliged to reach out to him under the Code of Criminal Procedure to say that a criminal offence being prosecuted under official duty was committed immediately, without delay, to initiate the criminal proceedings. You see, in a particular case, a public prosecutor here is silent, hiding and doing nothing. That's why the prosecutor needs to be prosecuted for breaking the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67763	Thank you. The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Tomic. The government and the Finance Committee, the republican budget and the control of public spending, accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Rade. Does anyone want a word? My colleagues, Radeta, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67764	I'm not sure that, when I spoke about the amendment earlier, I said a good number as to how much we as a state are losing money because of the application of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. It is about 600m euros a year, so you see how we play with our own production, with our own peasant and with the budget of the Republic of Serbia, of course. If it wasn't for these losses, imagine how many years this SAA was applied in advance, how much funding would be in the budget, and how much could be allocated to what we insist on raising pensions and salaries, minimum to 37,000 dinars, to reach that consumer basket, which is 37,000 dinars. But instead, we're destroying this particular SAA and destroying our peasant, destroying our agricultural production. People who are serious about this business as Professor Slavic wrote books and explained in detail what this most important strategic project means. It's supposed to be agricultural land. Five million hectares of agricultural land in Serbia should be processed, it would be possible to process it, but unfortunately it is not done. We have a lot of laundry, a lot of agricultural land because people don't have the conditions to deal with agriculture, they don't have enough resources. The villages are abandoned, not only because young people are leaving, but young people are leaving the village just because villages are abandoned, because they have no infrastructure. You know, you can't imagine now that someone can live in a village where there is no Internet and road and sewerage, and what village in Serbia today? So you can count on your fingers. That is a serious problem, and that is why we have four to ten times less products per hectare than in the countries from which we import this food, which is then cheaper on our market.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67765	Thank you. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed a search on all amendments, I conclude the examination of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We're moving to the 8th point of the agenda. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Games on Happiness. A report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Financial Committee on the Republic budget and the control of public spending, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted, was received. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to review the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67766	In an explanation, the reasons for the adoption of this law, the basic reasons, writes for the adoption of this law of the problems that this law should solve, i.e. the objectives achieved by this law, are to comply with the regulations of the Republic of Serbia with EU directives and with the recommendations of international organisations. That's what really gets our hair on. You will sometimes convince us that you do not comply with our rules for the EU, that you do not care whether we enter the EU, but that because of the state of Serbia, you will because of the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to comply with the regulations. That's just not true. You don't know how many times you change the rules whenever they change the directive there, here it is from May 20, 2015, so on May 30, 2018, how those of the EU are about to jump. We in the SRS think it is high time for Serbia to get off that European path, turn to our true friends, turn to Euro-Asian integration and finally align our regulations with the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. You all know that something that applies in some, I don't know which EU country, can't and isn't mandatory, is not necessarily valid in Serbia, as well as vice versa. You know, when laws are passed, mentality, customs, and some acquired obligations must be taken into account, etc. You know, people are alive, you can't drive people like a chess board, and you can change the laws at any moment, to make someone happy there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67767	National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Nikola Savic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67768	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a member of the first law speaks of the real owner of the legal person of the gambling organizer. I asked my amendment to define this concept of a real person in a better and more precise way. For what? It's a very serious matter in which abuse can occur, and practice has shown countless times that it is really possible and I think it is necessary, with 100% certainty, to define the owner in a legal person in order to prosecute this owner, not someone else. We've had countless examples and not just lately, but even at that communist time. For example, a man got on "Loto" and there were some people who wanted to buy that ballot of his, and they even gave him more money than what he was nominally getting at his gain, and that they depicted it as their gain and so, let's say, wash the money, or launder the money we talked about here. Furthermore, this law did not cover any word of the illegal game organizers. Unfortunately, there's a lot of it, and we know that there are illegal bookies, especially when it comes to, say, fighting dogs, fighting roosters, and so on, and no one has, or the legislator has dealt with these things, and I think it was necessary to warn and prevent this from happening.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67769	Thank you. The 2nd amendment was submitted by Ruzica Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67770	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the games of chance, I know an MP who doesn't buy the lottery, but he's won from games of chance a large sum, millions. This is Djordje Vukadinovic, the fake Vlah, who tried to steal part of the national identity, and the national minority and before that, thanks to Boris Tadic, received money from gambling, although he did not buy the tickets. The second lucky winner is Bastac. So he was throwing real games of chance. He used the godfather as a labor force. So, Mr. Orlic, what was it, a 50% donation, right? You get a donation, you get lucky, you get a happy donation, 50% organizer, that's what. Bastache, keep it to yourself. He realized that the municipality is like the director of these games of chance, so who says, when I give you 100 dinars, 50 comes back. It is, by the way, the principle of gambling organizers, that 50% take the organizer immediately. But he avoided it, unlike games of chance to pay a tax. And best man hazelnut was lucky, all he got was a bag on his head. He could have gone through as Karadjordje, he could've gotten his head in a bag, so he could've done it, say, Boskić could've done it instead of Nikola, as he was called, he could've done it with an axe, Boskic would've done it ideally or with a flag like that, and then that head, instead of Pera Curchia, probably Janko Veseinovic, he'd've done it with a curl like that, and then she'd have been taken home to Gilas, so to the world's greatest lucky. That's why I'm saying that the hazelnut was very lucky that his bag ended up on his head, not his head in a bag. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67771	The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Nikola Savic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67772	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a member of the 56th and present Law, that is, his position 2 tells us that they are employed in the playrooms, or as the toys are said here, which I find absolutely unacceptable, they must keep business information about the players, well, that's nothing questionable. But also, this member of the law says that employees must submit data, if it comes to them, on preventing money laundering and financing terrorism by those who play, or by winners. This is really one provision that shouldn't stand in this law. We just, maybe an hour ago, finished discussing the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism. And from various colleagues from the opposition and from the government, we've heard all the things and finesse used to launder money and fund terrorism. You don't believe, I suppose, that an ordinary man, an average man, who's employed in bookshops, toys, as you say, I say it to the casinos, if he's busy there, first of all because he didn't have the opportunity to go to another place, that he'll be the person who'll be able to judge that he and the person who comes by there laundering money, that's that money he got in the bookies used to fund terrorism? So it just doesn't stand, it doesn't make sense, and that's why I asked for this provision to be withdrawn from the members of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67773	Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67774	We have been thinking for 19 full years that if something has a prefix "European" or something that is according to European standards, it is all automatically good and quality, which has proved to be incorrect. Given that when a country or a particular EU, when it makes its own directives or any other regulations, they take into account the characteristics of their countries and their societies, respectively, they create regulations. When we who are not members of the EU and will never become it, which is a certain fact, since the curtain has fallen to that possibility long ago, and only the other day is it official, when we accept such a thing and boast, we think it is wise to say that it is something that is European, we do not understand that these same laws, these same regulations may, but most often do not comply with the specificities of our society as each country is special to itself, it has its own characteristics, so it is not all the same, and so we do not respond, our country does not always meet these European regulations. But, again, it seems to be an opinion, that the improvement of the situation is on any issue when something European is brought. The government of the Republic of Serbia is not dealing with the real problems of society from Serbia, but only with what is the EU's recommendation. In this respect, the SNS is absolutely no different from DS, as both parties only met European directives unnecessarily.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67775	Thank you. The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Filip Stojanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67776	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Ministers with Associates, I have tabled an amendment to Article 11. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Games on Happiness. I asked for an amendment to remove the mentioned member. Deleting that member is required because the editor is not always able to deliver a relevant statement that the designated person is not the person against whom the investigation or criminal proceedings is being conducted. The fact that it was given under material and criminal responsibility doesn't change things in this case. It is similar with the statement that the editor is not convicted, or that he is not a member of the criminal group organisation. This refers in particular to the fact that the editor has not committed a major breach of regulations in the last 10 years. The evidence referred to above should be asked by the competent authorities, not by the editors. How can a gamemaker possibly know all this information? Not at all. This is about data that only the Ministry of the Interior can access. Even moreover, one of these data cannot even be reached by the Ministry of the Interior, because it is presented in the case of investigation and investigation is not all-powerful. For the above reasons, I asked for the removal of a member of the 11th law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67777	Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Dubravko Bojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67778	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, if we are not destitute in something, but we are richer than others, these are betting houses and casinos that are on every step, and so on and close to schools, which meant that today every third teenager in Serbia is a gambling addict. I'm appealing that this guy's facilities can't be located near a school half a mile away. I know a measure like this wouldn't cure addiction, but it would cut it anyway. The bill regulates the conditions for entering the toy room, the obligation of game editors to provide the player's database, the number of passports, the address, the time of entry and exit from the playroom, and then to sign a statement under full material and criminal responsibility that he participated in gambling for his name and account. This is all good on paper. In practice, however, it is quite different. It is most important for a game editor to bring money to a playroom that he will by the way not take, but will remain in the playroom, and who is the face, passport number, address, for a game director is just as important as the sign in the horoscope, whether he is cheering for the "Star" or perhaps what number of shoes he wears. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67779	National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 13th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67780	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, sometimes happy winners are also unfortunate losers. I'm going to describe a winner, a loser. It is about Nebojsa Zelenovic, the president of the municipality or the town of Sapca. So he was indicted by a three-member court council, now already convicted, of embezzling fivem euros. Remember, embezzlement is five million euros. It's the one that goes with Gilas to the European Parliaments, so there's Tanya Fajon, you know, and then she's on their side and she says, hey, we'll deal with you around the hotel and so on. So it's not exactly instructions for ladies to make arrangements around the hotel, but my God. She's from Slovenia, and in Slovenia there are some other standards. I didn't mind that, although I wasn't even into coffee concessions, I have to admit, Mr. Orlic knows that. So, the gentleman, who complained about everything and everything, forgot to tell Tanja Fajon that he was a lucky winner of five million euros, and the courts... What are strange institutions? The court says so - a three-member court council gave him a fine of 50,000 dinars yesterday. Look out, 50,000 dinars if you accidentally get drunk and sit on a bike and you go to the village of Novi Karlovci and if you're so little more drunk and if the police stop you, the punishment, for God's sakes, since this has been repeated, is far greater than these 50,000 dinars. So, an adjective cyclist pays a bigger fine than the president of the town of Sapca, who embezzled five million euros? So the message is - better to be Gilas's president, better to be in the Alliance for Serbia and to impregnate five million euros than to be a cyclist in the village of Novi Karlovci. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67781	Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed a search on all amendments, I conclude the examination of the bill in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 9th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Duvan Law. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the Amendments and Supplements Act. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67782	The amendment was really technical, I would say, character and it's good that the government has accepted this amendment, but it would be even better if the government, Mr. Minister, and maybe you should do it early next year, actually propose a brand-new tobacco law. This one changes seven times. Believe me, there are a lot of problems, not just these formal ones that we've intervened here, but essential ones. More and more people in Serbia are dealing with tobacco production. There are many things in the context of these productions and placements, trades, and this is a real problem. I spent the past two, three months in the municipality of Ruma, in the village of Hrtkovci, where I did certain jobs there as a member of the defence team Vojislav Seselj, talked to people, and there I met many people who came to Hrtkovci, who were expelled and expelled from their homes, so they came and lived in Hrtkovci. There they were in the territory of Republika Srpska dealing with tobacco growing and here they continued. Indeed, when I talked to these people, and in Sapco, too, where a lot of tobacco is produced, these people have a lot of problems and a lot of ideas so that the state can help them and really improve. It's a lucrative job and we need to force our people, our peasants to deal with it. It's not even an easy job. That's what anyone who does it knows, but that's why you should really start proposing to us and that laws are passed here that will specifically help as many of our people as possible. Let go of these formalities, it says in the directive, the EU said. There's no use in that. Here, Minister, an idea - give the new draft tobacco law early next year, so we can help that people together.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67783	The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67784	So, we could hear certain qualifications for some of the European MPs, the Euro-parliamentarians we saw in the National Assembly leading the main word, and I think that if something that should essentially change in Serbia, it should also be the sea, we saw that such a situation, unfortunately, came from Euro-parliamentarians, former or present ones, is not so important. That's how the practice of working in the National Assembly changed. No longer debated by emergency procedure, various agenda points are no longer joined. Now with the budget we don't have another 76 points of the agenda, and that's the situation we had here, I'll remind you, until last year, when we had more than 70 points of the agenda together with the budget, and otherwise the budget should be the most important law the Assembly has passed and the time should be devoted exclusively to that law. That's what we had in this session for the first time in November, even with these laws that we have today. So, the laws that we are only making to fulfill some form, and this particular form is chapters for Serbia and the EU's accession, do not contribute to a better standard, a better situation, a social or economic or any other, of our society. We, in order to do something fundamentally, need to take our problems seriously and then act to solve them, not to think that if we bring these laws and others just to be commended or to have our chapter checked out somewhere, that we will solve anything in Serbia, then we are in great error.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67785	National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 5th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67786	We, Mr. Minister, have insisted for years in this meeting of the Serbian Parliament, when the Law on Encouragements in Plant Production was in place, that the state be defined to prevent the grey flow of tobacco products and the illegal market, for larger subsidies to domestic tobacco producers. It has been known for decades or perhaps a century and more that many households have lived and lived in Machva and Srema in tobacco production. And who today would risk getting involved in something that's a cut-up tobacco smuggling if they had an incentive from the state and could legally be involved in this business as a family business? However, the regulation adopted two years ago, when it comes to plant production and tobacco production, does not go hand in hand to small producers. It is precisely many such small producers that are actually affected because there are many of them, because that rule requires some standards that they financially cannot do without the help of the state to endure. If you look on one side, and Prime Minister Ana Brnabic said at the end of last year that almost 20%, 25% of tobacco smuggling has now been reduced, that it is, but we are taking it with a really large reserve, because in this year, there have been many cases of cigarette confiscation, above all, of cut tobacco. If you were to invest money instead of spending on these unnecessary agencies, it's hundreds of millions of euros, to give subsidies to these people, you'd be safe, it's done so normally in every country, so that you could bring the whole production into legal flows, because it would be worth it to them.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67787	National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 9th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67788	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the tobacco law includes and the production of raw tobacco, the making of raw tobacco, the making of cigarettes and traffic. It's a comprehensive law. I'm particularly interested in this first part - the production of raw tobacco. With this in mind, there was a provision when the tobacco law was first passed, it seems to me in 2002, there was a provision that was included on my initiative in the tobacco law, that it seems to me that 50% of the domestic tobacco must be included in the cigarette manufacturer, so the cigarette manufacturer is obliged to use a certain percentage, and it seems to me that it was 50% of the domestic tobacco. That, I think, should be returned in a certain way, I'm not quite sure how, but it would be worth paying back, that kind of provision, because it would speed up the production of domestic tobacco. In this regard, I am obliged to warn not only producers of raw tobacco, but producers of cigarettes and those who traffic on small and large, to traffic tobacco, to stay away from smuggling, that the penalties are very large. I especially warn farmers who are threatened by high sentences to lose certain fields and trails if their tobacco is blacked out and sold in black markets. Everything else, in my opinion, is fine with this law, but we have to guard the smuggling, because every kilo of smuggled tobacco that cuts out and goes to the market, not only harms the Republic of Serbia's budget, but if the perpetrator gets caught, then threatens to lose a large penalty and part of his property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67789	Thank you. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 15th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67790	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is the law, as we've already heard, which has experienced more changes and additions. With my amendment, I asked that the text: "from 10,000 to 500,000" be replaced by "from 100,000 to 500,000", because I believe that a reduced range of this punishment would reduce the possibility of abuse. The draft law mentions the tobacco administration, the International Financial Corporation, as well as the adjustment of the relationship between processors, exporters and importers of this goods so sought after and despite its great divergence as harmful to human health and the environment. However, we are witnessing large malfeasances over excise stamps, quality and tobacco smuggling. The Serbian Radical Party suspects all these malfeasances will be regulated by the bill. On the market, tobacco and tobacco products are operated by 21,500 operators operating in the production, processing and processing of tobacco, trade in large and small, imports and exports of tobacco. The vast majority of these businesses, as much as 95% refers to retail trade, and the fees for this job are direct revenues in the Republic of Serbia's budget. This is an activity where the state needs much more attention to influence the environment, improving the business environment, yes, but the environment is even more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67791	Thank you. The amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed a search on all amendments, I conclude the examination of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We're moving to the 10th point of the agenda. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the Bill on Amendments and Completion of the Law on the Central Record of Real Owners. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the 2nd Amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67792	Here we also submitted an amendment similar to the one you adopted a little while ago, it could have been this one, but well, it doesn't matter, it's your choice, it's something else here. This is one of the laws that doesn't bind anyone because nothing will happen to anyone if they don't respect him. Here, the simplest thing is that everyone who's looking at us eventually understands it. The tax administration, for example, and the Directorate for the Prevention of Money Laundering check whether the registered entity has performed the recording of data in the Central Register. First, how are they gonna check it out? Second, here, check and how will it determine whether the registered entity has performed the recording of that data? How do they have that information that needs to be in the Central Register? Where do they get that data? Who gives them that information? There is no such thing in this law, in this proposal, nor in this basic law, because these are amendments. As there are no sanctions, if they establish that indeed some registered entity has failed to record data in the Central Register of Real Owners, nothing will happen to him. This is really a waste of time, and here we are by the MPs and you in government and someone who's been assigned to either write or translate, whatever. So it's not all you get out of the European Union for some use. Most of it isn't, and especially not when it comes to regulations. So this is one of the laws that absolutely no one can or should respect, because no one can bear any consequences unless they respect it.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67793	National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67794	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, real owners' records. Imagine TV N1 fictitically registered in Luxembourg. The program, reportedly, is being broadcast from Slovenia, here says it re-emissions, no broadcasts. When there's no broadcast, there's no re-emission, but N1 TV doesn't have PIB, it's not registered in the APR, it's not registered in the Register of Electronic Media. She's boys. A phantom TV that wants to participate as foreign television in the election campaign. You know how sensitive Americans are when you're online and you're investigating whether the Russians' Internet had something to do with an election campaign in Russia, etc. We have released 20, 30 fake cross-border channels to broadcast sports programmes, entertainment programmes, and political programmes that are often directed not only against authorities, but also against the state of Serbia. That kind of television isn't registered here even though its business through SBB, who owns that TV, is their business here. This is where they make their income. Taxes don't pay, they say they're Luxembourg TV. And in Luxembourg, they don't pay taxes, because that's where the program doesn't broadcast. So that's one phantom that avoids two types of taxes and those in Luxembourg and these here. My opinion needs to be charged for both, but I don't know if these records of real owners will cover them, so we'll finally find out why N1 television is used by the PIB of another legal person. They use PIB “Adrie News” d.o.o. which is a domestic company, and these are reportedly foreign, cross-border television and now I ask – how can a foreign legal person use a domestic legal person? It's almost amazing and I think it's time for a basic tax and financial investigation to be conducted there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67795	National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67796	Here is the key question, Mr. Minister, although it does not directly regulate this law, but it is certainly related to the Property Act, to regulate the issue of real owners of state property. You are the deadline you set three years ago, which runs until December 31st this year, so another 11 days, have been extended until 2020. Why? Because you failed to write down all state property. More than 700 public enterprises, companies whose founders of local self-government, cities and municipalities, as well as the Republic Property Directorate, have not executed a list of nearly five million units in Serbia and are then asking the question – what is the annual loss, that the citizens of Serbia know it from that? At least 500 to 600m euros. Six hundred million euros from customs, six hundred million euros from unlisted, untapped assets. What's the penalty? What's the penalty for agricultural land, for housing units, for business space? Not at all. How can you look at it in three years? Here come the big cities. What have the great cities done? I'm from Kragujevac. Come to the property office of the town of Kragujevac. I am responsible for telling you that seven, eight years ago, no one has seriously approached this job, or the job has begun to be done by the then head of the Property Administration who went to the lawyers, because Radomir Nikolic sent him away, and he is serious about it. What do we have as a city of land? What public enterprises, public housing, how many apartments, who uses these apartments? The first thing we did in the municipality of Zemun when we came to power in 1996 was to list all that property – 750 apartments, several thousand plots, where they were built after a magnificent settlement, where the land was later plotted, and this year they pass, the property untapped and untapped possibilities of people, above all, young people who would take something to do.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67797	The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67798	Ladies and gentlemen, look at the situation we're in today, not just today, but in the past few days. So, the National Assembly works full steam, every day, soaring laws necessary and unnecessary, more unnecessary. Look at that change that took place after the European Parliament delegation to Serbia arrived. So, European Parliament delegations, former and current MEPs are the highest authority on the political scene in Serbia and they also determine the pace of work of the National Assembly and what the laws will be and when there will be a agenda, when elections, who can, who can not participate, how votes are counted, what the media is, who should be in control bodies for media regulation. So literally everything. The problems we've been talking about for the past three years are absolutely none of us. When you were somewhere in support of some initiative that came from the SRS. I only know that Mr. Minister, then as mayor of Belgrade, supported our initiative to bring the new boulevard to New Belgrade the name of the hero from Koshar, and that's the only thing the advances have come up with. We have also collected more than 30,000 signatures from Belgrade, and now that we have collected more than 100,000 signatures from Serbian citizens for the new Law on Executive Procedure and Security, you refuse to discuss it. It's clear to me that you perpetrators support, but let's do a session where it's going to be on the agenda and where we'll be able to make our arguments. We are the only parliamentary party in favour of abolishing public enforcement, and this proposal has supported less than two months from now more than 100,000 citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67799	Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have carried out a law search in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail, and generality. We're going to the debate on the 11th item of the agenda. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the draft law supplementing the Law on Infringements. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional and Issues and Legislatives and from the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67800	Earlier and how long since the right was established, it has been true that ignorance of the law can save you from and justify you from any responsibility. However, we are now in a position to amend all these laws by the citizens of Serbia, and above all this Law on Infractions, and before that of the Criminal Code, Serbian citizens do not know what is waiting for them and how they will act in a particular case of the judges for violations. On the other hand, you've imposed on the citizens a mob in the form of public executioners who will never and will not be under your control, and therefore, by radical means, answer for everything they've done to the poor people. Do you think anyone can take it anymore? Today, when a man comes out on the street, how many of these criminal provisions are, how many of these prescribed charges for everything and everything, that people don't know who's after them anymore and why. If he doesn't come into the proceedings against him, it's normal for him to have these conconsequences, and if he doesn't pay for it, and he's poor, he's got no where, for nothing, simply the people who barely survive, who bend in various ways. We don't protect criminals, far from that. We ask for harsh penalties for them, but for the ordinary world, for the people who barely survive this minimum profit you have prescribed, here you are now boasting there will be a January 30,022 dinar, and a minimum consumer basket of 37,000 dinars, and when it comes to a judge for violations, this sentence of at least 10,000 and upwards. Please, is that normal? Just remember what you prescribed by passing the Law on the Communist militia as a violation, so the House Act, that the neighbor spy on the other, so that he can report it, and that's what a professional manager does. That's how you end up this year, and the citizens are getting worse.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67801	The First Amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67802	Look at the change in the behaviour of representatives of the ruling majority and representatives of the regime in Serbia before and after the influence of NGOs somewhere since the summer and the Europarliamentaries, those who have been served, who first came here to hold training to the MPs, and after these real current, current, still in force, who have come to hand them dictatorships. So, since the absolute rejection of anything that would come from any opposition party and when we proposed and when we said that this order could not be maintained in the National Assembly, that they needed agenda points to be separated, that they should respect the Rules of Procedure, that they should respect the institutions of the National Assembly, you were deaf to it, but when the National Convention said so, the NGOs, you immediately adopted it. So of these electoral conditions, we, when we talked about it, you ignored it, when the representatives of the pro-Western opposition and the non-governmental sector spoke, you are of – I will not give anything to anyone, no matter how much they gather, to go to – I will give them whatever they want, just let them say, I will give them everything. This raises the question, and one conclusion is that, in fact, when we collect more than 100,000 signatures from Serbian citizens in less than two months, we should not follow the institutional path and hand it over to the Office of the National Assembly and hand it over to the Ministry of Justice and the public in Serbia, we should already go to the EU Office in Belgrade and show it to them in order to end something. That's the conclusion you've been making from this work and this behavior of yours for the past three years. Then as this differs from the regimes of October 5th to 2012, it is absolutely the same – just fulfilling the dictatorships from abroad.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67803	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67804	This really isn't good. You were actually changing Article 52 in article 1. Infringement laws are contained, i.e. the number of types of safeguard measures. One of the types of safeguard measures against the offence committed is the ban on participation in public procurement procedures. This just isn't normal. First, you had to write this in one, and then say in which case it is. Does this mean that someone who has committed a traffic accident will be banned from taking part in the procurement process? So, for the thousandth time only today and these days through these, as far as we have today, 12 of the bill we prove to you and show that it is not good that you blindly listen to orders, on the one hand, the EU, that national convention for the EU, which has made you here, and to whom the highest state officials had to account, and on the other hand, NGOs here who praise, the one Milan Antonijevic who mocks the Government of the Republic of Serbia, mocks you, and then explains how it was easy for him to bring, as he wrote, pro-European power and pro-European opposition to the same room. Then of course they're the ones who dictate. Imagine, Milan Antonijevic, who has declared himself an expert somewhere, I just don't know on what basis, he is the one who dictates to you and who even participates in some government commissions to draft certain laws. It's about us in the SRS really humiliating and for the state above all.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67805	National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67806	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, when it comes to institutions, judges for violations, must say that they are not equal to these judges with judges of other regular courts, and they are not equal compared to years of age and retirement. Regular judges and offenders retire from 65 years of age. However, the difference between them and judges at the Supreme Cassation Court is that judges of the Supreme Cassation Court retire at 67. Who made the difference, and according to the constitution, all Serbian citizens are equal before the law? In fact, they did this to the yellow ones to solve cases at will and to make judgments by order, in the Supreme Casation Court. As for the position of judges for violations, they have taken over, you may think, and serious crimes prosecuted by official duty, which may be fined up to 12 years in prison. What's that? State auditors, when carrying out a review instead of filing a criminal report, should be responsible for a criminal offence, file charges and judges for violations are tied to a minimum and to a maximum of one person, who should go to prison for 10 and a half years, a prison sentence of 60 days or a fine of 50,000 to 100,000 dinars. There's a difference. In addition, I must point out that the judges for the offenses are not even with the other judges in terms of wages. Their salaries are significantly lower than the judges of other institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67807	Thank you, colleague Jojic. Replica, MP Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67808	The issue of justice for citizens, of course, and the issue of concern for citizens, of course, are always at the most possible focus of the Serbian government, supported by the SNS, of course, and by the President of the Republic. About the things we're talking about, pensions certainly need to be even bigger. They are not large, although they are more sensitive than at a time when the former regime, unfortunately of this country, took care of it, but should certainly continue to grow. And the question is what our citizens can expect, and when it comes to pensions, and when it comes to wages, but also when it comes to new jobs, living conditions, in one word, is important. It has been officially announced by the president of the Republic, Aleksandar Vukic, that the issue will also be discussed in the best possible manner to be told to the citizens of the country on December 28th. Then the whole of Serbia will be able to hear that Serbia's development strategy is up to 2025, with all the accompanying details that make it. It's very important for the citizens of this country. So, to know and understand what they can expect, what we're going to do, how we're going to make sure that we first and foremost further improve living conditions, which means higher wages and higher pensions, with everything we've managed to do so far and to increase, how we expect it to grow in years ahead of us. So, from the next year, 2020, all the way up to about 2025, as much as it could cover one first term. Of course, if that's how it's done, we can say with great certainty, it's not true when someone gets up and says -- well, citizens are getting worse, just because they want to send a political message. It's important to be realistic and it's important to appreciate every once-in-a-mile of highways, but also every result shown, the already provided result regarding the fate of the people. You've seen, and these young people, the best students, the example of working out, the medical college, when the state comes out and helps out, secures a job, and then young people who will be able to solve their housing issue in a favourable way, because today Serbia can, to help financially on its own... (President: I thank you, colleague Orlic. )......................................................................................................... I end up, or through programs that will allow young people, for example, to work, provide their first car. So all that does is what we would call the achievement of the Serbian dream, the perspective in this country and the good space to plan here both the future and the family and to build together with everyone who is the people of this country together. That, I believe, is the right approach, responsible, serious and approach that is primarily directed towards those who need to look into their eyes today, and these are our young ones.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67809	First authorized by this point, right on the line, MP Alexander Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67810	First of all, Mr. Orlic, we never said that Serbia is a disaster and that everything is so black and everything else you have said, but it's not true what you're talking about. So, you've now crossed from your promises to the announcement of the day when there will be some new promise. You just didn't give us a basis to believe it. Why? Because you have already failed many promises, so you have not fulfilled them. You haven't filled out the various factories that were supposed to come to Serbia, from the plane parts, i.e. For Boing, to Mercedes Serbian, to the chip factory, you promised not to touch your pensions, and then you cut them down, three months just passed from that promise. How can anyone believe that today? You've said more than one time how we live incomparably better now, boasting of certain "Ding Business Lists", some other lists. Of course, it has nothing to do with real life in Serbia, since prices and wages are not what you represent. Not you specifically, but the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You've given an excuse to cut pensions by having been in a major crisis, and you haven't taken where you were supposed to, where there were more basics, which is, above all, financing NGOs, reducing bureaucracy and reducing subsidy programmes, i.e. Regulation of the subsidy programme. You promised before you came to power 100 billion dollars in investments after you won. Nothing differs from the promise the DOS made before October 5th. Unfortunately, neither of them has been fulfilled.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67811	Right on line, MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67812	Ladies and gentlemen, colleague Orlic has pointed out certain facts regarding the situation in some of our society. When I was talking about the position of judges for violations, I just wanted to say that there is one injustice between the level of judges for violations and regular courts, the cassation, the appeal, which is why I pointed out that there is a difference when they retire, when it comes to their receipts. And I'm saying, they've taken a lot of criminal charges and courts where prison sentences were prescribed before and up to over 10 years ago. As for the efficiency of the judiciary, I'd like to say that we would have to work on having a more efficient and fairer judiciary. Justice needs to create conditions. Among other things, judges and prosecutors must be paid more, if we want them to be impartial and if we want them to make legal decisions, and these decisions mean they are made under the law. As regards the inequity of judicial practice and the competent judicial authorities, I would only point out that public prosecutors rarely raise charges against criminals in Article 208, and this is about fraud, where a sentence of up to five years is foreseen, in some cases up to eight. Public prosecutors do not want to pursue fraud, so Serbian citizens are forced to fight for themselves in another procedure, and they are mostly tormented and unable to exercise their rights. There's the same case with the Code of Criminal Procedure, which doesn't change. The damaged has lost all rights to the Code of Criminal Procedure that the yellow ones have brought. (President: I thank my colleague Jojic. ) Therefore, we must amend some of the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Criminal Code and ask the judges to be more effective and to make legal decisions, and the Public Prosecutor must... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67813	According to the amendment, the word has been made by MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67814	Thanks again. When it comes to this part of exposure that points to the need to always take care of higher incomes, higher salaries, among other things, to judges and prosecutors, we do not argue about it at all. We've even made it known a few times in this room -- well, we're the ones who've already provided these things. Let's remind ourselves - wages have been increased for both judges and prosecutors, among other things, significantly. It is one of the measures that we, as the parliamentary majority, voted in favour, voted in those decisions. Besides, there's a minister present, and we've been through a recapitulation of how many increases we've provided. This does not apply only to people who are directly engaged in justice because, you know, there have been increases for, say, examples for example, educators, also significant, for the military there have been increases, for the police there have been increases, there have been increases for healthcare workers. And I was just saying, the President of the Republic of Alexander Vukic personally shows how important this issue is to us. He personally sends a message to young people who have proven to be the best medical students or the best students in the schools involved in this work, you here in this country have a perspective. Today, the state is such as to make sure that it finds you more future in this country and to provide you with better conditions. It means first of all an opportunity to get a job. You saw, in person, Alexander Vukic stood behind it, then, it implies that this job should be in the right conditions. How much new equipment is provided today for healthcare professionals, as much as today's apparatus is secure as we could ever dream, so today people from abroad, so foreign citizens come to Serbia because today we can, first of all, our citizens, and others who need it and who want to afford it, provide this type of service, like it used to be unimaginable in Serbia, and how difficult it is today in the countries of environment and not just the environment, in the countries of Europe. Also, remember how many clinics we've built, built and built on. So today that's what Serbia is doing, today Serbia is worried about these things. Today, among other things, because it can finance it, because it has funds in the budget that, of course, we understand it very well again, important things can be invested. Serbia is a very different country today. Drastically different from the period when, once again, unfortunately for the people we all belong to, the former regime took care of this country. Because there was no money at the time for either of these things, they had no idea that they were not looking for additional work for health workers or any other workers. No, that's when everybody was going to the street, that's when jobs got lost, you remember that, hundreds of thousands. In hundreds of thousands of official statistics, shown institutions, measured, both our and our sides, people were out of work. They ended up on the street, nobody cared about them or their children. What kind of perspective story for young people then? Young people were leaving, it couldn't be measured how much, in what number, and there was no single reason, no single evidence that the state on its own side cared about them, to offer them a reason to stay or come back tomorrow. Look what we're doing today. We're looking out for these reasons that young people here can recognize space for their future. Aleksandar Vukic personally advocated, with all the power of his authority, the most significant, the greatest political authority in the country, that these things are being considered, that they are being planned. We managed to consolidate the finances. We've got a state register to invest in. He says, "Let us invest first in these young people." What else? Let's see what we can do for those youngsters who at some point went disappointed with the thieves, which is Gilas's, which is what to Jeremic, what to these others from the yellow company. Me Zelenovica, who sees the court as saying fivem euros, managed to embezzle from the city's register or its senior mentor, Shanet Petrovic. So, we all know what these people have been doing and how many young people have driven these Kabadai behaviors away from here, but today we're setting ourselves up differently. We say -- come on, we're not just going to do it, we're going to do it, we're going to see what we can do, we're going to offer these young people to think about coming back to Serbia. We are here, again, there is the minister, discussing, I would say, the revolutionary laws that we have supported and we have voted again, which give many benefits to these young people if they return to Serbia. To start their own business here, that here their own companies are reviving, if they once had them, or if they had never had them, that they now employ other young people, those who are finishing schools today, who are good students, that they have someone to work with. Let's say, with those who used to be in their skin, went where they thought they had better luck, because, remember, dark Serbia was in the past regime. Now, let's get those with the experience they've built to continue here to apply that experience so they can pass it on to someone. We have voted in measures that give excellent conditions for such people to come here, to start creating here, to form their businesses here, to other young people to engage. So we show our concern and that we do what we do most honestly, and we're in it completely. And when someone says, we have no reason to believe you, because what happened to what you said before? That's what happened. Did we talk about higher wages? We did. Did more pay come? They're here. Do we say today - we'll keep working on getting bigger? With this certainty that we have managed to make Gilas's 329 euros on average, to be 500 euros on average, we have said -- it will be 500 euros on average, and they all said in a voice -- well, it will never be, you're lying. Here's what's going on, here's the date of today where we are, December the month, we said -- well, it'll be at the end of this year, you'll see when the statistics come in December. That's what happened, that's what happened. As they said then, thinking, because they came from themselves—it will not be sometimes, it will be just a promise, it will be an unfulfilled promise. So they said, they were so confident, you remember -- well, listen, Wolfie, we don't trust you that much, not a single word that we promise you now if there's ever an average of 500 euros in salary in Serbia, here, we're all going to vote for you. What's going on now? Now we remind them. Now we ask them, do you remember everything you said? You think we forgot? We haven't forgotten, and we'll make sure you don't forget either, but come on, if you're out of words, take it, so all of you vote for whoever showed that he's 100 times better than you. Call, if you have any other sympathies in any case, some mistake remains, that he is also voting for the Wolf who has shown that he is 100 times better and more capable, and a million times more honest than you. If they're going to be words, I don't know, but we're going to remind them and we're going to talk about how big the difference is. But we're not saying that to brag about something right now. No, we're just telling you -- that's proof. Well, of course you can believe it, and when we say it -- there will be more, you can see what we're saying. If we continue, first of all, to treat our home and to improve our economy, it means that our national register will be in at least as good a state as it is today, and the goal is to always be in something better every day, every next month, that we year and not compare more with each other, but to compete with ourselves from today to tomorrow, and then we will be able to finance everything that we talk about. What we're talking about will be heard by Serbian citizens in December 28th at the level of a plan that covers years ahead of us. We were all pleased with the projection of the 2020 budget, because this projection meant both better salaries and better pensions. Let's see how much more satisfying we can be if we work this wisely, patiently, wisely, if we build our own house, build our own Serbia in the year after, and also in the one that comes next, all the way up to 2025, the examples work. At the end of this month, it will be in eight days from today, Serbia's development strategy by 2025, will be shown to the people and will be able to listen whenever it hears, understand what we are planning, what we should do, and how we can ensure that there are additional wages growth, that pensions are growing further in this country and that everyone can understand and plan how they will grow, in which they amount, so that they can organise their lives accordingly. So, if a man knew, if he had to solve the housing issue, and there are a lot of young people, and that's what we agreed on, which is what a solution is needed, how they could finance it. If they need to think about a loan, today those who can afford it, and sometimes they can't even dream about it, what's it gonna look like? If it takes a young man to buy the first car, to understand what the cost is and how he can plan it in some future. Today, thanks to the serious efforts of Aleksandar Vukic, SNS and the government that we support in Serbia can be planned. Today some certainty exists, and absolutely no one will ever be able to compare it to those dark times when all the Gilas have fatted themselves in a senseless manner. Well, by, you remember that, 619m euros were able to point to their companies' accounts. These Bastaceans of theirs, which you see now, so even today, they're stealing insolently, so they're amazing. Wherever few authorities appear to them, and not a bit of one of the richest, if not the richest municipality in the city of Belgrade, and whatever the government is, let's abuse what we have, let's pump some money, in tens of millions of dinars. We talked about it these days, and it went through some phantom companies to never realized specialized services, and all of them, and all of their people and everything in their pockets ended again. Which is for some services that have never been realized, which are planned with the municipal budget. What about those home-help activities? What about where no evidence has been delivered that any service has been realised, and millions have already been paid. Then we ask – well, what about ruining institutions like the sports center? To measure it with hundreds of millions, and why? To get more money through their services or to hire some more of your people to receive a salary there. Don't worry about anything you do during, we're talking about the time in front of us, that time is the most important. This time in the Old Town municipality, which is measured by hundreds of millions of dubiosis, hundreds of millions of damage to the citizens, that time passes. You don't understand your Bastaceans that the time has passed, you don't understand anything if you don't understand that the time has already passed, but it doesn't matter. When we talk about what and how convincing or unconvincing it is, we say that based on these measures that we are all going to implement together, we as citizens of this country, we as a people, will be additional good news when it comes to pensions. No one can prove that what's 14 to 19.5% today, there's the minister again, he knows these things precisely, so he can correct if I'm wrong, but which is 14 to 19.5% better than it was before we went into consolidation measures, so I guess it's pretty clear to you. We have good reasons to say – we want to do now, make it even bigger in years ahead of us and continue to raise it with good, good bases, so that nothing in this country is ever under question again, to question whether these pensions will be at all, not whether they will grow or stagnate, but whether they will be at all. The question has been raised and it was a big dilemma whether in 2012 and 2013, this country will be able to survive. Everyone knew that, and he confessed to the fiscal council. He even admitted it to Dragan Gilas himself and we showed you his statements. Why? Because they treated this country like it was someone else's, because they didn't care. Wealthed ourselves once again in vain, and put here at risk that one single pension would be paid, that one single salary from the budget would be paid. Now compare this sad and sad Serbia to what it is today. I think the difference is more than obvious. Of course, when taking care of these things, then the successes are recorded and we talked about six or seven times raising the value of exports in the dedicated industry. Since some were interested in the IT sector, when, at whose time, was the sector able to achieve more than one billion euros worth of exports? That's your reality today. It's a reality for you today, so feel free to compare it with what these former regime members have shown, with Gilas at the helm, when they were staring at Belgrade, what to Vojvodina, what to Serbia. Compare this with these shames that they show on the Old Town municipality day and day, and you will understand. It's such a big difference that it's the sky compared to the ground, that what you'd say is you remember those metaphors, God versus the hatter, because that difference is so big. The policy of success, the policy of results, the policy of patient construction of the future in this country and the achievement of Serbian sleep, in the words of Alexander Vukic and SNS, is clearly being supported by citizens and the next spring. And these Gilasi, Bastacchi and other members of the worst and darkest darkness who would only return to the manger somehow and ride again, to re-marry unwittingly, so they themselves know that there is no support for them. Because they know it, they must not go out in those elections, as they confess. They've taken a good step, the people looking at their eyes can't anymore, on that side they're absolutely right. And we don't do too much of them, to deal with what Serbia expects. You'll see, December 28th, it'll be a lot of good news, and we have really good days ahead of us.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67815	National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2 of the amendment, in the same text, the People's MP Alexander Seselj, with correction, and the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophet Radet, submitted a correction. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67816	Here's the problem here. The law on violations should return to the level that once was, to the level of the governing body. At that time, they would be more efficient in solving the local, to say, violations, and what Jojic said would not happen, that judges for the crimes of the court and crimes. It's always been divided and it's supposed to stay and now, than you're experimenting on, and then in such experiments, you destroy the courts for the offenses, the way they were like the authorities for the violations, and they were really much more effective, much less corrupt than they are now. Why, among other things, are the courts of offenses corrupt and the applicants of criminal charges? Because it's such a conjecture law, we've talked about it many times. If someone were to listen to us, it would be absurd to hear how these radicals now say the Law of Infractions is a source of corruption. Yes, because that's what the congregation majority who passed the law wanted. Because imagine you're being threatened by the penalty range, here, today we've had a case in one of the laws, from 50,000 to 1,000 thousand dinars. How is it possible to commit a violation that can be so different by motives, by weight, by shape, by no means do I know what? How is it possible for someone, for example? Who goes through the red light pays 30,000 dinars and the other 50,000 dinars? How is that possible? What is the difference, what – the red light is red. Did he go through the red? What does that mean? He estimated no one would come along, and this one didn't estimate. It's simply not done well in the Law of Infractions. That's why the Law on Infringements is a source of corruption, and that's why it needs to be changed, and it needs to become a breaking organ again, and that then all those of you that you've cared, police officers, police officers, as they're not called, file charges and that the problems are solved locally, not that a man from Zemun goes, as it's called, where he goes, to the Court of Infractions.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67817	The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67818	I'd like to live in a country like this that we just had a chance to hear about. No one denies that certain positive changes have occurred in Serbia, and whether they are not to the extent that SNS is advertised. Are pensions and salaries ever higher now? Well, that's not true either. Because in 2014, pensions were reduced against the constitution, so they were taken from pensioners, which is against the constitution because pensions represent acquired rights, and salaries in the public sector have been reduced. Before that, many other cuts could be made. We hear here about local government in the Old Town municipality almost every day, more times a day than the various MPs. So from a party that keeps the Ministry of the Interior under control, that shouldn't happen. So, if there are reasonable suspicions of such a thing, it should all be investigated, those responsible should be arrested and the prosecution should deal with them if there is a criminal offence. This one's been talking for the past few months, without any effect, really just serving for the purpose of a pre-election campaign, while on the other hand, there's some blame puts on the SRS that makes the coalition government there. If this were to happen and certain people were really in crime in Old Town, I really don't know, I don't care, I'm not interested, I'm afraid the situation of the Pozeg municipality, where the police also found a series of crimes, then the prosecutor filed charges, people arrested, of all the people arrested by the SNS and SRS coalition authorities in Pozega municipality, all of whom were arrested by advances. That tells you one other thing, it's another message about you need to clear your ranks first before you hold anything against anyone else.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67819	Thank you. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3rd amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Since we have completed our search on all amendments, I am concluding a search of the bill, in general. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We're moving to the 12th point of the agenda. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the amendment and supplementation of the Transport Intermediation Act and the lease of immovable property. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The People's MP Natasha Sp submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67820	It is not good, Mr. Minister, that at the recommendation of any international authority you make such an amendment to the Law, and now you will make it very difficult for all people involved in real estate traffic, additional conditions, as you have prescribed for accountants, as well as licensing accountants, driving licenses. It's just that this has all become pointless. That there are legal frameworks, that an activity is registered at the Agency for Business Registers, that it is known what it is and simply everyone will meet the basic conditions, that there are prescribed or not prescribed already adequate working rooms for that agency. But to keep someone from doing this job normally, someone who's done it 10 to 20 years ago or imagine it, it's prescribed by some idiotic, who knows what law, or some norm of those international organizations, that someone who's ever been convicted of a crime can't do that job. Well, you are abolishing the rehabilitation institute, which exists since the Serbian Principality, in 1865, which exists in our criminal law and which should probably be the basis for helping people. You have political dissidents, a man on the other hand, who unfortunately had some criminal action, who was led against him and sentenced to justice for some traffic accident. And now, the next day can't, and if a man may be an economist, a lawyer, eventually he has any qualifications to do these jobs. You're simply playing with some things that sooner or later, they're going to end up in court and people are looking for damages, and it's not enough for you that we gave a huge amount of money out of the budget last year for various damages.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67821	The Government has submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. The Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to the 1st Amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67822	Also, when we talk about some local combinations, in Serbia, we always lose sight of two things. First, when they present themselves, according to the newspaper, as one of Serbia's biggest enemies, which they probably are, but according to newspapers and other media that support the government, we can read all sorts of things, directed against Sulejman Ugljanin, which is about to be part of some kind of conspiracy, domestic, foreign, and I don't know what, against Vukic, he wants to take off his head and other things, and Vukic defends himself so that it's just because he won't give him the chair. We could hear this several times, but perhaps a slightly different situation on the ground, in the municipalities of Prepolje, Preboj, Tutin, the coalition government at the place, are SNS and the Party of Democratic Action Sandzak, whose leader is Sulejman Ugljanin. So, because Serbs are called fascists, it speaks of genocide in Sandzak, it says that Serbia is a genocide state, that Serbs are a genocide people, recalls separatistism in Sandzak, wants Vukic's head and works together with all the living dark forces against Vukic, at the same time Vukic's coalition partner, in three municipalities, Prepolje, Priboj and Tutin. That little now sends a different message one, which is not quite clear who can figure out exactly what's behind it all, whether it's Wolfie's saving himself, by holding him in that coalition or something else. The second thing, we can hear from representatives of the ruling majority, from MPs, from all sorts of things about Nenad Cank, of course, all negative. The Separatist, the traitor, called for the bombing, wants all the worst Serbia and all the worst possible, of course part of DOS. But it doesn't bother anyone, that he's a coalition partner of local authorities at the level of the city of Novi Sad. So it's one contradiction that wouldn't be too bad to explain from the SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67823	On Article 2 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Alexander Seselj and Sreto Peric submitted a correction. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the 2nd Amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67824	In this best government in the world, there is a problem, you have a minister, your colleague, we have nothing against Mr. Sinisha Mali sitting here, but can you imagine being a minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia and that you don't mind coming to the National Assembly here? Here, your colleague Rasim Ljajic, here was supposed to defend this bill, not just this one, not this one, but a man must not enter the National Assembly. How can anyone be a minister at all if he is not allowed to come to the National Assembly to measure the MPs? You'll agree, if that's not there, here, you've been around the world, tell me if you've seen it anywhere. You're not safe. Now let's ask you how it's possible that when we talk about immovableities, leases, traffic and so on, how it's possible that local self-government didn't charge 8.2 billion dinars of rent for their business premises. Will someone be missing hair from their head for that? Is someone going to be replaced? Will someone make up for this damage? Is someone gonna charge interest? You wouldn't happen to send executors here, would you? You won't, of course, and you don't have to. You need to finish your own business, or local self-government, to finish this job. They have employees in business spaces, they have people who need to do this job, but they don't do it, they don't charge for it, because they make combinations, because they're doing the transgage-frange combination. You sit there in the business space, use the business space of the municipality or the city, you have some good business there, we'll let you go, you won't pay the rent, and at some point maybe instead of January, in February next year we'll close the deal, and then we'll just pay for some of that. Pure abuse, crime, corruption.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67825	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67826	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Law on Agricultural Land has regulated, among other things, the Criminal Code as in Article 118 of that law, the illegal upsurgence and takeover of other people's land. However, ladies and gentlemen, no one has been convicted here. There's no criminal record. Ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to the lease of immovableity, Mr. Minister, do you have any information, perhaps the minister has the information, so he can give us an answer. Do you know how many thousands of square meters of business space the Republic of Serbia has? Secondly, do you know what corruption and crime existed in the issue of state-owned business space. Do you know how they got the property? They turn the premises business, hit two, three windows and change the toilet and file a lawsuit to the court and say – by investing they acquired the right of co-ownership in one through two parts. Mr. Minister, can you help me and answer on behalf of the citizens of Panchev? Whether there were irregularities or corruption on the Belgrade-Pancevo route when it comes to Beovoz. I must remind you, 42m euros were spent on Beovoz by the Russian loan. However, what an irregularity is, 15,000 citizens of Panchev travel, are sent with students and students towards Belgrade. However, they were prevented from using Beovoz, and they used it before to use Panchev. You see now it's going to be "Beovoz" used from Lazarec to Ovca. I am now asking whether something can be done in this direction and whether Ms. Mihajlovic has punished the Pančecs. That's what I asked a parliamentary question about six months ago, I didn't get an answer. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would ask, here is Mr. Minister if he can help us and give me an answer because the citizens of Panchev are alive interested.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67827	National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. The Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word of the peoples is Ambassador Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67828	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. We saw a few days ago the signing of a commercial contract between the Republic of Serbia and the US company Bechtel - Enka for the construction of the Moravia Corridor. We talked about it a few years ago when, in fact, the first protocol was signed there, that without a tender, it would be given to the US firm Bechtel to build the Moravski Corridor, and the price was higher by 300m euros, than it was the original estimate of some Chinese companies, Chinese companies that had already built the highway "Milos Veliki". The difference is that these Chinese companies took Serbian subcontractors, they were much less cheap, but certainly more affordable, and the US Bechtel takes Turkish subcontractors. It set up a tender so that only the Bechtel could pass and no one else applied to that tender, because it was all clear. He said in a face-to-face that Zorana Mihajlovic is very sorry that no one else has applied. The price was, just to tell you once again, more than 300 million is the difference between Chinese and American offers. What kind of, then, are we talking to sound competition and respect for the law, if for one such important project there is so much money, and by direct contract, and given that this American Bechtel only operates under these direct contracts and they have had such experience in both Albania and Croatia when they built highways, huge corruption affairs? Also, several million euros, tens of millions of euros were stolen in this way, and a racket was paid to the US Embassy in those countries. We think if we pay the U.S. Embassy now, we'll get their support. It's very naive, infantile and even unrealistic. So that's not how you do it. We only show by this that we treat them with service and that they can ask us for whatever they want and that what they ask of us will be theirs. So, the story of public procurement, the process of public procurement to rule out the possibility of corruption, as only healthy competition is there, because this corruption in these processes, among other things and the direct contract, ultimately leads to something that is known in the economy as a negative selection. In order to prevent this, we need to have the process of public procurement and the conclusion of contracts exclusively in tenders, but that for all the same conditions and that all those who want to compete have absolutely the same information. That's two preconditions. We don't have that. We are dealing with laws that are not urgent for us today and yesterday and this week at all, but we are only bringing them in because of the implementation of the European directives and they do not even come into force soon, but we have seen when. So in two years, some will, and some will, when Serbia becomes an EU member. How insane that is that we've been doing all week. What are real problems and what are some ongoing issues that should be resolved as soon as possible we do not see the will to do so at all on the agenda, and that is, above all, the Law on Executive Procedure and Security, which was filed by the SRS on 17 September. 100,000 Serbian citizens signed the petition in less than two months, and you, by the way, do not want to put it on the agenda, insult both in a way and those citizens who signed it. You are blind to this problem, you do not see what these perpetrators are doing in Serbia today, and you are not interested in this topic at all. I must remind everyone that at the time of the law that the perpetrators first appeared in our legal system, it was the DS, the SNS was then in opposition and they voted against, they acted against public enforcement, and when they came to power they did not touch it, they automatically supported it, and in 2015 they supported them, earlier this year they gave them support, and the perpetrator now has all the rights and the greatest power in Serbia, with the full police escort always going to these executions and he's just absolutely interested in hunting for prey, which is the property of Serbian citizens, the most real estate. So those are burning questions, that's what we need to talk about. This can all wait. These European tutors who give lectures in the National Assembly, who ask questions here for everyone, will not be angry. If you go a little way past that respect for their orders and start dealing with our real problems a little bit.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67829	On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67830	There is one problem when it comes to the lease of immovableity and the traffic of non-mobility owned by the Republic of Serbia and already, so I think for more than 25 years no one is ready to solve. It's about buildings, or apartments in Dipos buildings. For more than 20 years there have been living families, and it's mostly smaller apartments, and there are some more serious ones, although someone who says "Diposa" and "Diposa" apartments think that I don't know what kind of apartment they are. It's really average apartments and families living in these apartments, mostly families that were avoided or displaced at a time when they were fleeing their homes, and these were then buildings and objects that no one, in fact, managed. People moved into something that was empty. In the meantime, they also had to pay for the electricity connection and take care of it and invest so much that they could accommodate those apartments. And then, there comes a miracle called Zorana Mihajlovic and put these apartments nice on the sale contest, with some fabulous prices, without being able to buy those apartments into the wars, and of course, people didn't answer. Lucky for them, no one else answered. It was so expensive that no one answered that contest. We asked Zorana Mihajlovic here if she would do it, and she promised that this ad would be re-adverted, that it would be more appropriate, that prices would be possible and that these apartments would be bought for more years for more wars. That never happened. Minister, we ask you to see, because for many of these apartments it is bigger and the right to maintain, for more than 20 years there are people in these properties and we could automatically, in fact, just turn to the court and get the right of ownership without money and dinar. You keep trying, not personally, but specifically Zorana Mihajlović and Mrs. Nela Kuburovic were, these people were at her meeting and she promised to do everything to make it happen again, to make it possible for those families to buy these apartments. Unfortunately, again, evidence that you don't take care of the people and we can't possibly do that until we change you to solve it.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67831	Thank you. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67832	The last amendment, ladies and gentlemen, and also a good opportunity to thank all the MPs who have participated in this debate until the very end. She was, I'd say, very high-quality and of course, a good opportunity to invite us to join the vote together when the voting day is scheduled. It is about solutions that will certainly welcome the Republic of Serbia and our people, besides, we have never accepted different solutions to plead, nor to deal with different things. Who has not yet understood what a public call means in the realisation of infrastructure work, such as the highway, will have the opportunity to learn. Whoever did not read the Law on State Aid Control will also have a clear opportunity. When it comes to the questions of the transge-frange relationship to the business space, I saw some good deal these days. For 150 dinars per square can be rented a space belonging to the Old Town municipality. I don't know if it's a price for everyone or just those who are personally dear and personal close to the president of that municipality, so far he's still bagging Bastac, but it's about that much where these people are wondering? That Serbia will certainly be better off when we say that we are seriously working on it, there is a good supply and a good confirmation, on the one hand, of the fact that all nurses in Serbia know that today 38% of their salaries are higher than before we started to deal seriously with finance in this country, rather than before we started implementing reforms. So 38% that's not a small difference and that's good proof that we know what we're talking about and that what we're planning on doing has coverage. There's good evidence and the fact that at the completed clinic in Nis, here it progresses much faster, much better than planned. Serbia's clinical centre will be completed before the deadline, and that is good proof when we speak, when we plan good infrastructure works. He knows the people, he trusts Alexander Vukic, because he's had proof in these things he's already seen and seen with his own eyes, and it's serious, and that's how it's gonna be. When we say it will be the Moravia Corridor, when we say a being and a corridor that will bear the name of the leader of Karadjordje, the people knows it, it is true and it is true, because he saw what Milos the Great looks like, and these are all clear evidence that in Serbia today it is doing dramatically differently in a positive sense compared to the time when they were wondering what kind of Gilas, Bastaci, Tadici and similar to them. After all, you Gilasi, Bastici, Tadici, and others like them know it best. You know what they say, here, today in their favorite tabloids today? They say – however, Vukic will be able to make up to 56% in the next election. Now, when they tell you this, it is clear to you how things stand and what the unfortunate expect. So, because things stand exactly the way they do about Serbia today, serious people are taking care of themselves, implementing the policies of Alexander Vukic and the SNS. We deal with our future, our needs and generations that come to a great stage in this country. For all these young people on December 28th, there will be an opportunity to hear how we are planning activities in this country and how it is further built in a period of five or six years in advance. There will then be opportunities to be made public and the citizens to hear about Serbia's development strategy by 2025. That's why this country, once again, has a perspective. A people who appreciate it all, and there's no reason for anyone to be angry about it, will have reason to be satisfied in the years to come. These Gilas, Bastacians and other bags, they'll be able to deal with these things for a very short time. So, by the spring as far as possible, and after all, absolutely all their activities go deep on the margins of political life in Serbia, they go deep into the dark past of politics in this country, where they belong, and some of them, for God's sake, and deep into the investigative and institutions for detention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-20-0.u67833	Thank you. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. We move to the 16th point of the agenda – PROPOSAL ON DANISING THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA INTES A.D. BELGRADE AND RAIFESEN BANK A.D. BELGRADE BY THE PUBLIC PUBLIC ‘SRBIAGAS’ NEW NOW, ON THE BASED CREDIT FOR THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE ALEKSANDROVAC - BRUS – KOPAONIK – RAŠKA – NEW PAZAR – TUTIN (III FAZA) Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the draft law in principle, and since no amendments have been submitted under the law, the National Assembly will, in accordance with Article 160(3) of the Law. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in voting day, decide only on the draft law in general. As the National Assembly carried out the examinations of the draft law on the final accounts of the Republic of Serbia's budget from points 20 to 36 of the agenda, in principle, and since MP Marijan Risticevic, writtenly, withdrew all amendments submitted to the drafts of the law referred to in those points, and that these were the only amendments submitted to the draft laws on the final accounts of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly will, in accordance with Article 160(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in the voting day, decide only on the proposals of the law in general. We'd be done with today's work. We'll be working on Monday, 10:00 p.m.
