ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55469	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the twenty-fourth special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. On the basis of the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 87 MPs attend the session. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please insert your identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 91 MPs are present in the hall, and I agree that we have working conditions. I would like to inform you that today the sittings are prevented from being attended by Aleksandar Čotric, Jelena Vujic Obradović, Milena Ćorilić and Prof. Shevarlic. We continue our work and move on to a search on item 2 of the agenda – Discussion of the work report for 2018, which was submitted by the Fiscal Council, with the proposal for a conclusion of the Finance Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending since 13 May 2019. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that today's session is attended by Professor Dr. Pavle Petrovic, President of the Fiscal Council, Vladimir Vukkovic, Nikola Altiparmakov, members of the Fiscal Council, and Danko Brcerević, chief economist. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Articles 192, 193 and 238, paragraphs 4. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search on the 2018 Work Report, which was submitted by the Fiscal Council, with the proposal for a conclusion of the Finance Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending since 13 May 2019. Do the representatives of the promoter, Prof. Dr. Pavle Petrovic, President of the Fiscal Council and MPs Dr. Aleksandra Tomic, want a word? Yeah. ) I give my first word to Professor Dr. Pavel Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55470	Dear Members, Madam President, the report on the work of the Fiscal Council for 2018 gives an overview of our activities in that year and the summary of the reports, recommendations we made to this Assembly in the dock of 2018. So in my brief presentation, I would like to give a review of the basic recommendations and the reforms that...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55471	Professor Petrovic, my colleagues have not heard. Go ahead, Professor, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55472	Okay. Thank you. So, the report on the work of the Fiscal Council for 2018 is in front of you. It provides a summary of our recommendations for fiscal policy, for reforms that we consider necessary to lead to a healthy public finance system. What I'd do here, I'd give a brief review of the basic reforms and measures that I think we should, which the fiscal council thinks should be implemented and adopted. Some of these measures and reforms have been initiated and are in some phase, others are announced, and the last set of measures seems to be delayed. The first block I'd like to talk about refers to the pension system. Pension system regulation is going in a good direction, but in our opinion, with unnecessary delays. In 2018, the Fiscal Council proposed that the Interim Pension Reduction Act be abolished. It was then rejected, so that after a year the Government would accept it and this Assembly would adopt it, and it is now applicable for 2019. On the one hand, it is good that this is done, as the Fiscal Council has suggested, it is bad that it has been unnecessarily delayed. The second measure related to pension reform is the amendment of the Pension Disability Insurance Act adopted by the Assembly last September. The fiscal council negatively assessed certain provisions of the law, above all, that pensions are determined discreetly, that the government and the Assembly determine pensions discreetly. This does not know good European practice, but not even the practice of the previous Yugoslavia. Then we also suggested that the provision be abolished. We haven't come to an understanding. We suggested that the pension indexation system be abolished and introduced. We also proposed alternative formulas for that pension indexation. Even then we didn't come across an understanding, but now, after a year and something, the government comes out with a proposal for that system to be arranged, to introduce a Swiss formula, and again on the positive side is what it's going to be done. On the negative side is why it was initially rejected and rejected, and this rejection went so far as to accuse the Fiscal Council, in this regard, of dealing with politics. We see that the Assembly later adopted this, and I hope you will also recommend that you adopt this proposal when it proposes an indexation of pensions. The second area is employment and wages in the public sector. The freezing of employment was introduced for 2014 and it was planned to last only a year, and in the meantime a detailed analysis of the needs of the state administration, health care, education, police, military, etc., all what the public sector is doing and that further employment, i.e. stopping employment where we have surpluses is done. This extended to six years and lasted back in 2019. For several years, and the last time we evaluated the 2018 budget, we drew attention to the fact that the freezing of employment has become counterproductive, that certain key parts of the public sector suffer and cannot work effectively, and that problem should be addressed. In the first step, to introduce something more flexible. So, to get away, they identify the largest proportions. We were thinking about 2019, but to do it now for 2020, and in the meantime, within that year, this necessary analysis would show how many and where people need to be in the public sector. On the positive side, there are now, and if again late, indications from the Government that this more flexible control will be introduced in 2020. The Fiscal Council supports this and we recommend that you Members adopt this plan. What is crucial to say is that it is only an interstep and that it is necessary to make a systematic plan in the meantime as much as necessary and what personnel in the entire public sector. The other problem with public sector employment is public sector wages, and these are payment classes and payment classes. The fiscal council actively participated with its analyses and suggestions. Last June, we did extensive analysis and study with suggestions on how to do it. We sent that to you. You have one in this report. The government then announced that in 2019, i.e. with the 2019 budget, enter the plan for payment classes. At the last moment, it gave up, and then it was announced that it would be done during this year, to be applied in 2020. Now, unfortunately, they are announcing that it will only come to the agenda in mid-2020, and this means that it can only be launched in 2021. We think it's an unwarranted delay. That's the first attitude. A second position, doubt whether the problem and the reform will be implemented at all. On the other hand, this is an important issue, because if it is not resolved, it is a fundamental issue for raising the quality of services in the public sector, doctors are leaving us, some key parts of the administration do not have qualified people who could bring jobs, some in the IRS, inspectors, the Ministry of Environmental Protection, too, in the Ministry of Finance of People who are supposed to give the highest quality analyses, lawmaking, budgeting, etc., in the EU co-operation sector and so on. Therefore, it is necessary to address this problem because it really creates major problems in the functioning of the administration. On the other hand, retaining such a system opens up a space of discretion and ad hoc pay for certain sectors, which is certainly not good. The next problem is the budgetary process and transparency. For several years, the fiscal council has insisted that the law determining the budget process be respected. This was done in 2018 and to be applied already in 2018. It's not unfortunately done. What is particularly important for you MPs is that as a consequence of this, it happens that the government brings the budget to the Committee, usually on Thursday or Friday, and already somewhere on Monday, so in three days, the budget comes to the Committee Assembly and often on the same day for a meeting or the next day for the Assembly meeting. This prevents a fundamental and serious debate about the budget, about a very important law. That is why we think that this budget calendar is necessary to really get a quality budget law and a quality fiscal policy, that it is respected, and that means that the government is already sending a fiscal strategy. The good news is that this is now the first time since 2011 the government has done so. So we've got a fiscal strategy. We're considering it now. We'll give a report and he'll come to you for consideration, as the law provides. The second is that the government adopts the budget in early November, on the first day of November, and that it sends the budget to you in the Assembly, that you have at least twenty days to analyse the budget and only afterwards enter the assembly debate and bring it to mid-December. That hasn't been done yet and that's bad. There are now announcements that this calendar will be respected. We support it, we strongly support it, and we also recommend that you act in that direction. There are two smaller ones left, but no less important, the bloc. One is public investment. Our assessment, the Fiscal Council, of the 2019 budget, was that the budget planned insufficient investments for infrastructure, roads, railways and the like, as well as investments to protect the environment. This remained in this year 2019. Why is this crucial? Because both are conditions for economic growth. It is an environment that is necessary to stimulate economic growth. It is these smaller investments in 2019 that we think will cause slightly slower economic growth than the budget predicted. Again, on the other hand, there are announcements for the 2020 budget, we have seen this in the fiscal strategy, which we are analysing, the Government, that investment for infrastructure, roads and railways will increase, and investments to protect the environment. There are also important investments in education and health care, which are also low. We support it. Of course, let's see if it happens, and we suggest to you, we suggest that you act in that direction, too. The last area he would now talk about, but during the debate, other areas can open, too, is the area of fiscal rules. Fiscal rules, the proposal is that the fiscal rules introduced by the 2010 law and started to apply in 2011 refer to the size of the deficit and the size of the possible debt. We propose, we propose this as early as 2017 and again in 2018, that these fiscal rules be reaffirmed and modernised, adapt now to the experience we have during these seven years of working in the Fiscal Council and in general implement fiscal consolidation and that such new fiscal rules are re-codified i.e. to be governed by the law. In short, two are the basic pillars of these rules. It's that the deficit is, the government deficit is very low. Basically balanced. And that goal has been achieved. Thanks to successful consolidation, the fiscal deficit in Serbia is now balanced and is structurally balanced. So it's not the result of some ad hoc higher incomes or an ad hoc lower expenditure. Since that is the case this year and this year we will probably have a balanced budget or a smaller surplus, then it would be a good thing that what it is is an existing state d is put into law and that this is done by a firmer commitment of government and state. The second main parameter is public debt. Currently, public debt is shrinking, I mean public debt relative to the country's economic product relative to the country's income and it is shrinking. It's 51% of GDP now. With this little deficit that is forecasted for both these and the following years, he will continue to fall, and he will be somewhere between 45 and 50 in a few years, and then he will go behind and below 45. So this second goal, too, means the maximum debt, should be re-affirmed again, introduced into the law. Would that be 45% plus restitution 50%? In any case, it's these rows of size and then it would be two foundations that would ensure that future fiscal policy is under control and sound. Of course, it has an impact on the country's credit rating, beyond that on interest rates, on economic development, on citizens' lives at all when you have a stable economy without inflation. We made these suggestions two years ago and we had discussions. There are now some indications that the finance ministry would like to discuss these proposals and we hope that by the end of the year these new fiscal rules could be introduced. So much for now, and of course I hope that during the discussion, depending on the questions you have, you would of course give further explanations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55473	Thank you, Professor Petrovic. Dr. Aleksandra Tomic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55474	Thank you, Chairman. President-in-Office of the Fiscal Council with the members of the Council, honourable MPs, today we have a report from the Fiscal Council for 2018, but I would rather say that the Fiscal Council, to remind in fact, for the sake of the public, is an independent state body that corresponds its work to the National Assembly and in this format, i.e. it has been working and functioning since 2011. Since we had a choice last year again, we considered it necessary and this congregation majority that this team that's been working on this job so far still works at its full capacity, which doesn't mean that at committee meetings, when reports come, we apriors agree. It is this debate on the Committees on Budgets, Finance and the Control of Public Spending, when it comes to reports on the work of the Fiscal Council, that we have one constructive approach, that many of the topics that we are opening are the ones that Professor Pavle Petrovic was talking about, that we may not see in the same way. What we had the opportunity to hear in this report is that the Fiscal Council was dealing with various topics in the past year, that, in addition to speaking and doing certain analyses relating to pensions and that formula that should lead to some fairer distribution of pensions, we also talked about salaries in the public sector and the need to adopt, even though we delayed in the previous legal set of payment classes. Then we also talked about the budgetary process, but what we had the opportunity to hear about when the budget was debated, that is, when the budget was proposed, so when you come to committee meetings, we talked about other topics, and that is especially the work of local self-government. We also had a session yesterday that referred to the DRI report and we saw that local self-government had accumulated problems from the past that no one wanted to deal with and especially until 2012, when a cross-section with the new congregation majority took over the responsibility to solve all problems. Then we saw that these problems were more dimensional, more structural and that it was very difficult to solve, because every local self-government has its own problems and these problems is the Ministry of Finance, of course, and Serbia's budget had to solve. Because when you have a local self-government like Bucky Palanca in which you have no electricity, no water due to unpaid bills, then it's about the life of the citizens of that city, and then you have a problem dealing with some things spotlessly, no matter how much finance there is in the budget, because when you see that the debt of that local self-government is 1.7 billion dinars, then you realize something that hasn't happened anywhere in any country, it's that some local self-governments are in such debt that they can't even function on that communal side. We had opportunities to speak with the presidents of the Assembly of the Local Self-Government Council of Europe. They can't understand that, because they simply didn't see it anywhere, either in non-EU countries or in EU member states. So what I'm saying is that in your analysis by 2012, we haven't had a chance to see a quality analysis for the simple reason that you couldn't come and do that job at your full capacity. You now have good co-operation, you said with local self-government, with big cities, and with the Ministry of Finance, and with the DRI, and it's simply open the way for you to be able to really do a quality analysis of every problem that arises. In addition to your analyses that are most important when the budget is made, you have seen that much is invested in road infrastructure, you have seen that much is invested in economic growth, subsidies, investments and that view of these investments, perhaps in some analyses, and has not been so supported in terms of how the government works, but we now see that this results. We see that in last year, Serbia had a level of investment of 3.3 billion euros, totaling all that the Western Balkans, i.e. the former SFRY state, has. I want to say that many things in this professional work may not agree, but I think the result of the work that Serbia is doing is moving on, going forward, giving results. What we discussed most on the boards is the issue of this formula that simply needs to strike one balance when it comes to Serbia's budget itself and raising pensions. You know very well when you were talking about a calendar that is objective reasons why the calendar is not respected in terms of the delivery of material to the MPs. Since 2013, we have always adopted the budget within the deadline and we have always gone to present, our finance ministers have gone to the IMF Assembly to present the budget adopted in the Republic of Serbia and we have never hidden anything in that budget, unlike those that led to a variety of expenses, debts by various banks, just so it doesn't show in the budget how much public debt and economic downturn by 2012. We are pleased to have the opportunity to have a real debate with you and to tell you what our views on Serbia's economic growth are about the part where we now have surpluses and how wages and pensions should be increased. We adopted your 2018 report on the Committee, by giving you and us the task of organising certain gatherings and public hearings in which simply all interested subjects on this subject should be called upon to give their opinion from whom we should show some other approach you may not have or simply the IMF sometimes surprise us with its decisions. So in that part, we have to move. I think it's good that we have this topic on the agenda today, and I think that in the future I really do announce the continued good co-operation of the Fiscal Council and the Committee, even though I say, we can't agree on maybe 100% of your report in certain grades, because once we saw those assessments as political characters, and it's been repeated over and over again. Don't mind that, but we think that many of your sentences, some of your political points have been used by some parties to criticise the government, to simply try to show that we don't run a good economic policy, and the results show quite the opposite. The critical opinion is good, your views that you say in certain analyses show a very good way to go, but it is good that you have entered institutions very deeply to see what are essential problems and local self-government, and state administrations and tax administrations that are practically in the reform process, as well as economic reforms that are now entering another, third phase in Serbia. I think it is very important that we go together and work together, and when we discuss your reports, that we have a really good picture, which we can show to the citizens of Serbia how much of your recommendations have been accepted, and how many of these recommendations are not accepted and how long it will be accepted. So there is much that cannot be accepted overnight, but the most important thing is that the citizens of Serbia live better than all of our analyses, than all of our decisions, made here in parliament. That's why in the voting day we'll support your report and vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55475	Thank you, colleague Tomic. We are now going to report to the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups. The word has been made by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. Here you go, Mr. Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55476	Dear Vice President of the National Assembly, the distinguished guests of the Fiscal Council, ladies and gentlemen, are here to give their opinion on what direction our country is headed. Since the founding of the Fiscal Council I have met with you in a more or less unchanged composition, on various issues, I have read your reports carefully, and I would say every time these reports were indeed balanced and that they gave a lot of good recommendations and a lot of good analysis. This time I can say the same thing, and in my presentation, I will look a little more at things, which I think are essential and can be good policy-making advice that will finally help Serbia, once Serbia has managed to stabilise public finances, which is a prerequisite for all the preconditions, that the economy is moving, without stable strong finances, there is no low price, debt refinance, no cheap debt for new investments, there are no new investments that are not abundantly watered by subsidies or some special benefits. On the other hand, it is a prerequisite for all preconditions, and I welcome it, which is highlighted in the Fiscal Council report. Fiscal stability is the basis for civilised and successful society, responsible society. But what is one major challenge to the Serbian economy is how to get between one satisfaction with the stability achieved in a position where structural reforms give a strong boost to growth. When we say today that Serbia's growth rates are three, four, four and a half percent, depending on what happens, which year, with us, we're still quite exposed to God's will, we've been lagging behind for decades so that our agriculture doesn't be like that, we still have some public systems, which, when they're in doubt, can significantly lower estimated growth rates. We do have a great challenge in Serbia to get into a situation where we grow very quickly, at the rates of growth that are as high as possible. It is not three to four percent, it is not four and a half, Serbia that would implement structural reforms in the long term could grow five to six percent each year. When someone says -- and why is that one percent important, why is four percent not good enough? I'll say it's good, but it can always be better. If the United States, since its founding in 1776, that is when the Declaration was declared, independents have become something later real, they only grow one percent less every year, only one percent, today they would be at the level of some other U.S., the United States of Mexico, and that's that difference from one percent. We don't feel one, first, second, third year, but at the end of 10, 15, 20 years it becomes a big difference, and after a century it becomes a civilization difference. Therefore, the struggle of every government, which has led Serbia, should be to draw maximum growth, and therefore I deeply appreciate your suggestions that you have made, both in the documents that you have provided to the competent bodies of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and in this final report, where you have given a lower one of what you have reported. The key fiscal challenge in Serbia is no longer stability, I guess stability should be unquestionable for all time and in a country that really wants to be a champion, a champion who goes forward, a balanced budget could even be one category that has a constitutional foundation, a solid constitutional foundation. Of course, fiscal rules are very important here, and I'm going to look back on that. I agree not to agree with anyone's assessment, reasonable people will always say thank you, because everyone's advice is given in the will that whoever you advise at least works better. The basis of everything is to be grateful for the advice we receive. At a time when we had an intense discussion some five years ago, I was grateful to you and for what we did not agree on, although, especially when it comes to what is not the first area of what you do, about the micro-economy, we mostly agreed on the macro-economy. Today I am grateful to some of you who said long ago, there is not just one silver bullet that can solve the issue in Serbia, the approach must be multidisciplinary, we have to throw a lot of things to move forward. That's a big truth. It is good that some of your advice is accepted, for some I regret that it is not accepted, but in the end you are there to advise, not to give directives on what to do. I'd like to look back on some of the things you mentioned here, as far as this second part of the report is concerned. The first part is done more than correctly and gives a review of your work, gives some of the savings you've had, that you've spent less and more than budgeted things. What I can deeply welcome is the need to think about a new method of calculating public sector wages. It's something that matters if we want to have a public sector that can be a true service to the economy. At this point, we have big problems keeping some people in the public sector, and some of us would be happy to get rid of them, and that's a fact. The best-quality people can't pay well enough for them to stay in the public sector and then lose people who could help solve some of the major problems at the level of local self-government, where the challenges, as I would say, are very heterogeneous and very different across Serbia, either at the central government level, or at the level of agencies that are one world to themselves, which deal with law enforcement. That's the facts. Also, it is necessary to improve and make the Serbian public sector pay system as much as possible to remind the systems that exist in happy and orderly countries. To try to reconcile two things, which is the motivation of people to do their job well, because many have been doing it for years, not because they are motivated by pay, but because they think that their work is very important, and yet that we have solid austerity and that one mechanism, I would call it the mechanism of a forest housewife who is very similar to that of a Bavarian housewife whom we very often talk about when we want to look up to the Germans for example. I also deeply welcome that you have given great attention to the work of environmental protection. We're on a European path, we're still saying we're glad we're going, the real challenges are still coming. The moment we open Chapter 27, the challenges will be incredible. We need to think about the level of public investment that we will have to have in protecting the environment, and I deeply welcome it. Of course, part of the investment will be private, also pushed by the laws to be passed in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We will probably have a very long transitional period, probably by 2040, a part of us will pay for our future European house, the EU, but we will still have to invest a lot to ensure that our Serbia is healthy in every segment of the environment. It is good that you mentioned it in your report and we will discuss it much in the years that pass in this home and that is one great truth. The issue of environmental protection will become a very important issue, and it is good that in Serbia as much as possible to discuss life, the future, the beautiful things that will follow, maybe follow, don't necessarily happen, and it should always happen again, and that fires and fires will remain behind us. That's a good thing, and it's a good thing you're opening up to us in your reports on such issues. To welcome her in your report, you said you needed to have a public investment in infrastructure. Without public investment in infrastructure, there is no development. There is much more to invest, because we had very long periods when these investments were gone. Also, it's not just public investment, it's just part of the whole story. What triggers the country and triggers a single economy are private investments, especially private investments by domestic companies. What's very important, especially when we've discussed many times how to run this country is actually a question of how to run domestic companies to invest. Here we have a problem today, and this is one of the key issues that structural reforms need to give an answer – how domestic companies start to invest more. These people want to make money, they want to hire, but there's still something that makes them extremely, extremely careful. And that is a key issue that will distinguish Serbia, which is growing 3-4% annually and Serbia, which would grow by 5-6%. And that's a question of all the questions and questions to be answered. On our part, we are very pleased that you raised this issue in your documents, because that is what the spear will be broken long, long in the future. We welcome the proposals on fiscal rules. I am extremely sorry that one proposal that my parliamentary group has never adopted, which is that we have for years a cumulative debt of a consolidated state of Serbia that is over 45% and that simply by law, as I would say, is equal to reality, and not that we have a constant denial of those 45%, although the path of public debt is encouraging, that is true, 60% would be quite a good level of public debt, we do not have to be more Catholic than the Pope and larger members of the European monetary union than those who are in the European monetary union. There should be new rules. We support it to be a bit wider set of rules. It would be a good thing to say that Serbia's maximum debt is 60%, but that this level can only be reached in years of crisis, and that we should essentially strive to be 45%, and that debt above 45% can only happen when we have forecasts that we will have negative growth rates in some year, i.e. to enter the recession, and then the state can act unilaterally by reducing certain taxes during the crisis, by simply increasing public debt. It's a countercyclical policy and it's perfectly fine and it should be part of our fiscal rules when it can act countercyclically. We also believe that this view that Serbia's budget is always balanced at a level of 10 or 15 years is something that should be our permanent commitment, because it's the only way we can be a credible state and that's something we should insist on. The deficit is extremely, only in years when the recession is more than certain and twice consider whether the recession is coming to us from the outside or the result that we have messed up in Serbia, because neither the smartest state is able to say with precision what the extreme consequences of its policies will be and sometimes we are modest to simplify what the consequences of state policies are, whether they are fiscus, whether they are central banks, whether they are government policies. Sometimes we simply forget that the reactions of people on the market are extremely complex and that they are not passive in policy adoption. I am glad that the challenges that await us in public enterprises are highlighted. We have three other major systems that haven't been reformed to the end. It is true that the railway has moved farthest into reforms, but that there is still much work to do for the railway not to be the biggest subsidy swallower, much, much work, but that it is better to solve this business with investments, reasonable schemes to reduce the number of employees and to try to make the railway look like railways in the countries of the West. It is also pointed out with the right that we only put out the fire in "Srbigas", if there remains a similar system of price formation for the domestic market, and that the fact that in "Srbigas" does not make a loss as before does not mean that it will not happen if gas prices change on the world market. It is very good that this is highlighted, because sometimes we love, happy that some circumstances have changed, to say that the problems have been solved. As the drop in the price at which Serbia refinances debts partly due to Serbia's economic policies, partly due to what is good in the world and that these things can change, the same finding applies to "Serbia", one part of the problem can surface again. Also, it's the same thing with the EPS. The EPS has not solved the problems, nor are they close to being solved, the EPS has yet to do much, much work, the EPS is uninvited. This year in Obrenovac we had big problems with supply, big problems that will ultimately reflect on the final growth of the social product, and that is a fact and should not be grumbled before that and these are problems that should not be buried under the carpet. Also, it's the same with state-owned enterprises. It's a good thing there are only nine other big companies now, and that's only 15,000 people, much better than when they were tens of thousands, if not hundreds of thousands of people hanging in the air and a lot more companies. But these nine companies are still not resolved to the end today, and this process can never be sufficiently fast and comprehensive. Speaking of measures, it would be good to think, although our plans and fiscal strategies are three years old, even though our economic reform plans are three years old and there is a certain revision every year, that we need to have plans that are eight years long, because that is the only way we can solve the key challenge, which is to reduce the wage burden. If you were to ask the businessmen in Serbia why they were afraid to invest and hire, they would say – impose wages. It's an area where there's not much done, almost nothing. It's nice to see that 1% of this year's taxes have been lifted from unemployment insurance, but the main job is yet to come. If we have growth rates that are from 3.5% to 4.5%, they could be bigger if any of these were to be adopted, and that's a fact, then that money needs a new one that can be taxed, because GDP is higher every year, you have real money at the same tax rates and 4.5%, if GDP is growing 4.5%, 4.5% higher budget of the Republic of Serbia, that all that money is not spent on salary increases, that all that money does not go into public investment, but that part of that money goes into a reduction in tax burden every year. If you had an eight-year plan that reduces wage burdens every year, especially on the lowest wage, you could fundamentally reduce this to about 35% in the course of eight years, and make Serbia a permanent country that is not at risk of sinking to the low growth rates that exist in some countries that are much more developed, because they are much more developed than we are. We can follow other people's experiences. In fact, it would be a very, very important recommendation and something to talk about, how to lower wages and how to give our economy the opportunity to wave, because our businessmen are smart, and the smartest ones are where to deal with these problems that they can easily solve, as in the IT sector, for example, are easier to get around. It would be good if no one were to go around things and that everyone had the opportunity to be competitive, just because our country could become cheaper and more efficient. It is a key challenge that stands before us, which has not been done enough so far, how to create a less-consuming Serbia. On the other hand, I would like to see your opinion that from the growth that we will have a part of the money not to spend, but to focus it on tax cuts, especially on wages, because our businessmen say – this is the biggest problem. No problem with profit tax, give us a chance to make money, then tax us not 10, 15, tax us and 25%, but let's have something to be taxed. On the other hand, it would be extremely good for it to happen and I'm just saying it's my sort of consideration, of course, not giving God that I'm actually trying to influence you more than I'm suggesting, you're independent and you need to stay exactly as you are today. To conclude, in your report, I have nothing to say wrong, sometimes I may not agree on everything, but this report is written more than correctly and a report that should be supported. Starting with your techniques that are inevitable to tell about your finances, who you've been seeing, how many conferences have you had, who have you advised? I don't have anything to add and say it's bad, on the contrary. Also, as for the meat that are your basic products, your advice was such that it was of great benefit to me as an MP, and hopefully to the other colleagues, and I hope that the executive authority had a similar opinion, on the other hand your report is for every commendation, and our MP group, although it is generally not in favour of most of the laws that are in this National Assembly, your report can support calmly longer and say that it is simply a very bright point in the Serbian state administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55477	Thank you, Mr. Stevanovic. The People's MP, the head of the SPS parliamentary group, Mr. Djordje Milicevic, came forward. Here you go, colleague Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55478	I haven't heard from my colleague Marinkovic, but it looks like it's easier for you to call me, so then, probably after that, you're saying, I don't mind, of course. Dear Representatives of the Fiscal Council, the Honorable President of the Fiscal Council, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, of course, that the Fiscal Council is independent and we have absolutely no intention of affecting you, but of course we are always ready to have a debate and open dialogue both at Committee sessions and here in Parliament, when topics are important and when topics concern the lives of our citizens. I just want to start my discussion with a statement that says this - independent institutions don't always have the same view with power, but that's also good, because if it were different, it would be a question of what they serve in the first place. Which is fine. We don't have any kind of pressure, but we have a clear mandate for why the Fiscal Council deals with economic growth. We clearly see that Serbia and other countries of the region have a large outflow of young people and labour forces to stop this absolutely necessary increase in living standards and economic growth in Serbia. This is a statement from one of your members of the Council. I absolutely don't mind, I respect your independence, but what I'm trying to say is that this kind of statement is often heard by a representative of a part of the opposition. I don't want to believe that this is what you wanted to do with politics and politics, but it's fact. You know, it's easy to run politics from cabinets, make reports, deal with theory, and reality is something else. On the other hand, here versus yourself you have us who also have a great responsibility. We are someone who has legitimacy, trust of citizens, Parliament is the voice of the people, and we here in parliament are talking about exactly what this statement is talking about, and that is to talk about alternatives to how to get to as high-quality legal solutions as possible that will be in the best interest of our citizens. Of course, that means better living standards, better for our citizens, that means, of course, economic growth. What we'll seem to agree on at first, because we won't agree on all things, but it's not good that we're thinking the same thing, because if we were thinking the same thing, it means we weren't thinking enough. So, we believe that Serbia is on the right track and that a positive trend is visible and recognizable and is in certain segments of your report and found. It is a recognizable and positive trend that leads to improvement, but a improvement based on what we stand for in every sector, which is healthy and realistic. It is important that, in our opinion, we preserve what we have achieved at this time in the area of economy and finance and that you start the processes to bring an end. Public finances are safe and stable and we with optimism, I'd say, we can look at the period ahead. The hardest part of the job, we believe with certainty it's done well, but it's not finished. What is coming is that in the right way, first of all, the rational way in the future, we benefit from that, that is, to preserve the results that we have achieved, to preserve difficult fiscal achievements and to accept all the incentives and initiatives leading to growth and development. Among other things, some of the initiatives you're talking about in your report. In our view, three key words are when we talk about the reform course of the government of the Republic of Serbia at the moment, and these are reforms, growth and development. The foundations, as you know, of the Serbian government's reform course were set in 2014. Someone had to make that decision because we were in front of a financial bankruptcy. So, in 2013, in December 2013, when we adopted the budget, Serbia had two directions. One direction was a list of good wishes, what citizens would like to hear, which sounds nice, and which would lead to financial bankruptcy and financial collapse somewhere in 2016/2017. A year. The other direction is the unpopular one, and these are unpopular political measures, difficult reforms. You say you speak the language of numbers. I fully agree, but from 2014 until today results are achieved above the targets defined for the current year. It's always good to raise the scale up, and we think it's good for Serbia's future, we think it's good for the future of every citizen in Serbia. I return to the statement, because we are conducting an open dialogue, according to your comment on the World Bank's assessment, so that Serbia could have a 7% economic growth on the longer term, you say, or one of the members of the Council says -- that is possible if seven million Serbs were replaced by Germans and the administration was introduced as it is in Germany. Correct me if I'm wrong, so are the media. Now, neither we are Germans nor we want the German system, we need a system that is suitable for our current economic condition, and we are ready to accept all the good things from some other countries that we can adapt to our system. I think you wanted to be a little funny, sarcastic, but now I tell you, I don't know what's worse, but I don't think you've thought about it in the other direction, that it hurt someone who's dedicated, who's worked hard in the past time to get these results, who's put forth a lot of work, work, commitment and energy. On the other hand, you might think a little bit about Serbian citizens, if you hadn't hurt Serbian citizens in some way by saying you'd replaced them with seven million Germans. I don't want to believe that these statements, as I said, are politicized and that you wanted to use them in any political context. We will reach this system, or these results, if we have what is essential, which is political stability, and believe us, we will have political stability. Thanks to responsible and difficult, unpopular measures, we have today a healthy system based on sound foundations, based on life and economy, not on politics and politics, and not on the list of good wishes. Today it is quite clear that we were right when we started reforms and when we said that it was about reforms and about measures concerning Serbia's future, about measures concerning the future of each Serbian citizen and that we should not simply look at those measures when we had the opportunity to hear from individual members of the opposition, about the actions of the opposition, about seizing salaries, about taking pensions, no, we are talking about measures to save the Serbian economy. Thanks to these very measures today, it is perfectly clear that we are right and a good basis for increasing wages and pensions has been created. So we have an increase in wages and pensions, and we have a plus in the holding register. It would be irresponsible and unserious if we had an increase in both salaries and pensions, to get more out of the republican budget, and to have a minus in the state register. So, however, it is domestically and rationally available for what has been earned. When it comes to the formula for calculating pensions, which has been said for a little while, the most important thing for us is that pensions are stable, several models are being considered. Retirement is on a satisfactory level in the budget. Real growth in the economy, inflation growth and consumer prices should be seen. I think we have fully realised two objectives, and this is also a continuous reduction in the public debt of GDP and a permanent reduction in the budget deficit. Serbia is in 48th place today, I think, on the world's Duing Business List, and before the reform processes started, we were 91st. On the other hand, political and economic stability with preconditions, i.e. incentives provided by the government of the Republic of Serbia, potential investors, above all I mean smaller bureaucracy, faster licensing, has contributed to Serbia being an attractive investment destination. We support the concept of public reform and strengthening the private sector, we absolutely have no dilemma there. We know how difficult it is and we support the measures taken when it comes to the public sector, but we think it is very important and we need to do an analysis where there are surpluses, and where there are shortages of public sector employees, so that we have a more efficient public sector as a whole. During the process of rationalisation so far, savings areas have been found, but the quality of public administration work and the functioning of the system is not affected, which is extremely important. Serbia is one of the countries, this is the data I received from representatives from the Ministry of State and Local Self-Government for 2018, Serbia is one of the countries with the least public administration employees in Europe. If the number of public administration employees compares with 100 residents and after two rounds of comprehensive rationalisation of the number of employees in Serbia, today we have 6.4 employees in the public administration of 100 residents, while the EU average is 8.5. I'm just talking about the data I got and got it. You're talking about a mature time to lift the employment ban. We believe that controlled employment has achieved certain positive effects. A new model is needed, we agree, in order to overcome existing problems, in terms of those who have an optimal number of employees and financial resources, to provide a model without consent. As for the private sector, I mentioned it a little while, we fully support Serbian President Aleksandr Vukic's announcement of subsidies to private companies for the purchase of new equipment and up to 50%. The private sector is, in our opinion, the future. It is of great importance to the state on the one hand, it means new jobs, on the other side of the country lives on taxes and taxes that it collects from company profits. A lot has been done when it comes to public enterprises. Respecting all the findings and all the things you've made in your report. What is it that we specifically expect from public enterprises? Efficiency, to make more efficient use of resources, to be more rational, to generate less budget costs and to invest to make the best of the services they provide to citizens. You have stated in your Report, three companies: railways, where reforms have been seriously approached; Serbiagas, which has become profitable since 2015 and the EPS, say, has the most complex problems, although it is envisaged to solve the EPS problem and in the field of digitisation, and the goal is to reach the level of developed European capacities. In the report, too, you are talking about reforming the public finances of local self-government. Of course local self-government must move within the frameworks provided by the Ministry of Finance. You're saying that you've done a comprehensive mid-term study, it seems to me in 2017, with some recommendations and that the situation has improved somewhat. We were able to talk to DRI representatives during yesterday, which is again related to local self-government and the topic I'm talking about, and some of the two key things are very important, which is education and quality internal control. I'm not saying the situation is ideal, but if it hadn't been for domestic behaviour, local self-government wouldn't have contributed to the good results of fiscal consolidation on the macroeconomic plan. In addition, in the report, correct me if I'm wrong, you're talking about four cities, four local self-governments. There are 174 local self-governments in Serbia. Now, just a few sentences when it comes to indicators, since you speak the language of numbers. What is it that the Benefinites are and what is it that I've been talking about for a little while? For example, the new minimum labour price and increased compared to 2018 by 8.6%, the minimum minimum value exceeds 27. 1,000 dinars. The unemployment rate in 2013 was 25.9%, and now it fell to 12.1%. The average net earnings charged for March 2019 amounted to 54,271 dinar. The net earnings growth in January-March 2019 compared to the same period last year was 9.5% nominal and 7% realistic compared to the same month of the previous year, the average net earnings for February 2019 was nominally higher by 9.9% and realistically 6.9%. It has been reduced, for a little while, by a profit burden, as since 1 January 2019, contributions for unemployment on the employer's terror amounting to 0.75% and that is the burden of the budget, 12 billion dinars have fallen annually to the burden of the republican budget. In the 2019 budget, the state allocated 19 billion dinars more for public sector employees' salaries, and public sector salaries, from January 1, 2019, increased by 7 to 12% by the phase-out of the law on the temporary regulation of the basis for the payment of salaries, i.e. earnings and other permanent incomes from public funds users, increased salaries in the public administration. The proposal for a law supplementing the budget system was adopted on 21 April 2019, which increased salaries for pre-school staff by 9%, starting in May 2019. Pensions have been increased due to the suspension of the temporary pension reduction law. The Assembly won the Law on 29 September 2018. Real GDP growth in the first quarter of 2019, compared to the same period of the previous year, is 2.5%. A reduction in public debt, I will remind you once more, was ahead of a financial bankruptcy. Serbia's public debt amounted to 23.77 billion euros on 30.04.2019, accounting for 51.1% of GDP. The share of public debt in GDP decreased by 2.7% compared to December 2018, when it stood at 53.8%. We have a surplus in the budget. In the first four months, a surplus of 5.5 billion dinars of the republican budget was reached. Since I have little time left, what I think is very important, with the 2019 budget for capital investments, what you were talking about, is 220 billion dinars, 30% more money than the previous years. In the past five years, 180 factories have been opened in Serbia. New highways are being built, railways are being restored, we are connecting with European corridors, although you are criticising the slowness when it comes to Corridor 10. We think it's a very important and important project. In 2008, when Milutin Mrkonjic spoke about the project as the minister of infrastructure, it seems to me that few people believed in the project, and today I think most people realize that there is no economic without infrastructure development. In foreign direct investment, 1.2 billion euros this year, 14% more than in the same period of the previous years. So Serbia continued its regional leadership in attracting foreign direct investment. During the previous year, we attracted 3.5 billion euros in foreign direct investment, and all other countries together in the Western Balkans did not reach 2.5 billion euros. Industrial production increased 1.3% in 2018 compared to 2017. Finally, the draft budget law for 2019 itself is the result of the continuation of reforms. Three features of the budget are significant. What you're up for, of course we are, and that's the standard of living for citizens, discharging the economy and, of course, capital investment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55479	Thank you, colleague Milicevic. Dr. Pavle Petrovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55480	To include myself in not forgetting the presentations, and I'm glad, I think they're productive and very important issues are being considered. I'd just like some clarifications and some reinforcements. I'm glad local self-government got into the focus again and your attention. We did that analysis exactly two years ago. The analysis refers to all local self-government, and four cities were specifically analysed. From then on, we looked at these analyses from time to time, and we looked at these data, recommendations, and things like that. I think it would be a good suggestion if the Assembly were interested in us doing it again now after two years to go through analysis, recommendation, and then re-affirming that thing and moving on about solving the problem. The other big topic that was emerging here is investment and especially foreign direct investment. Mrs. Tomic and Mr. Milicevic talked about it and it is true, foreign direct investments are high in Serbia and comparatively with other countries in the environment they are slightly larger. Where we have a problem, and this is pointed out by Mr. Stevanovic, these are insufficient domestic investments, the domestic private sector. Mr. Milicevic suggested that the domestic sector should grow and draw attention to subsidies and the domestic sector. However, we cannot raise the large domestic private sector on subsidies. What is necessary, and Mr. Stevanovic pointed out, and that is what we point to in our analysis, is an economic environment that will create conditions for these investments to be significant. So, investments in Serbia are about 18% of GDP. That's all, and foreign, state, domestic, private, and countries comparable to us when they grew up have about 23 to 25% had these investments. This is one of the key reasons why economic growth in Serbia is below the potential it could and thus the growth of living standards. Finally, one explanation for this World Bank analysis of 7%. Actually, it's more of a technical matter than a fundamental issue. The thing is that Serbia now has the potential to grow somewhere around 3.5%, which is scheduled for this year. What Serbia could really achieve if structural changes occurred, changes in the economic environment, and thus the increase in investment, we assessed in the Fiscal Council that this could be about 5% or something perhaps above 5%. So that would be a respectable growth rate. Then we would grow faster than the comparable countries of Central and Eastern Europe and start catching up. What the World Bank did when it said it could be 7%, it used defacto, so to speak, similar to or almost the same model the Fiscal Council used in that analysis. One of the significant indicators of growth is the economic environment, i.e. the institutions of the system. You have some measures – the rule of law, the fight against corruption and similar things, and we used the same thing when we got that dependence of Empirical, Econometric, we said what would be the rate of Serbia's growth if it reached the average of Central and Eastern Europe in its institutions, plus some other promotions. So we got that 5% growth rate, which we think is real. The World Bank has done something else, wondering how much Serbia could grow if institutions in Serbia reach the German level. That's what Nikola Altiparmakov commented on and then replaced it in the equation and got 7%, as Mr. Altiparmakov said. What he said is that it's simply not a real assumption and then you can assume anything and go. So it would be quite good and affordable for Serbia to fix its institutions, which is not easy, at the level of Central and Eastern Europe, and then there would be a growth of about 5%. If it were to repair environmental institutions, as they are in the environment, it is Bulgaria, Romania, Hungary and Croatia, then its growth would be around 4.5%. It's rows of size. So, a comment with the World Bank, I don't think it helped us much. She said – you can skip three meters on the assumption that I don't know what and then when you don't, then you're dissatisfied with the 5% result that would be excellent and the only reason for that Altiparmak's comment was that kind. Last note for Mr. Milicevic. It is true that increased investment in 2019, but the structure of investment is not good. In 2019, there was little increase in road investments and nothing for the environment. It went to the Army and the police. This does not encourage economic growth, it may encourage other objectives, but economic growth does not encourage and because what we have recommended in the 2019 budget analysis and what we are recommending for 2020 is that the main part of the investment is now going into roads and railways and protecting the environment, because this will encourage economic growth, and we have indications, that is, by looking at this fiscal strategy that we are just assessing, and we will deliver the assessment to you, it seems that the Government intends to go in that direction in 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55481	Thank you, Professor. Petrovich. The right to reply, i.e. the replica, has a People's MP, Djordje Milicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55482	Dear Professor, I've read the statement and said she can be analyzed. I also said that I didn't want to believe that she had any political interference, and that when responsible and serious people make statements then they should keep in mind and what I was talking about, that someone invested, work, effort and energy to get certain results. And perhaps with a statement like this, it would hurt the feelings of Serbian citizens. But okay, let's just put it aside now. You could have taken the Japanese as an example. I personally prefer the Japanese when I talk about work. As for the recommendation on local self-government, I fully agree with you. You said technical question, mostly technical issues become sometimes essential issues. When it comes to investment, I'm glad we agree in one thing, that there's enough money left out this time. As far as investment structures are concerned, I can agree that there is much more to be invested in road infrastructure. I said a little bit, there's no economics without infrastructure development, because road infrastructure solves the other issue, which is a key issue, unemployment. Through major projects, capital investments, you solve the issue of unemployment. As far as the environment is concerned, I left it out for a while. I believe that when it comes to the allocations of funds to the Ministry of Environmental Protection, the government will change certain views and certain decisions. Why do I believe that? So by forming the Ministry of Environmental Protection, the government shows that in one responsible and serious way, it wants to deal with this issue in one responsible and serious way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55483	Thank you, fellow Milicevic. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic. Here you go, Mr. Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55484	Thank you. We have two days of opportunity and pleasure to discuss two quality reports, two important bodies, or organs, DRI and the Fiscal Council. It should also be said that this session is scheduled in the most orderly way forward, with the development points of the agenda, so to say, something that is an important step in the right direction and a gesture to be seen. Whether he is enough for some colleagues to consider that this session should be boycotted or not, that is another question, but it should be noted and commended, it has nothing to do with your reports, but the way the session is scheduled and led. It's not an accident, I'd say, that these two bodies and these two reports have been selected. I'd say they're the most representative, probably, and that's why they're put on the agenda and given the opportunity for the MPs to talk about them. These are reports that they don't have, not government reports, but two independent and independent bodies, but also that they're professionally done, properly and to the most acceptable, I'm sure for everyone or most of them here, is something that indirectly speaks well, and those who are not only those who put those reports together, but who voted for the choice of people sitting, let's say specifically on your council. I was restrained during your election, and I think I'm pleased that so I wasn't against it, but I wasn't in favour either, and now I'm going to explain because, despite the fact that in a technical sense this professional and thorough report should be commended. There are a few things that I think we should, a convenient opportunity to discuss as much as possible here, and there is no better place for some dubiosis or some dilemmas that your report leaves behind. So, praise for the report itself, commendation for the effort, as well as for yesterday's DRI, commendation for, for the artistic impression, which my colleague says, and praise for this report yesterday, I didn't want to waste any time. Now, of course, we can discuss why we haven't had a chance to discuss these reports before, and I only appeal when I commended them, leadership, which put this point, your report, on the agenda, and I hope and want this to be a positive example and that very soon, very soon, on the agenda, we have a report, say REM, the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media or the former RRA, and then MPs have a chance to discuss it. I don't think even opposition MPs who are boycotting these sessions would resist coming and saying what you think about the work of that council, or that electronic media agency. I'm sure the commentary on both sides of this room would be much more unfavourable critical, but now we have you and we have to devote ourselves to you. It is good that you have managed to preserve independence in your work and in your advice and recommendations. I'd say that's the most important thing that bodies of that kind, like your Fiscal Council and other agencies and other regulatory bodies, should have. It is often not the case, and then it is the thought of their existence. You, if nothing else, have spent your existence, and even your budget, which I see is thriftful or rather rational and domestical, that you have justified it. What, however, let's go to what's main, and these are the problems, what bothers me in this report and in the spirit of your recommendations, other your recommendations, there's a lot of positive, a lot of advice on how to behave more rationally, the individual ministries, and it's all right, but in philosophy itself, in economic philosophy, in approach, ideology if we want to, let's say the pathways to this ideological and economic-philosophy, your reports are one concept that is unacceptable to me and I'm very reserved. To be very specific, it is an IMF concept, following the IMF recommendations, a little treatment of the IMF as a "holy cow" which is a deity, which only publishes its own advice, and you are then a transmission between the IMF recommendations and the ruling majority that should adopt it. In other words, I see a large dose in your report and I commend independence or at least criticism to some measures, government moves, which is fine, which is why you exist, whether or not there is enough criticism to the IMF's recommendations and advices and other global financial institutions. I'm not saying it's, that you're working on purpose, but I just think you're on the same page. What's more specific, here's not much to be interested in or much to mean to the citizens of Serbia, but now what it means to them and what it means to me in this report, when you say reform, when you say solving the problem of failed state-owned enterprises and whether reform or structuring, in practice, in translation, and this is mainly seen in this report by shutting down, closing down or finding a strategic partnership, privatisation that can, otherwise, be liquidated. Here you list state-owned enterprises, commending RTB Bor's privatisation last year and the PKK. You say that this is a significant step towards resolving the problem of failed state-owned enterprises. I don't think so, and I think it might have been better and smarter, especially when it comes to the PKK, but that's another topic now, but I don't mind discussing it, but then get a list of the same, these state-owned enterprises that are calling for reform. I agree with the reform, but somehow when you read these lines of yours, then about, underneath that reform, you read mostly the shut-down, the liquidation, which is "Icarbus", "Lasta", "Simpo", "Jumko", "Tiger", "Turrel", and so is "Resavica", "Petrochemicals", MSK. I don't know about everything, but for some of these companies, I'm absolutely sure because I've been doing some research and asking questions, for example for "Lasta", or "Simpo", that they have potential and that they're deliberately choked. There's a reasonable suspicion of people who work and who know the situation. There you are deliberately ruined to be sold and liquidated. I want to say that there is one problematic economic philosophy, ideology and especially practice, which, under a firm of serious, legitimate themes, what about state-owned enterprises, how to inform them, how to make them more efficient, etc., which means a legitimate topic and an urgent topic, and should also be dealt with by the Ministry of Finance, and the economy, and the Assembly and your Council by doing so, but that this is actually something else under this legitimate theme -- let's get rid of these companies that, you say yourself, are doing 15 thousand workers, or employees, in order to eliminate them or sell them to a foreign customer as soon as possible. In the case of some of these companies, I'm specifically talking about Lasta right now because I know the situation best, even that customer or whoever's going around, this company, this company, which has already entered the domestic market somewhere, the car carrier and is going around and is about to buy that Lasta. So that's something that you, formally speaking, have nothing to do with. But in your analysis, you provide the basis for these economic desperados, regional or global, which is then what is successful and what can be successful and profitable, they take over, and everything else they don't care about is being pushed into bankruptcy and liquidation. This is a fundamental problem when we now remove these well-written lines, a fundamental problem that I have with this advice and advice from your advice, which in many respects is also positive and commendable and I think that you would have to take some account of it, although you don't have to be responsible for it formally. But you are neither formally responsible nor responsible for the labour force survey, so you re-entered one of your analyses, and it is very high-quality in the critical analysis of official employee growth data and showed, I think for a reason that these data are invalid and that it is not normal and it is not usual, it is difficult to understand that it can grow from 2012 employment growth in Serbia by 20% and that by the end of 2017 the growth of the social product is only 6%. And, by some other indicators, I'd say convincingly, and I've read that study of yours, I've shown that they are, for example. that information, that should be taken with a high dose of the reserve, about the high rise in employment in this period, which the representatives of the authorities did not like, but I think you were here convincing. Well, like you did here, for example. I think there's no reason for you to go a little further into this more urgent problem, which is that under the company of restructuring, reform, problem solving, as you say, public enterprises, or state enterprises, the remaining state enterprises, are actually going through one ideology, one policy, one practice -- take, grab, sell to a foreign investor, exactly what the ruling majority here, and also some of us on this side, have criticised for years earlier, more or less for a reason, when some previous authorities did so. I know that you believe that you do not and do not do it because you are meeting this current authority or the previous one, but because it is in accordance with some of your economic philosophy and beliefs. But I think that maybe we should review that practice a little, so, one of the consolidations of these IMF recommendations, especially when they are applied, especially the way they are applied in practice, because, of course, none of us can have anything against public enterprises being successful, not being losers, but making products, being in plus. But I'm inviting not as many as you, as many representatives of the ruling majority who have both the knife and the cake and all the resources and the authorities for several years, so I'm calling on them, asking them, as you will, to set up capable management, to carry out the necessary cuts, to make effective these businesses, and not to simply seem, and I say, in the case of some, at least some, I can't generalize. What you instructed for the mines, I know that, that case. I'm not sure there's that kind of drug, maybe there is, should be checked. But for some companies, I know there's a cure, but it's either not given or denied, or different moves by the state and government are actually pushed into as much dubiosis as possible, in order to sort of bring down the price and to become a lighter prey to a very interested and very existing foreign investor, i.e. which will appear as an investor and savior in the coming period. I say, I know about Lasta. I'm sure there are other examples. So, a little review of that ideology, that sanctity of IMF recommendations, because essentially, what you're proposing, it's basically translated and certain and one, I'd say, more eloquent and better way, what occasionally from the IMF mission comes to us, that kind of recommendation, there's a lot of what's useful, but also, and things that we need to take with grain salt, or with a dose of skeptic, because sometimes the one that recommends, in fact, there's some of his own interests pushing both his businesses and his companies or his own banks or his own states and governments. One more thing, let me finish with that. I'll leave some time for both later and final. So, local self-government, it's very good that you're committed to it. You have identified problems, especially these four major local self-governments: Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nis and Kragujevac, you said they were not since yesterday, but you have said something that I very much support and I want to underline here, that you do not understand why from the state budget, the difficult, burdensome, which is difficult to stabilise, but is positive in your opinion, why they finance themselves successfully and in their own understanding and their advertising, and even from some data, the successful and most successful local self-government, such as Belgrade and Novi Sad, which praises the great results of the black past with the surplus, and in that I say, the fragile and difficult, stable budget of the Republic is not likely to be helped by this kind of project. Erem, there was a time when Belgrade did not win, it was during previous authorities, which are said to be very bad here, when there was no money and transfers from the republican budget, which even gave up those transfers, and as at that time it was a very bad situation, is now like the great situation in the city of Belgrade and its finances, and he, including Novi Sad, is also getting significant funds from the budget reserve. I don't think there are any grounds for that, no matter how much I, as I would say, are life-related to both of those two cities, and for Belgrade and Novi Sad, I think that if there is a city in Serbia that doesn't need that kind of help, then it's Belgrade and Novi Sad and you're right, although, of course, you've maintained, moderately and measured that. I hope you'll continue.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55485	Thank you, Mr. Vukadinovic. The People's MP Veroljub Arsic has the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55486	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think there are some things here that are kind of casual and easy to think about. First of all, when it comes to restructure companies. Let's get this straight, how did these enterprises come into restructuring? They were created because most of the privatisation contracts were broken down, by being more valuable during the authorities of Vojislav Kostunica, DS and other parties of the former regime, sold into indemnity, and then the property, which was multiple, was more valuable than the price at which these companies bought, placed under certain burdens with business banks, and the loans that were withdrawn ended with other legal entities. That's the condition that's been found. Later, they broke up privatisation contracts and returned ruined businesses to the state. Well, accept the responsibility of those with whom you were on the list. It's not true that something is being prepared for someone, makeup, grooming. Most of these companies in restructuring, the vast majority, operate positively, or do not make any more losses, and also those not guilty, but the privatization owner who brought them back, pay off, and hence the value of these companies when they are privatised, will not be 20% of the book value, so you had a situation to pay less the company than there is money on the current account or goods in stores, but will be at market values. It's about putting an end to that part of the story right now. What's constantly going on in this discussion is that the privatisations that have been made... Unlike earlier privatisations, these were done publicly, transparently and everyone could participate. The only problem is that those who complain about these privatisations had the intention of getting their hands on valuable assets again and selling that property, as it had been before. Find me a single example of privatisation by 2012 that the subject of privatisation survived, that today lives. Find me. (President: Thank you. I'm done, buddy. The only one to survive is "Bambi" Pogorjevac, but he is not privatised either by Vlahovic's model, neither by Kostunica nor by any other, but by the model, or by the law that she then wrote and proposed, and this Assembly adopted by the current governor, Jorgovanka Tabakovic. Only "Bambi" survived.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55487	Thank you, colleague Arsic. The word has Gjorge Vukadinovic, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55488	Mr. Arsic, you spoke for three minutes, but it's not so much now... (President: I'll extend it to you too, don't worry, please. Thank you, Chairman. Believe it or not, I agree with you to a large extent, which is not very popular, especially with you to agree. Of course, I agree with the extent to which you say and point to the problems that existed, and I suppose Mr. President will agree, which did not occur today, nor yesterday, as well as the privatisation model, as well as the privatisation practice. You know, there can be the best possible law and model, and it can be misapplyed. In this particular case, when it comes to Serbian reform, so-called Transition and privatisation, I think two bad things have come out. It was a bad model and it went bad. It doesn't matter whether it was applied by the government of Zoran Djindjic, Vojislav Kostunica, Boris Tadic or now yours, progressive, one, the other or the third government. It really doesn't matter. I don't know if Bambi is the only example. There are, I'm sure, more successful privatisations in that period. I can ask around, so let me tell you tomorrow or the next day, but what I do know is that serious analysis and serious people say that, in contrast, from "the Ironworks"... I did not say the word, and I publicly commended it and, and it is not always popular when someone who is the opposition works, said that the privatisation of "Steels" seems to have been done in a good way and commended. It is for Bor, but for RTB I am not so sure, as it seems, that there are some things sold there and that they are surrounded by which they may have been able to enable the state of Serbia to profitably place this important company and that important resource does not put into other people's hands. It doesn't matter if the hands are Chinese, German, American or Russian. So, my position, as I said economic or philosophy, that everything that can remain in the hands of the state, and to be successful, should remain in the hands of the state. No small business, no hair salons, no retail anyway, and it shouldn't be in state hands. Either way, it's not worth it, we can give a political point to indicate who made the worse privatisation. I think, in contrast, here I end up, an example of "The Irons", neither the PKK nor Bor were to be sold, privatized. You criticized it as representatives of the opposition, and now your government is doing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55489	Thank you, colleague Vukadinovic. The word is Veroljub Arsic, right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55490	I criticized the way companies are privatized, because when you have 20% of the book value of the starting price, and the book value is already five times smaller than the market, then you come across that problem. When someone pays something as much as it costs, he takes care of it, doesn't sell it, because it doesn't pay him, then invests in it to pay back his money and earn more. Those are some principles. I hope we agree on that. As for RTB Bor, was he supposed to stay state or not? Time will tell. I can only tell you that ever since the Chinese investor came, all the employees in RTB Bor got a salary increase, and not a little bit, the order is the size of 15 to 25 thousand dinars per employee. No one's been fired, and they've got more people on board to hire. I think it's a successful privatisation. Can the state be a good employer here? I don't think so. Yes, Bor is important to us because of this number of employees, but we cannot compare Bor to the Public Enterprise of the Elektroprivreda of Serbia, which is a national good and which should remain owned by the Republic of Serbia. Reformed, but it should stay. As for the transfer to some cities, since you've touched that too, let me tell you, during the former regime, transfers were non-intentional. So it was spent as who arrived and thought he needed it, and the effects were nothing because the money in most cases ended up in private pockets. When it comes to dedicated transfers, it's a different story, you can only spend it on that and that and nothing more. It's a big difference between what happened by 2012 and how it is now. If it wasn't for that difference, we wouldn't have a 600-700m-euro bridge and we still don't know how much it's going to cost when he's 100% doing his job.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55491	Thank you, colleague Arsic. Dr. Mihailo Jokic called. On what grounds did you answer? (Mihailo Jokic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55492	When we talk here, we have to answer for it materially... (President: Which member did I hurt, Dr. Jokic? ) Article 107. The previous speaker said – I am not sure, and continued to discuss. If he's not sure, he shouldn't have discussed it, that we understand each other. Leave it for another time, when you're sure, when you're sure, then discuss it. I think it's very incorrect for us, for the other MPs. Don't do it, it doesn't make sense, you're a serious man. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55493	Thank you, Dr. Yokic. I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55494	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. With this new change in the functioning of the National Assembly until this famous report by the European Commission, therefore, on the state of talks between the EU and Serbia on Serbia's EU membership, we are now finally having, after years, a development debate, a normal time for discussion and a situation that we can at all have representatives of the Fiscal Council here and discuss with them and exchange opinions at the National Assembly session. The Republic of Serbia has been a country of limited sovereignty for 19 years. At times, countries of limited sovereignty were told, therefore, that they were wondering about everything only they couldn't ask about their communist principles under which they rest. Today, Serbia can't do anything, whether it's in its interest or not, if it doesn't like it or if it is not apologising from the EU. So are these discussions we have today. Of course, what is present in Serbia, which we thought was in a democratic state a long time ago, i.e. in countries at all, and particularly democratically, it is volunteerism that, on the basis of the will of some persons, decisions are made without democratic consensus, debate, voting, etc. We have this situation today and in the National Assembly, for the first time in a year and a half, that we have stopped listening more to the amendments of the ruling majority members, who, after the ruling majority, do not vote, the development time for discussion, even the president of Serbia, is at a session of some very important body, which has absolutely nothing to do with the institutions of the Serbian state, the National Convention for the EU and representatives of NGOs talking about improving procedures in the National Assembly. I think it is clear to the members of the Fiscal Council that there has been no pressure from abroad, the EU dictatorship, their report would never see the light of day. They would not appear in the National Assembly or appear and sit there as an escort. They would not have the opportunity to discuss it, as the report would be among 49 other points of the agenda. So this is now a unique opportunity, perhaps even about the term of office in the last two weeks, of what we have at the meetings of the National Assembly. More says Serbia's president -- it takes twice as long for the budget to discuss next year's budget to take twice as long. We were honored by the President of the Republic at the National Convention. We as a country of limited sovereignty, of course, cannot make our own decisions. It's clear to everyone, not in the economy, not on any foreign policy issues, not on military, social issues, it doesn't matter. The only thing that matters is that we get the EU's consent. Well, as far as the gray economy of the IMF is concerned. For 19 years, the IMF has been all-out in Serbia, wondering about everything and what our electricity price is and what state-owned enterprise we need to sell, how much we need to cut salaries or pensions and anything else. The political programmes of parties competing in the citizens' confidence elections to implement their policy afterwards are of the utmost importance, because unless the political programme of the party in power disagrees with the IMF's objectives, that is worse for the programme. Of course it didn't start with this government configuration. It's been 19 years, but the question is, how long do we have to wait for this state to change? The International Monetary Fund just wants to know how to pay its debts. What do they care about about the consequences of how it will affect the population, whether there will be a reduction in pensions, salaries, electricity prices or anything else? That's absolutely none of their business. In any sphere, whether it's in the education, whether it's in the health care, absolutely has nothing to do with it, but just that the debts are paid in time and that there are new borrowings, which is possible under more unfavourable conditions, and that's that. That's all. As for today's situation in Serbia, we, if I am not mistaken for 16 years, do not have a final account in the National Assembly, without talking about what the budget has brought together with 70 points of the agenda without any debate, and the material has arrived to the MPs that it was not physically possible for everyone to read it, because it is not a budget read by bus or by the way. I guess that should be more thoroughly analyzed to get into the National Assembly. This time there hasn't been, like, 16 years, and no final account. When we asked the finance minister - where is the final account and why if we are already doing so well, if we have blossomed, if all the praises from abroad are for Serbia's economy, if Serbia is the leader in the region, and we do not have a final account, and he says, you have on the site. Imagine, the finance minister doesn't understand the principle of power-sharing, he doesn't understand the function of the National Assembly, he doesn't understand the state administration and the finance ministry at all, and he's able to say -- you have on the site, so we could vote on the budget website. Why did the budget even come to the National Assembly? It is probably this principle of digitisation that is so popular in Serbia. So, the IMF is the main authority for Serbia's economy. What is also a big problem is discrimination against domestic businessmen in Serbia. So, if a foreign investor in Serbia gets land, gets all the permits under accelerated procedures, gets subsidies that are sometimes more than 10,000 euros per job, and the domestic economy has no right to do all that, then we are directly working against ourselves. If we need to have a stable and strong economy and if we're interested in the future, then we need to encourage a domestic economy, not boasting that one or the one from abroad, opened up the factory here, got everything on the plate, and then pulled that money out and took it with him. We did not earn much from it, and as if the value in itself is the presence of foreign investors in Serbia. That's what the eyes are like when they listen to discussions from the finance ministry's representatives or very often the president of Serbia. I'd like to ask a question -- I don't understand the meaning of the existence of the Fiscal Council. If the Fiscal Council is to make recommendations, to appeal to fiscal policy operations, to warn or to point out at all and to draw attention to finance and behaviour, and at all budget planning in Serbia, rarely when, and I can't remember, it once happened, because usually, it didn't start with this call of the Assembly, or this composition of the Government, it's been 19 years in Serbia, there are populist measures in Serbia, and there is no predictability and transparency in terms of public finances, because very often the finance minister finds out where the money from the budget will be spent, the taxpayers' money at the press conferences of the President of the Republic, when the president of the Republic in his campaign – the future of Serbia where he visited, many districts around Serbia say – there will be a school here, there will be a road, here we will renovate the House of Health etc., and the Minister of Finance sits and records what the President. What kind of predictability is that? Where's the transparency? Then what's the Fiscal Council for? If the Fiscal Council publishes a statement or press conference with some conclusions that are not in line with the current efforts of the government or the ruling party's policy in Serbia, there is no comment on it, but immediately the Fiscal Council is dealing with politics or something else. We can listen nicely and see what our finances are like, but that doesn't make anyone bound. All this can be heard, seven days will pass, representatives of the Fiscal Council will arrive next year in the Assembly, nothing. So, in order for us to do something, we need to develop a domestic private sector, at least the same conditions as foreign investors. There is no country that has recovered from the post-Communist period. transitions with the help of the IMF. She could only have made her poorer. Let's just look at examples of countries in the region, especially newer EU members. All have grown public debt since they joined the EU since they started the IMF arrangements, and all that they had sold out. They became simple under the protection of strangers and that's it. It is Serbia's fate if it continues like this. Very often we can hear that unemployment is reduced in Serbia, even sometimes we can hear that unemployment is at a historical minimum, and this is not maintained on the growth of domestic economy or in GDP. Where do we see it? The fact that some new methodology is now, in use, we're now making who the problem doesn't exist. Whether the glass is half empty or half full depends on which side you look and what suits you more. That's how it is now in this methodology. If we count differently, it'll turn out to be more employees, that doesn't make any sense, then we're lying to ourselves. What I remembered last week, when we listened to the European Commission's report on Serbia's progress, in negotiations with the EU, among other things, as an argument, to justify Serbia's Euro Integration process and to conduct negotiations in general, etc., Minister of European Integration Jadranka Joksimovic said, at one point, as we received so much and so much grants money from pre-accession funds. I couldn't be surprised by such a statement, that the Serbian government minister might think there's some free money to get, that there's a free lunch, that I can't really figure it out, and if we don't get all that money back, with interest, we'll pay in another way, by further limiting our sovereignty, by privatising our businesses and everything else. I can't really understand that, if that's what this government is thinking, then it's really devastating. What tells us, too, that we are a country that cannot make decisions on its own, is that at the time the EU first imposed sanctions on the Russian Federation, because of the crisis in eastern Ukraine, the minister of trade, in the Serbian government and now current, at a press conference, it said that it was one big export opportunity for Serbia, since all agricultural products, which had previously been exported from Poland, Spain and other European countries, could now replace the Serbian economy and that we now need to look for our chance in the whole crisis. The EU representative in Serbia, Michael Davenport, handed over to Minister Rasim Ljajic, the so-called "ed memoir", a diplomatic note, which says it would not be recommended that Serbia expands its exports to Russia, but should follow the EU foreign and security policy. That should be enough for us. So don't act in your own interest, but do what we tell you to do and that's all. It can be a summary of our relationship, in the last 20 years and in the economy and in all other spheres, and that's it. So I repeat again, we can pretend like everything's okay, but predictability and transparency, no. What kind of economic environment is that, as you said, Mr. Petrovic, when these factors are gone, here in Serbia? Because we first have an election campaign, announcements that there will be no salaries and pensions cut and no one can touch the acquired pensioners' rights, and then we see that in six months the situation is completely different and the wages can be reduced and pensions can be reduced etc. Where's the predictability here? How can someone who wants to invest in Serbia watch that? Just the fact that we ignore everything else. Because here, you stated in the report, the most important task in 2018 was the introduction of a pension system on permanent grounds. What is here on a permanent basis, 8.1 – what is here on a permanent basis, what can in Serbia in the current situation in this colonial situation where Serbia can be on permanent grounds towards the EU? Nothing. And if you could say something like that that doesn't like, for example. members of the ruling majority and their current policy, they might tell you how you have income even though you're retired. Is that what it is if memory serves me? The President of the Fiscal Council has been receiving even though he is retired. So it doesn't matter what you said, but you don't do it right, and that's why we're going to attack you, it absolutely has nothing to do with the facts. Maybe you're right, maybe you're wrong, but that's not what we're discussing. I think the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the President of the Republic should finally demonstrate sovereignty and start making decisions that are in line with our economic and national interests, not because it would cause praise in Washington or Brussels or anywhere else. If we think the IMF is thinking about us and our future, then we're wrong. Only we can do it ourselves, and no one will help us or care. They're interested in us serving our debts on time and making ourselves more in debt and that it can be sold out here as much as it appreciates everything that's worth in Serbia and that's it. The government that is responsible for fulfilling its duties, which took an oath in the National Assembly that has received citizens' trust, should behave rather than be a testing polygon here of the EU and an institution so-called. The Washington Consensus. So it really needs to be our basic preoccupation, and we need to discuss it so that we can count on our future. And the basic problem that all problems arise from is the process of Serbia's Euro integration that needs to be reviewed as soon as possible and should be interrupted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55495	Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55496	That's right, our interests should be thought of by us. And the interests of Serbian citizens, of course, also thinks of the president of the state, Aleksandar Vukic and the Serbian government, the parliamentary majority thinks. As for the relationship to the Fiscal Council and the respect given to it, the Fiscal Council comes to the National Assembly each year to speak to the committee responsible about its annual work and to submit its report. Does he come every year? He's coming. If you haven't seen it, ask whoever doesn't believe it, make sure he's on his own. Does that mean he's respected by the National Assembly? I'd say yes, yes. At a public meeting, which is attended not only by members of the board, but by whoever wants to speak to the MPs, but first he must be interested in the truth, not by speaking here to be interested, and then not by going to the board's session to see for himself what the report is, but by being interested in him honestly. He can discuss it, he can participate. He thinks it's a sign of respect. Besides, he's not going to try to impute now that committees aren't important or they're not that important. Someone who, when we talk about the European Commission, on her report, on the report where Fabrika was speaking here, the European Commission report, so I said in the Assembly building that I agree with the opinion of the European Commission when it comes to committees and that it agrees that, since the committees are very important, the opposition gets more space in them. So, what do I think about that, I said there, but if you agree with the European Commission, and you agree that committees are important, then why don't they matter when the Fiscal Council comes? I think it is a sign of respect after all. As for subsidies, we talked a lot about it and those who ask what the Fiscal Council is for. For example, it serves to agree with them in this regard, and they feel that it is a problem about subsidies, and yet I like to ask – if it is problematic, why not explain to people who have been employed in these factories and these businesses who have come through subsidy programmes that it is not good? Why don't you explain to all the people we measure for hundreds of thousands, you disagree, you say, tens of thousands are at stake? The Fiscal Council may agree with you, not with me, but why don't you explain to them that it's not good that they got the job, so when you finish that job, walk all over Serbia and explain to everyone that it's not good that they got the job, then move on, and move on in the countries of environments that also give subsidies, so go through the countries of Central Europe and sub-Communist many who have always been through these subsidy programmes to solve their employment problems. So you tell everyone that you're right, and none of them who applied these models are right and that they didn't find any luck by hiring people. I think it's going to be a serious task, that changing methodology is actually why we have more employment. That can only be said by someone who is not aware of the order of size at all. How much can the data change because of the change in methodology, and how much because we actually have employees? Since he doesn't know, I'll tell him. At the level of the year when the methodology was changed, the number difference in numbers turned out to be 16,000 employees. What we count hundreds of thousands more employees, that 16 thousand made a difference, so it won't be. If we're going to be serious, if we can't be serious, we can be different. At the very end, salaries and pensions are higher, and you have to explain to people the same thing that's not good for them, if you really don't think that's good for them. But that wages and pensions are higher, the Fiscal Council and the European Commission agree and agree with the IMF. When you say there isn't a country that the IMF helped. I agree, there's no country that didn't think of itself without her being well. Serbia thinks of itself once more, so it has jobs and higher salaries and higher pensions. The International Monetary Fund said one thing – Serbia is, in its work, so successful that it is safe in the region, and perhaps even at the level of the country's continent that has co-operated with the IMF, and that it is as successful as Serbia is today, it does not exist.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55497	Right on line, MP Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55498	Dear Mr. Orlic, I can go to the committees of which I'm a member. I can't go to all the committees in the National Assembly. I may be interested or not be interested in this subject, but I can't be in the Assembly all the time. I'm going to the committees where I'm a member. Where I'm not a member sometimes, sometimes I don't get dependent on my obligations. I didn't say anything to you. I reminded myself first of what the advances said in their election campaign. Among other things, the election list you were on, which is why you're an MP. You said in the campaign that not to cut wages and pensions, but to make that savings, various pointless agencies and funding NGOs will be abolished. I agree with that, it should be done, but it's some political attitude that simply the ruling majority forgot, not at all consideration, but now we're looking for someone else's reasons. Okay, the Fiscal Council in the Assembly every year, I agree and I should, but if it wasn't for the pressure from abroad, we would now have a joint debate with many different points of the agenda and we wouldn't be able to talk about it. Do not pretend that this was not a situation in the congregation until a month ago. We who are a state-of-the-art people with a very rich legal tradition and a tradition of parliamentaryism have come into a situation to listen to dictatorships from abroad. So what we ourselves didn't know how the National Assembly worked, we learned in a report from some of the European bureaucracy there. Let us not fool ourselves, and the existence of the Committee and their work and the work of the pleum of the National Assembly, that in democratic tradition and practice. To do that just to be commended and because it is in line with some negotiating frameworks, etc., it is totally pointless.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55499	Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55500	Let's go backwards, first what was last. What we'd have or wouldn't have a month ago. Here, if I were to tell a man who is not a People's MP, so these things may not follow exactly, I would understand that he does not understand or know. But to explain to the People's MP that in this House, before the European Commission's report, there was, for example, just one example, a debate on the Capital Act, right? Did we have one item on the agenda, one debate, one law? There are cases like that. It's not even a question of us competing here right now who's going to remember what first. You haven't had those things for months that you've been pointing to as a problem for months now, and when was that report? You have to decide, do you agree with that report or disagree? Do you think the European Commission is important or not? No, when they come here, you tell Mr. Fabrizio - you're right, we need to get a seat on the board of directors. Then when he leaves you tell us – no, they are wrong, we disagree with the European Commission. So that's what you have to decide. Do you remember what happened a month ago or don't you remember? Do you respect them or do you disrespect them? So these are dilemmas that aren't as much mine as yours. As for those things that have been lifted. Once again, I told you about the report, ask people if they come every year? Now you agree to come and say it's important, that we understand each other. Here, ask them what's been lifted in this country, and what's burdened the economy or the economic operators. For some things, you may agree with them that it is important that it is abolished, for some you will agree that it does not matter. I think you've had an official opinion of the parafiscal impediments. Many have been suspended, but you are not satisfied with the effects. But if it wasn't for that, that would be hard. At the very end, they pay you and those pensions. How much is the average salary today, and how much was 2012 or 2014? How much is the average pension today, and how much was 2014? Say it. Here, let's compare, so we'll be very clear from the answer what's bigger, what's smaller and when it is. I'm telling you, now I'm telling you, you're only going to be able to figure out that she's bigger today than she was at a time when others, unfortunately, took care of her. And the pension is on average higher today than it was before the measures you criticise often. A minimum wage not to mention, the coverage of a minimum consumer basket with a minimum wage then and today, not to mention. So these are the facts. Give the numbers, and see for yourself if my words are not enough for you, make sure through your words. What you started out of, I'll finish with it, you've been completely honest with me. This problem, these reports, and what we may be worshiping, you were completely honest when you said you weren't interested in it.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55501	Right on line, MP Alexander Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55502	I think parliamentaryism and the work of the National Assembly in Serbia is now divided into before Fabrizia and after Fabrizia. So before Fabrizia, we could talk here about everything and everything, about 60 points of the agenda. That's all the facts, that's not my attitude. So that's all the facts. When the president of the Republic at the NGO session said that work would change in the National Assembly, and if someone pointed to problems in the functioning of the National Assembly, then they were Serbian radicals, for all. You know, it wasn't the Serbian radicals that brought Fabrizio to the Assembly to give us a lecture, it was the ruling majority. That's just scandalous. That MPs in the Serbian Parliament must wear headphones in the National Assembly, because, for God's sake, it's not just the Serbian official language, we can also talk in English here. I said everything I said, I said well-intentioned. That's my opinion, I've been honest with everything. So, I explained the party's views, but let's not, I repeat, do anything for someone else, as Serbia has been doing for 19 years, i.e. Because of the pressure from abroad. Don't pretend we don't know that, because that's not the case.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55503	Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55504	I respect everyone's right to express political views, thank God we're all here. So is Serbia doing something because it is exposed to terrible pressure from abroad or because it is useful for it, and to talk about these things that you said you were not interested in? I think we should, as MPs, be very interested. Do we provide foreign investments because we are forced to do so or because it is useful for us? It's useful, of course. If it wasn't useful, why would countries literally take off for investment to come to them and why would everyone today with certain envy, so to speak, look at Serbia throughout the region, just because Serbia is so successful that these foreign investments attract more than everyone else. Why is it not good for a man to get a job if he didn't have a job? Why is it not good for that man who hired his salary to get bigger? Are these the results of some of the terrible pressures that break us or our desire to provide these things? The answer is clear. Does someone make us want a bigger pension? I don't think so, and I don't have to explain it to anyone. Those questions, ladies and gentlemen, have to be of interest to everyone. Just be correct and say – this is good, it's okay, cap down, my political position and my party, it doesn't matter, but what's good, it's good. Some things that can be the subject of discussion, to discuss, we've never run away from it, but don't discuss things that are fundamentally clear. At the very end, the House of the National Assembly is a place which is a kind of sanctuary, you said, democracy, it should be, and it is a place of good hosts, good hosts who respect guests who invite or host here. Is it a problem that someone speaks their language? I would say it wasn't, but let it be a measure of the seriousness of everything you said that, to paraphrasise you, then it turns out to be a distinguished guest of China a few months ago, listening to them without headphones. Whether or not you are, let that be an indication of the seriousness of everything else you've said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55505	I am now setting a three-minute break, in accordance with Article 112.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55506	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. The word is made by MP Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55507	Thank you, dear Vice President Arsic. Dear President of the Fiscal Council, members of the Fiscal Council, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it was very interesting to listen to this controversy regarding the monitoring and measurement of employment, therefore, the controversy about the labour force survey and the methodology of measuring employment and unemployment in the Republic of Serbia. What I can say about that is that these things are very clear. All this data that we have here in the National Assembly, and which can be made available to the public through the Office for Statistics of the Republic of Serbia, are data and that methodology approved by Eurostat and in accordance with Eurostat standards, therefore, with the highest possible standards of the European Union and the organisation working under the auspices of the European Union and which is responsible for assessing and defining the methodology for both the countries that are members of the European Union and those which are candidates and other countries should measure the level, i.e. the percentage of employment and unemployment. I will try to work with my colleagues from the Fiscal Council a little bit, because I think things are clean here, that the data are clean, although the Fiscal Council in the 2018 Report speaks and raises doubts about this fact, about increasing employment, that is, drastically reducing unemployment, comparing this with the fact that the relative growth of the gross domestic product must also follow employment and that the growth of the gross domestic product is disproportionate to the data represented by the Office for Statistics of the Republic of Serbia and that it is in fact not accurate. I don't think there should be any spectacular controversy about this, because in 2016 we introduced a job recording under Eurostat's patronage, through the functioning and operation of the Central Register for Social Insurance. In order to make it more clear to the public and to make it more clear to colleagues, it is important to note that there are two variations in employment measurement, i.e. polling, it is a formal and registered survey. It is very easy to get these data on what is actually the level of employment and how much employment is actually raised in relation to what we have as data of a registered and formal labour survey. He spoke of this several times, in my personal opinion, and Prof. Dr. Miladin Kovacevic, who is also the Director of the Bureau of Statistics of the Republic of Serbia, as surely the greatest and supreme authority in the field of statistics in our country and beyond, but what is also very important, Eurostat and its methodology according to which our country works and according to which the Bureau of Statistics in our country is working. What we can do and understand whether this methodology is good and whether it suits us, but it is, we accepted it in 2008 and in accordance with that methodology we measure the level of employment, or according to these two surveys formal and registered, and I don't think there should be any additional controversy about it. Next, I want to say something about some of the things I agree with in this report. It refers to redundancies of employees' earnings and refers to a reduction in the burden on earnings. I think these two proposals, offered by the Fiscal Council, are good. One proposal and one variant is that it contributes to social insurance for the employer from 17.6% to 16% and another variant is that the discharge is in general linearly reduced from 63% to 60% in order to stimulate domestic economy and production from around 200m euros in total. I consider it a very, very good proposal that the government and parliament should consider and think about that. Given the fact that, in fact, I mean domestic entrepreneurship, domestic economy, domestic enterprises can in any case develop in the coming period, try to reach foreign investors at the level of technological development, at the level of human resources, new technologies, new knowledge, management. It is through this option that you spread your profits and through this redundancy of earnings that provides room for new investment in labour into human resources, into new technologies, into equipment, which would allow them to be competitive not only in our country, but also in the region, and since we are preparing to join the EU and that our country's strategic goal is to be fully competitive and competitive with our companies in relation to EU businesses. I remembered what Professor Petrovic said, and it concerns foreign direct investment and that only slightly higher levels of investment, i.e. the level of foreign direct investment in Serbia, rather than other Western Balkan countries. I think Professor Petrovic was quite reserved there. I have to repeat that fact, as someone who is a member of the majority in parliament and who supports the Government of the Republic of Serbia, what it really is, that this level of foreign direct investment in 2018 was 3.3 billion euros and that it was definitely more investment in Serbia than in all the countries of Western, so on. The Western Balkans. That's a fact. That's good. This means that we have a good model and a good environment for attracting foreign direct investment, but I also agree that we need to find a way to speed up and make the development of domestic businesses, especially start-up businesses much more dynamic, be much better, much bigger and much more diverse, that their portfolio is bigger and that they employ more people and that their profit rates are higher. We here need to open up space and opportunities for new types of funding, new opportunities for investment in new technologies and all that we need in the employment of labour force, high-quality labour force and highly educated power, because this is what solves our end-of-the-end and demographic problem, and this is the great migration of these most educated and most qualified people who, in addition to the options to be employed in foreign businesses and multinational companies, have an opportunity in the coming period and are employed in domestic companies. However, what the report shows and what the state needs and has to do much more, and we all have to help it together, and what I personally don't like as someone who promotes private entrepreneurship, a private initiative, this is the relationship between profit in the state sector, i.e. in the public sector and in the private sector. It's not logical, and in the end, it's not good, although there are many people, hundreds of thousands of people are employed in the public and state sectors, it's not good, it's not good, it's not a standard of developed countries to make money in the private sector, it's profit in the public sector. We have to overcome this problem by trying in all ways to encourage domestic micro- and medium-sized enterprises to develop, to perfect their portfolio, to improve and thus reach the opportunity to employ as many people as possible, to be more competitive. Of course, what our country's goal is, and all of us here sitting in the hall hope, as much as possible, to export, to encourage exports, because in any case, it is what is the engine of the development of one economy, one state, and I think that we have made such an environment and that we have a chance to make that kind of development and make that step to make the best possible environment for the development of domestic enterprises. Professor Petrovic spoke of investments in ecology, environmental protection and said that there were not enough public investments to agree with and certain that there was room for more investment and more public investment, that this percentage from 4% increased to 4.5% or 5%, but Professor Petrovic, the world's global reality, the geopolitical reality is such that we must not neglect investment and investment in our security infrastructure, and in the police, and in our military, and in our arms, and in investing in cyber security and protection of our cyber space, which is, in any case, one of the key aspects of the 21st century, i.e. the pillars of economic protection, the protection of one economic order of development and prosperity of one country. Imagine, dear professor, that we tell one Israel, so you invest a lot in weapons, you invest a lot of money in defense. Of course, it's not the same situation, it can't exactly be made a clear partnership between us and Israel, although I would like Serbia in economic, military, political and in any other sense at least to reach one level that Israel has achieved in the past few decades of its economy, its new technologies, its infrastructure in education and science, but it could not have done so without great investment in arms, in equipment, in its military and in its security of its country. It's no accident that we're seeing each other once in a while, and it's good, in the U.S., that their weapons budget is somewhere around 700 billion dollars. It is not by chance that we, in any case, feel that we should follow these trends and invest in the security of our country, not only in the military and the police, but also in these other types of new technologies, information protection, corporate security and cyber security that are very important today and are related to the development and success of our economy. Also, I would like to comment on the report on the reform of public enterprises. Your concern for the ISK, for “Azotara”, for Petrochemija, is realistic and it is good that you were realistic when you stated in the report that the Railways implemented a good reform, that they reduced the number of employees from 17 to 11 000, that their company had corporateised and defined three continents: the transport of passengers, infrastructure and railways “Kargo”, and that in the next, certainly one decade, for example, if there is enough investment, enough investment, enough investment and projects can become a respectable company that can even, along with this infrastructure importance for one country, for investment, transport of goods, transport of passengers, interconnection with countries in the region and with countries in Europe, can be even during that period if it is run in a host way, if it is managed as a good professional management now, this company can be profitable. What is important to say about the ISK and the "Azotar" is that we must be patient. I understand from this economic aspect and the position that what is not good does not make a profit, creates huge losses, that theoretically and in some way it can be considered to go into bankruptcy, that if there are market conditions or all others that are necessary to survive, if there are no to put down, but examples of "Gelezzare", RTB Bora, PKB, speak clearly of being possible with one patient policy, with one diplomatic, political, of course, and offensive regarding the creation of a quality framework and a good business environment, where it is possible to find partners at global level who will invest in these companies and who see, and who have a vision of the future, which have a strategy for these companies and I believe that this logic and this policy that has been implemented so far by President Aleksandar Vukic has given excellent results. Let's go back to 2013, 2014, I would, of course, rather look into the future at what we're going to do and talk about it, and it's a good thing that we're all here today, growing by 5, 6, 7%, how to reach that level, what we need to fix. It's a good thing we've got such a brine streaming today. But in 2013 and 2014, when you mentioned the PKK to someone, if you mention "The Iron" to someone, they were lost companies. And many, most of the theorists, economists, who we respect very much, have spoken – it should be driven into bankruptcy, it should be cut off, it's a cancerous leg, it can't, it'll only cause us losses and problems. But with such a policy, a patient policy, a diligent policy, by creating good political alliances, such as the alliance of our country that President Vukic made with President Šija, led the Chinese company to invest in RTB Bor, to invest in "Hestil" China's company in "Zelezar", retain 5,000 jobs and secure life in Smederev and in the entire region and ensure that Serbia does not fall GDP for, I think, about one to 1.2% when this "Gelezar" would not work. That means it's possible, it's just a matter of work, a matter of commitment, a question of one minimum consensus that we need to make between ourselves when it comes to our country's economic development. I have no doubt that anyone in this room has something against it and that anyone does not believe that Serbia should record 5%, 6%. Here's the question of how we're going to get to this economic growth, to help the state do it, but also to have the state and the decision-makers agree to do it. Some of my opposition colleagues were talking about investment. Well, is it possible that no investment is good? Is it possible that Belgrade is not good on the water? Here, they say, they're laughing gondolas. Let them go somewhere to see. Here, I came back from New York last week, same gondola, identical, connecting East River with Queens. Are those Americans stupid? They don't know what they're supposed to do? They don't know what project is good? I wouldn't say that. Then they support those who come, who are against investment, who are not aware of what, by interrupting construction works, by not allowing workers of private companies to do their jobs and earn bread on those sites. That's why I'm asking you a little bit more, not blah support, of course, but just a little more encouragement and joint work to exploit the potential of this country. If we've reached 4.1% last year, correct me if I'm wrong, and we've been second to Poland at the level of GDP growth across Europe, so that means we can get to 5, and 6% with a clear strategy, a clear vision and ideas. We, people, have raised entire sectors over the past few years with new investments. We were killed by the textile industry 15, 20 years ago, destroyed, destroyed, now you have dozens of Turkish investors and domestic investors who work, who hire people who sew here in our country, who export products. So we've raised that industry, we've raised energy, we've got a lot of companies that require both highly educated and highly qualified workforce, we've got Svarovski, we've got a ZF, we've got companies from the automotive industry. We've raised the entire industry to its feet, which means we can. So let's raise together and see how we're going to encourage the IT sector, that we have, in two or three years, two billion euros from that IT sector compared to the current billion, that we have two billion from tourism. That way we can get to that magic figure of some 55 billion GDP that would give our citizens greater prosperity and a much better life. But you know for yourself, reality is very different, the way of an investment, the way from thinking business plan to job is long. It is a long procedure and believe and let the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, all of us, and headed by President Vukic we fight for every job, for every man to work, so that he can earn his bread and what is most important to us, that his family stays here to work, to live and to have as many children as possible and to correct that demographic anomaly that has hit us over the past 30 years. That's why we're reducing unemployment, and that's why obsession is our new job and reducing unemployment. I end up, Vice President Arsic, with us reaching that level safely, I guarantee that in Belgrade it is possible to have unemployment between 3% and 4% within a few years, and in large cities such as Nis, Novi Sad. There's work here, there's ambience, we have to fix a lot of things in regional development and in the development of the region and in the agriculture sector, in order to have that growth, development and to keep our people in our country. Thank you, and I'm sorry for making it a little longer. Thank you, Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55508	Thank you. The word is Pavle Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55509	Thank you. Short reaction to previous exposure. With regard to the labour force survey, employment, on the positive side of the 2018 data and now this first data, for 2019, are much more reliable than before and are in line with some other macroeconomic sizes. What I do not agree with the gentleman, or it is not a matter of not getting along, but a matter of fact, is that these employment data from 2012 to 2017 were reliable, because they say that in the period from 2012 to 2017, production grew cumulatively by 6% and employment by 19%. It turns out that unemployment has grown three times more than production, and you don't have one example, for us comparable countries in Central and Eastern Europe. Another fact that this employment information is not reliable is that formal employment, therefore, is the employment that should be accurately registered and paid for, that in the last five years the contributions have been much lower than this formal employment, which also indicates that the employment data are not reliable. Of course, I don't think we can clear these up here, but I'm inviting you, we're at your disposal, the Fiscal Council, to sit in a smaller group, to show our analysis, you and then to go through all these arguments. Alternatively, we can lead this discussion in public. Write down all the arguments and we'll look back at them and see what's there and how. Of course, I'll be back to square one. Data for 2018 and now for 2019 are much more reliable. The second major bloc that is open is economic growth and there are significant investments for economic growth, and that is where we agree. Yes, public investment, I understand the argument that a significant part of public investment must go into defense, but the other side of that argument is that then we have to make peace that economic growth will be lower and it is already being seen during this year. The planned growth is 3.5%, which is less than 4%, which was last year, and this growth may not be achieved this year. One of the reasons if it happens are just less public investment. Therefore, when you MPs make a decision on this, you should know that there is both sides. If you want it here, then you have less investment in infrastructure. That makes you have smaller economic growth. Economic growth in Serbia is not satisfactory. Last year was only on average in Central and Eastern Europe, but it was with one-off effects in Serbia because it was an exceptional agricultural year. So the growth was 4.3%, and for this year, the government and you, when you adopted the budget, admitted that it was one-off. Why? Because this year, both you and the government, and we supported it, predicted that Serbia would grow 3.5%. What if that growth last year was standard and corresponded to Serbia's strength? How come it's down from 4.3 to 3.5? It is, according to our assessment, something which is currently the potential of growth in this economic environment of Serbia. It is true that foreign and direct investment at a level that is acceptable to Serbia and greater than in the region. Once again, the main problem is the domestic economy and domestic private investment. If you're saying we should work to stimulate economic growth, it means fostering domestic private investment. Our opinion, our analysis and the facts that we have presented is that the main reason is that it is a weak business environment for domestic investors, and in this analysis we have shown that this primarily refers to the rule of law that is not satisfactory and at the level of corruption that is large and that it is stifling private domestic investment and prevents Serbia from achieving its potential, from currently 3 to 3.5% of growth to 5%. Yes, this is our proposal and our advice to you on these lines to lay the foundations of future economic growth.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55510	I would like to thank the rapporteur's representative. The word has a folk emissary, Ana Karadzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55511	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Professor Petrovic and his associates, the honourable MPs, is in front of the Assembly today's Report of the Fiscal Council. It is important for us here who are discussing and voting for certain laws, as well as for a government that has a particular strategy and policy to be led, but above all for citizens who listen to this, who have some subjective sense of how and how the country is progressing and whether they are satisfied with it. First of all, I would like and believe that the Fiscal Council report puts out in public that it is not political, it is economical, professional and that you are expert in making certain analyses and conclusions about the country, that is, what we are in today's situation. First of all, I would like to highlight the fact from your report that you have good co-operation with the National Assembly, with the ministries, which is a prerequisite that we have more comprehensive and objective reports in the coming period that you will present to the public and to the National Assembly. You mentioned the regulation of the pension system, that it's been going in the right direction lately. We are satisfied with the result achieved and you must understand that the decisions we have made, except that they were economically justified, that the reform of the pension system was extremely important and politically courageous, to thank the citizens for accepting those reforms, which they supported and today we are in a much better position than we were in 2012. We are all aware that both the profession and the policy must be in line to make progress, and that in certain situations the profession cannot understand politics when we talk about certain day-to-day policy developments that make certain economic-like decisions, or logical decisions at some point not too quickly, but politically correct at some point are something the Government decides on. For this reason, I understand your concern that something has not been adopted quickly enough, some recommendation, but I am sure that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is wisely leading the country and making politically courageous decisions that I believe you will also support in the next reports. In some segments of the report, we agree, and for some I can't say that we especially agree when we talk about issues that are more invested in certain segments of the public sector, such as the Army and the police. In recent years, we have found ourselves in a very difficult situation when we talk about the country's position, especially the army that was completely destroyed by 2012. And you are aware that the military sector has been completely weakened, that the tanks have been destroyed, that the weapons have been destroyed, that the soldiers have been reduced to the lowest possible level, which is why we believe that this investment in the military and the police is very important because it allows us to restore certain security and reduce the risk of the country's stability, which is very important to us because Serbia's policy is precisely in the military neutrality that we are currently managing. Also, we can say that investment in police cannot affect economic growth and the economic environment, because it affects the reduction of crime, the reduction of corruption, the reduction of a certain grey economy, introduces some jobs into legal flows, so that our opinion, although in some way it may challenge economic growth by some small percentage, is very much about the country's stability and future growth of the economic environment in Serbia. Furthermore, you talked about insufficient investment in health and education, which is what we agree with, but we are investing as much as possible right now. In the last two years, there's been a lot of investment in health infrastructure. Hospitals are open. It is also invested in new facilities such as Dedinj 2, Tirshova, a new maternity home on Bežianjska hair. Last year, there was also a consensus on a hundred new jobs for doctors, where we return to the question that this report is going through, and that is how to make these pay classes, or where the salaries should be increased, where they should be reduced. We have a limited budget, so we can't increase everyone's salary equally in that final balance. If we increase the army, which is important to us, the police, which is important to us, we should keep the doctors in the country, which are also very important to us, we should keep the teachers in the country, which are important to us, we come to the fact that every segment of society is very important, but unfortunately, the budget does not allow us to increase all of them as much as it would keep them from looking for jobs somewhere in EU countries, which is normal, because, of course, Serbia's development is not as it is currently in the EU. As for investment and economic growth, you also mentioned that it is insufficient, that it invests insufficiently in infrastructure, especially as regards the budget for reducing unemployment. I would like to point out the fact that 52 new factories have been opened recently in Serbia, a total of 28,770 new jobs and that Serbia was 65th in the world last year in terms of competitiveness of 140 at the World Economic Forum, which is a very important piece of information and shift for us, that Belgrade, as we say here, has become a construction site, and that all of this together affects the reduction of unemployment, that the agreement with Russian railways is worth 230m euros, that they are building corridors and roads that have waited 70 years to begin at all, such as the Požega-Preljina road. So it invests in infrastructure projects. We believe the figures say it can be more, but if we look at the political situation we're in today, it's undeniable that it wasn't easy and the results are excellent, but, of course, it can always be better. It is a common goal for both you and us to make the standard of living of citizens higher, to be better and more capital investment and investment and to improve the economic environment. I do not doubt your good intentions, and I hope that you will continue to take this critical look at the position of Serbia and its development, because in this way we can come up with certain constructive solutions, joint work and joint dialogue, and I really believe that both Serbia's political and economic position will be getting better in the coming period. The Socialist Movement Group, the People's Peasants' Party and the United Peasants' Party will support your report in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55512	Thank you, colleague Karadzic. The word has an authorised representative of the Serbian Progressive Party MP, MP Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55513	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here, we have a debate and I would disagree with a lot of things that have been said during the debate. First, I would draw immediate attention to the representatives of the Fiscal Council for Budget Law Procedures. These are our procedures and our procedures can only be spoken of by the MPs. Forget it right now. Now, the problem is that it came from someone who had no idea what was going on in the past few years, so if they said something like that, I'd take it. But you also knew that all the budgets were passed by 2017 with the previous IMF opinion, which we received just before the last budget deadlines. And you took part in it, and you knew it all. And then you say -- you were supposed to adopt the budget bill on January 10th, so MPs could look at it for 15-20 days, you say they need that much. What are they going to do, go into analysis? The most important are the revenue and expenditure side. That's the whole budget, the rest of them are the discretionary rights of the government, which requires that it be given the consent of the National Assembly. And what you need to pay attention to is again in that analysis, seven or eight things, and that's it. But you knew that the draft budget law could be established after the IMF's opinion was given, that it should be referred to the assembly procedure and that budget beneficiaries must be completed before 23-24 December, especially because you have transfer funds under that budget law to local self-government units, which also need their budgets to be passed on the basis of our budget and the resources that we define. It's all connected stuff. Secondly, when it comes to the IMF and what we're constantly accused of, it's that we listen to them, we follow their orders. However, not from you, fellow Members, but from fellow Members. I can say right now that it's either malicious, but it's completely incorrect. We wrote and passed the Budget Law the way it was best for Serbia. The sustainability of the budget, meaning one plan of spending financial resources, valued the IMF, did not give consent, but conditioned, appreciated. Based on this evaluation by the IMF, we were given the opportunity to serve in a cheaper way the commitments we had towards banks and other financial organisations that the Republic of Serbia owed until 2012. If we hadn't done that, no one would have believed the results of the reforms carried out, so we'd probably be on the scales today, and that's what the harshest measures of fiscal consolidation is, because everything that's done right in this Serbia has to be denied, so it denies it in the most brutal and scariest way. I accept he's doing it here in the National Assembly, but I don't accept that he works elsewhere, if he's a state body. And that's where we come to the core of the problem, even when it comes to fiscal advice. We had two really interesting working documents, whose presentation was, please imagine, at the Kopalnik Business Forum, where the representatives of the Fiscal Council presented some of their views that I really do not want to enter into their credibility, but I would ask that when they appear there they know that they work for the state of Serbia, that their work corresponds to the National Assembly, and that their private or some other impressions cannot be as members of the Fiscal Council to be held elsewhere, except in the National Assembly. Here's a very interesting text, that a strong employment growth with a slow growth in production has not even occurred, reliably raises the reliability of the labour force poll. You know, I wouldn't mind saying that here, here's nothing you're not allowed to say, only then can someone answer you, to question both your analysis and your work and everything else, but people, you go to the Business Forum on Kopalnik, which organizes one, one of the creators of the failure of the Serbian economy, Vlahovic, who started this poor privatisation and who is fatally responsible, if not morally for everything that hit them, which hit us until 2012, 2013 until 2016. ) (Mihailo Jokic: I took 5%. I don't want to talk about how much he took. So foreign ambassadors were invited there, and among other things some businessmen were invited, domestically. Great. Foreigners have been invited. You now say there – the data provided by the Republic of Serbia is not correct. Well, say that as Paul, but as President of the Fiscal Council, you can't do that. That you don't have the weight that the state gives you, but your only intellectual and scientific and nothing more, so as much as you're worth, they'll believe you. When there was a lot of data here that came in favor of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the President of the Republic of Serbia was false, I was just wondering – how in 2012 60 and over 60% of the pension fund was charged from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and today less than 40%? Where is this financial difference now? Who suddenly began to fill the budget of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund? Why didn't you give that information that he was, like, amazing? Why not ask the question that, perhaps, we had employees who were legally invisible and did not exercise their rights and that by applying the law we forced employers to report them? Could that have been one of the theories? She could've, but what didn't? Well, because you need to talk ugly about your country in front of foreign ambassadors. I don't know why. You think they'll love you more? He won't. To value you? Make sure they don't appreciate you after that, because they wouldn't do it to their countries. Or, just one piece of information, we can discuss this whole subject and discussion. The second, too, "business Forum" Kopalnik. He says so - he's applying, so among other things, watch this, at international private counseling, private. It says this - countries in Central and Eastern Europe have seen faster economic growth than Serbia in the past decades, so in economic development, GDP per capita in Serbia has been at around 62% of the average of Central and Eastern European countries, and since 2017 it has fallen to below 55%. Among other things, it is said that one of the reasons why the Republic of Serbia has this backlog is that there is also a lack of chronic lack of rule of law and that corruption is constantly present. It's said, what year, just to see, in 2018, I guess, since this was 2017. March 2019. Uh, more niggers and worse. Why didn't you mark those 3.4% minus GDP during this thieving power before us in 2009? Why didn't you go into the analysis? He says there's no trust in state institutions. Well, who made that mistrust? When did this start? You say – there are no domestic investors and subsidies to be given to them. It's the same subject I could talk about for days. But you know why? Maybe that's funny to you. Do you know how many domestic investors escaped from Serbia by 2012, the real investors who had factories? They did not resell as Miskovic stores, which had production, fled from Serbia until 2012. They sold "Deleza" and they book it as an investment, and that's how the "Maxie" was privatized, and I'm not saying it, then the "C-market". And I don't get into all the other data. Now, you tell me what our starting point is when most investors, and they're all serious people, know that by 2012, that our national currency has lost 50% of its value? You think they don't know? You think very well. Now, what do these foreign investors think, or domestically, especially about us, when they know inflation was moving from 9.5% to 14% by 2012. When you talk about corruption, fighting corruption is systemic. It can't be solved by individual arrests or individual moves. Just remember the strike at the Republic Geodetic Institute, which is still going on. Do you know what the reason is? Which I can no longer take money from parties in the process. It's systemically solved. It's no longer up to them. The party comes, submits the documentation, can also be found at the notaries, the first-degree procedure begins, within 30 days it must be completed. That's the end of the story. And now they don't let the citizens come in to hand over the paperwork, or I guess they should come in here to buy them some credit. So, who are these people? When did they get used to things like that? Certainly not 2013, 2014 and 2015. They got used to it 20 years ago. Now we can talk about many topics and many topics to open. One more thing, when we measure ourselves with the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, I have to ask another question – do they have access to EU funds? All of them. What we can apply through pre-accession funds is about a tenth of what they can take as EU members. So, are these grants significant for the growth of their GDP? They did, and a lot, double it, and we have to rely on ourselves and our resources and no one else. And then we deny that because we had to rely solely on ourselves and our resources, we had a result. I don't know, I think, let's black out everything that's good. I'm not saying that in all areas we've succeeded, but serious shifts have been made. When you say "real domestic consumption." You know, domestic consumption, living standards can be measured by something that some call science, some call method, statistics, one way or another. You know what I'm saying, here, I'm ignorant, I don't understand these things, I don't understand any of those things, and it's a traffic jam. I see we're getting along for the first time. But I see it by the number of vehicles that are on the road. That's some rapper to me. When a man starts pouring fuel into his car, going somewhere with his family on a trip, on a vacation, and even taking them to town, into a movie theater, it means that he lives better, better. It's getting more and more in Serbia, and those publications of yours and everything else you're talking about are kind of falling into the water. There's a lot more to be done, that's a fact. We have just begun the reform process, but don't compare us to those who have more free money than Serbia, who didn't have sanctions, who didn't have wars, who didn't have an atomic bomb called DOS, now the former regime. You're not going from zero, you're going from negative. That's a big difference. I suppose some of you know personally, do you love Serbia as a country? I hope you like it. Imagine, you've done something that many will move you your whole life, that one part of your profession at one point you didn't want to do. I'm talking about 2012. At that time, you did not inform the citizens of Serbia and the National Assembly of the state of our public finances. The excuse was, for a reason, I accept that the reason was that you didn't want to interfere with the election process that was under way. Is that right? Why did I ask you if you loved Serbia? If Boris Tadic, Dragan Djilas and the team won the election then, do you really think you'd be sitting here today? You'd be members of the Fiscal Council, I just don't know what, because our public finances were such that the state wouldn't exist if they had stayed for another year. The next time you think you're talking or leaning or making and the opposite, ask the question – is it just so bad that I have to work against my citizens and against my country because I don't love someone or because I don't agree with someone's politics.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55514	The word is made by the representative of the proponent, Prof. Dr. Pavle Petrovic, President of the Fiscal Council. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55515	This is a very inspiring discussion, Mr. Arsic, and it's not the first time. He's already hit it several times, but we're going to do it again... (Alexander Martinovic: What does that mean for you to "hit"? What? (Alexander Martinovic: You can't say that a man hits.) Are you taking my word? Thank you. Let's start at the end. Did we publish in 2012? Take a look at our site in April 2012 Report on the state of public finances. Therefore, the first wrong attitude. Secondly, in 2012 in June the month was not known which and what kind of government it would be. We went out with a package of consolidation of public finances and reforms. That document exists now. Fortunately, most of it has applied in these five, six, seven years. So then we publicly announced to everyone the state of public finances. What? (Marian Risticevic: You said 2020. No, in 2012, I apologize. In 2012, June the month, say 10, 12 June, and you're politicians and you know what the context was then, who could have been in the government and what was it. (Alexander Martinovic: On May 30th, Tomislav Nikolic took an oath. The context was that it was not known which government. I'll move on, if I have a word. If not, I can break up. Whether we're talking ugly about the country when we say that it's not growing enough or whether we love it, I mean the opposite. Are you, then, Mr Arsic, satisfied that Serbia is growing three to three and a half percent permanently, when its potential is, we have shown this in this paper for Kopalnik, independent of Central, Eastern Europe, we estimate, that it grows 5% annually, if appropriate measures are taken. Does this mean that we hate the country for saying it grows insufficiently, or does that mean that we love the country if we propose measures for it to grow 5%? What we've seen is that the main factors of it, where the key things are, I've said that a few times so far, and that's an analysis of the rule of law and corruption. If it only improved to the level of Bulgaria, Romania, Hungary and Croatia, this is not such a large and unattainable goal, we would see a higher growth rate of 0.5 percentage points. If we reach the standards of Central, Eastern Europe in institutions, I don't say in the second, I guess that doesn't prevent us from bombing or something like that, if the institutions, the rule of law, improved, reduced corruption, we could increase growth by one percentage point. I guess that's where it turns out again that we love the country when we want it to improve or you think we leave it like this and it's going to grow about three percent or three percent. What you object to me, to me and the Fiscal Council, is that we exposed it to the Bath. What did you say? A private gathering that organizes a man like that. Let me remind you, at least one three times Mr. Wolfie took part in the Bath when I participated. Every time he was in Kopalnik, he was the president of the Serbian government, and the last two times, when I put this out, was Mrs. Ana Brnabic. Each time he was finance minister, the last twice governor of Ms Tabakovic, and still several other ministers -- Mihajlovic, Djordjevic, Antic and so on. So I don't see it as a private gathering. If all these people can participate and express their views, then I guess the Fiscal Council can. We were invited there, as was the National Bank representative, such as the Ministry of Finance, the Prime Minister and others. As far as the labour force survey is concerned, there is an unequivocal analysis of us. If you think otherwise, write the argument text. These ad hoc improvisations are not arguments. Write that down, and we can discuss it in public. We can do it differently. Let's all be interested here, sit tight, go through the numbers. We're up to facts and arguments. Yes, it is not the goal of speaking uglyly, but of expressing facts and not of presenting private facts, but of facts that are in Serbia's interest. In that sense, I can convince you, Mr. Arsic, that I will continue to present those facts. Now regarding the start and procedure of the Budget Law. Only MPs can discuss that. I disagree. The law is the law. Therefore, if the law applies, then it applies to everything and every citizen can discuss it. Since this is the Bill on the Budget System, it needs a particularly fiscal council to discuss it. Third thing, you should know that there is something in this Budgetary Procedure Act called a fiscal strategy. Under the law, the government should send a fiscal strategy to the Council that it is assessed and now the government has done so for the first time since 2011 and we welcome it. When it is assessed, then the fiscal strategy is sent to the Assembly and that is the first framework for the next budget. Then there is a revised fiscal strategy, at the end of October, which represents a framework for the budget next year and a view for the next three years. Once again, according to the law, the Fiscal Council should consider it, so it's not exactly what you're saying is the budget procedure is just a matter of MPs, it's a matter of the Fiscal Council. I wonder, maybe it was a misunderstanding, it's true – the budget process couldn't be respected while the house was on fire and you're right. That's what we used to say. I can understand that it's a misunderstanding. So it wasn't possible to bring the budget in on November 1st, send it to the Assembly, when by the last moment it was seen what was the situation and discussed what to do with the IMF. But that's changed since the public finances stabilized. Already in 2017, we have a normal situation, and at least the 2018 budget, and definitely the 2019 budget, because the Ministry of Finance talks with the IMF last year ended at the beginning of October. Thus, the budget could have been passed by the government and entered into the Assembly and the Assembly had a month and more to adopt it, to consider it first, and then to adopt it. I don't understand your comment – what there is to consider, there are incomes and expenses and a few other things. Do you represent that MPs are non-analyzing the budget? I don't believe you represent it. So every regulated country has to fiscally give enough space to the MPs to consider the budget. The good news seems to be that it will be the first time this year and that it will happen, and of course I hope that you will not oppose the fact that MPs will have 20 days to watch incomes and expenditures and things like that. The last thing about the budgetary procedure is the adoption of the final account. I must admit that the radicals there were the first to insist. This is now becoming really urgent when one side of success is the consolidation of public finances and the balance of budgets, which means that they have entered normal waters. When normal waters are entered in that narrow budget sense, then procedures must be respected. Therefore, since 2015 there has been no public-published document final account of the budget and we cannot therefore know the individual items where everything has been spent. In the last year and a half, if not two, we insisted that it be published. By law, it's the law again, it's supposed to happen in July. There are indications by the government that for the first time this year, the report on the final budget account will be published and will be able to be analysed. Two brief remarks. When we asked for the suspension of the Interim Pension Reduction Act in 2017, you accused me of having a private interest in politics. After a year, that law was abolished. I assume you voted to terminate, even though you accused me of politics a year before. After that, when the Fiscal Council said that discretionary pension shifts had to be lifted, then you transferred us to politics again, and now I expect the government to propose a pension indexation formula and I hope that you will change your mind again and vote in favour of the government's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55516	Thank you. Right on line, MP Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55517	Let's put things in place right now. I'm sorry I pissed you off. It wasn't my intention. It's just a discussion. There's this one in the congregation every day. What's fiscal advice? A simple question – what is the Fiscal Council? Some body whose role is defined by the Budgetary System Act. Who does the Fiscal Council work for? Who does the Fiscal Council work for? You want me to tell you? To the National Assembly. For no one else. You are our asset, tool, call whatever you want to tell us what the Government of the Republic of Serbia is doing with public finances, not walking around the white world. That's your role, that's why you exist, that's why you're designed. When it comes to this Business Forum on the Kopalnik, you say it's not private. So is the Vienna Economic Forum private? Yes, it is. I've been a couple of times. They go there and everyone tells their story. Everyone praises their company, company, etc. And this is over there. She was the Prime Minister. She talked about the results of her government. She didn't say anything bad about her country. He was the President of the Republic. He spoke nicely of his country. She was governor of the NBS. She spoke nicely of her country. You're the only one who went to talk to the foreign ambassadors and foreign investors and the domestics about your country. That's what you're talking about here. There's a place. That's the truth. That's the difference between understanding your role. You have no right to abuse the function you're in and go around and talk bad. So here you have the right to criticise both the Minister and the Prime Minister, everything but MPs. You can go into discussion with them. And you're right about the governor. Whoever you want from the executive authority you have the right to criticise, but don't do it on non-state forums. Don't do that. It would be the same as when Vuk Jeremic went to the UN to speak ill of his Serbia. You want such a role to play? You want him to be like him?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55518	I thank my colleague Arsic. The floor has a representative of the promoter, Prof. Dr. Pavle Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55519	Regarding the Kopalnik Business Forum, like President Vukic, such as Prime Minister Ana Brnabic, Finance Minister, I spoke in Serbia's interest and what I think is good for Serbia. So, like they didn't speak in private, I didn't speak in private. As they were invited for their function, so I was invited and spoken. What may seem ugly to you, and I don't think it is, and in fact you're implicitly saying -- it's good that Serbia is always lagging behind the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, growing 3% and always being so. I don't agree with that. On the contrary, I think it's good for Serbia to grow 5%, which is its potential, and since I wouldn't just want to say 5.7.12%, we've made an effort to do an analysis of how and to achieve it. We can sit down and go through that analysis of ours and you can say this is not, but I think the purpose is to make a policy and a system that will make it possible. Serbia can grow 5%, more than Central and Eastern Europe. We stand for it when you put it in my mouth, because we love Serbia, but then because we love, we have to give the best we know the recommendations for it. If you see it as bad, if you think it's better to blur things out, talk – well, it's okay to grow 3%, then that's where our seeing what it means to love the country is different.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55520	Thank you. Right on line, MP Veroljub Arsic. Here's a colleague of Arsic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55521	Don't honor me for saying or wanting something that never occurred to me at all. What you're saying is that I want exactly how much you've been publishing your reports on the site since 2012, it seems to me that you've only started to do this since 2014. So much for that. (Pavel Petrovic: It is not true. Now tell me, I'd like you to explain, there are some people sitting there who decide whether to invest in Serbia or not. The ambassadors who are to lobby their businessmen to bring you to Serbia, and you tell them what you say and say - I was telling the truth. First I don't agree that it's true, but okay. But do you know where this problem is being solved and where the dialogue is? Here. This is where the law is passed. This is where strategies are established, here strategies are given consent. So instead of inviting a colleague, Tomic - let's have a joint session of the Finance, Republic Budget and Control Committee, and let's see what we can do with the state, and let's call the Minister of Finance, and let's call the Minister of Business, and let's sit down with them to solve problems, if there are, in this form or in that form, anyway. That's the difference. You have to understand that. Your primary role is to control the state of public finances in the Republic of Serbia on behalf of the National Assembly, to monitor how the Government implements its strategy and to inform the National Assembly. When there is an important deviation to inform immediately the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds that has the right to react. When you realize that you are the means of the National Assembly, and it does not speak for itself and that you exist for yourself, then we can talk.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55522	I thank my colleague Arsic. The word is made by the President of the Fiscal Council, Prof. Dr. Pavle Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55523	So the law says -- the fiscal council is an independent state body. That's the first attitude. Second position, here's your inaccuracy right now, where did you get the idea that there's only been reports on our site since 2014? (Alexander Martinovic: That's what it says. () All our reports that we sent to the congregation, look at the site, have been since we formed. As soon as we formed the site, it means 2011. Now, you're telling Mr. Arsic that what I brought to the Bath I was supposed to bring here to the Assembly, am I understood? And the main argument is, because there's investors out there in the Kopalnik, so they won't invest. Does that mean that what I'm bringing out in the Assembly is not going to be heard by investors, so they're going to invest. That's the first attitude. The second attitude is, so don't think they're so naive that you can fool them with some jokes. The best policy, that's my position, the best fundamental and economic policy is to bring out the real state of affairs. And here's why, if you cover up something that's real, why is economic growth so lower, when foreign investors discover it, they won't believe you're even balanced by the budget, which you really are. Not only does it balance, but it's going to be that way for the next four or five years, which it really is, and that public debt with the policy as it's being run, will suddenly start to suffer, which is actually going to happen. If you lose credibility on one side, then when you do it right, it won't help you. Otherwise, around the meeting we have been offering, here and now we offer, special meetings with MPs where, on a work basis, we talk openly on some topics, we come from the point of view. So, it's true, we come to the Assembly once a year, so every year, the committee is plenary, but we haven't offered, because that committee has a lot of points and is tied to the budget, so over the year, based on the interest of MPs, all MPs, we make a working meeting and we discuss certain topics and we see. We're not saying to put our attitudes, you and yours, and to see how these things stand, what priorities, what really stand, but in such an atmosphere you can do with numbers, so if we don't have something then we can do it again. So the conclusion is that we offered these meetings and offered them again, in the future, and we think that we would be useful and we expect it to happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55524	Thank you. Right on line, MP Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55525	Dear President of the Fiscal Council, read the article to the end, not half. That's why you have these problems with the MPs so they don't trust you. He says so - The fiscal council is an independent state body, the 2nd position of Article 92, so he says - for performing business under his jurisdiction, the Fiscal Council is responsible to the National Assembly. You are independent of the executive authority, not according to the National Assembly. Kick you out of the head of the fourth branch of power, it doesn't exist. He says this, it seems to me in Article 92g, I'm not so sure - the Fiscal Council is doing the following tasks, preparing opinions, drawing up a fiscal strategy, preparing... etc. The fiscal council shall submit from the analysis referred to in point (2) of Article 1 of this Article to the National Assembly within 15 days. Everything you do informs the National Assembly. That's why I'm telling you, it's not where you belong, it's here. We will be very happy to put you as a representative even into the National Assembly delegation to go to the Kopalnik Business Forum, but the problems are solved here, not there. That's where everyone advertises for themselves, the problem is here, this is where it's solved. So forget about those stories. What's most important is that when you say something there, who's going to answer you? Most of the time, no one. Here, if you're right, we'll talk about you being right. If we disagree, we'll talk about disagreeing, we'll make counter arguments. Whatever it is, it can't be bad for the state, whatever it is. When you speak unilaterally, without an answer, believe me, it can never be good.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55526	Thank you. Professor, there will be time to discuss this, but we must respect the Rules of Procedure. It's all right, Professor, let me just, we have to respect the Rules of Procedure. Since 1400 hours, the honourable MPs, are in accordance with Article 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I set a break of one hour. We continue work at 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55527	We're going back to work. In accordance with Article 27 and Article 87(2) and (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'd like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours. Do any of the representatives of the parliamentary groups or the president want a word? The word has been given to the People's Messenger Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55528	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the subject of the Fiscal Council's report is those topics that are in principle neither political nor administratively so interesting. That is why, by following up on all the debates so far, it is actually evident that there is not too much juice for political interest. The fiscal council itself actually belongs to those bodies that are again and not by their nature attractive, because all independent bodies or so on. independent bodies, however, actually fall into that category, but definitely this body, as well as this body's report, fall into very important segments of the state and state organisation and the necessity to come to an end with full seriousness. So, as far as the report itself is concerned, it represents some kind of factography behind which the members of this council are credible. However, considering this report, we come to a greater dilemma of a certain balance between the quantity and the quality of bureaucracy itself, the paper produced by this bureaucracy and on the other hand the efficiency itself. Definitely, countries that go through transition are very often tempted to actually fall into a trap of form, to have everything in shape, without ultimately being a result of satisfying, or the one we expect. Analyzing the report again, I also took a look at the review of the Fiscal Council of March of this year, which I think is very high-quality, and which, perhaps bitterly sometimes for our ears, has, however, noted real problems in our society, problems that are not even difficult to define, but which are not easy to deal with at all and are actually three key problems, as they said in this analysis – the problem of the rule of law, the problem of corruption and the problem of the quality of education itself. So we definitely need to have courage, from all positions, and first of all from the position of the National Assembly to look at actually this reality and to get the powers of the superseded, super-political to face these problems. That's actually a fact. Yesterday on the previous report, I actually touched this topic, the state budget is a vessel, and from how correct that vessel is it will keep the money within itself. As much as we manage to cure, shut up, close the cracks on that loan, we'll have a healthy budget, we'll have a healthy fiscal policy, and eventually we'll have a healthy state that's actually going to play that role that she needs. I would certainly support this report, but I think that with more positions to accept these suggestions, we should find a way more courageous to face the issue of corruption. I'm saying, you can see now in recent years, after a serious effort from the top of the state, that there's a slow difference between what's done at the central government level and what we see in certain cases at local level. So this takes a lot of courage, it takes determination, but it's crucial that we admit it and it's crucial that we face it. Certainly the issue of corruption and the issue of rule of law are very important, but the question of education is whether or not to be both states and societies. It is a question of who needs to be given a more significant place in every respect, including just budgeting and everything else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55529	Thank you. The People's Messenger Miladin Shevarlic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55530	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that yesterday, through the Office of the National Assembly, I have received a solution from the Constitutional Court of Serbia, as the first signator of two requests to open proceedings before the Constitutional Court of the Group of more than 25 MPs, as the Constitution normally states, for the assessment of the constitutionality of the Retirement Act. This solution suspends all procedures, although it has been nine and more months since the submission of our demands with 27 MPs, or with 31 MPs later. Without criticising at all the constitutional court that decision would be made, I must say that I am very disappointed as a MP that the Constitutional Court did not respect the provisions of the Constitution, because the Constitutional Court cannot assess whether or not it will initiate proceedings at least 25 MPs. What kind of decision that will make is another matter in which we, as MPs, cannot influence, but to suspend the procedure nine months after the application, without starting the procedure, is really wrong. The question is then what will pensioners do with individual requirements, which referred to the Constitutional Court or the Pensioners' Association, if a qualified group of MPs under the Constitution could not be respected by the Constitutional Court. Secondly, there was a debate here yesterday whether diaspora is the largest donor and investor of the Republic of Serbia. Unquestionably, it is, the biggest, most favourable, no interest and no refund of those funds, and how do we treat the diaspora? The Prime Minister has even a special portfolio related to the digitisation and use of modern IT. Well, why, at least for the next election, we don't introduce an electronic vote for the diaspora, but people in Australia, Canada, America and Russia, etc., other countries where it takes thousands of miles to travel to a polling post in a consular representation or other place chosen, we can't do it at all, and we have a situation where prisoners in one prison are more voters than total diaspora. That's what we need to take care of. The third question is – why the construction of the Preljina-Pojate highway is left to a US contractor who is more than an offer for 300m euros than was offered by a Chinese contractor. The fourth question, and here I would ask the members of the Fiscal Council to answer, since according to the Constitution, state land cannot be sold. How was the PKK agricultural land sold when it was social property? Second, how was it sold at unfair cost? How was it sold under unfair conditions? There was only one participant. As conditions changed during the privatisation process. In the first privatisation process, there were no clauses such as in the second that at least 400 million total incomes were required for the agriculture company. The company she bought was registered as d.o.o. in Serbia, it had no income of 400m euros. Furthermore, why isn't the price offered, but only who is the bidder, when the offer is announced and opened? How it's a public opening offer without knowing who the bidder is, which he offered the price. Finally, we couldn't get a privatisation contract for the PKK, i.e. the sale of the PKK, but in the means of information, I read that there is a clause in that contract that the buyer can sell 10% of the purchased land over the next three years. Since the price is now around 38,000 euros in agricultural land, it is eight times the price, how much will the buyer earn by selling it itself three times 10%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55531	Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55532	About this last one, since it seems most interesting to me, although I don't know, it seems that the questions were addressed to the Fiscal Council, I believe Mr. Ševarlic expects you to answer it too. As far as the PKK is concerned, it's here to be honest with you to the end of the fiscal council. So, don't think of it as something bad, on the contrary, you'll see it in this annual report that we're talking about and in their views on this subject. What I can tell you is that absolutely none of the grudges on whether the correct price is obtained, why it's not bigger, who answered and why. So it's absolutely known how this process was going and it's also known, that it would absolutely be, as far as we're concerned, more than welcome to get more money, but we're not because nobody was willing to pay it more than what it was worth at the end. That's the whole truth. Whether it was a 50% higher-value procedure before what you're talking about right now. He was, and who answered? Nobody. So, some things, it's just market logic, if someone doesn't want to pay as much as we'd like, so what can we do, insist that it has to be done in a certain way. No, but we'll either find a solution so that it can work or we'll stay in trouble until the end. What we chose and what the Fiscal Council also values correctly on its own side, we decided to find a solution so that it can work. Why did it come to not be worth as much as we would like? Well, it'd be best if they came up with, say, Dragan Gilas. You have, I believe, had enough opportunities to participate in the election lists with his co-workers this morning to establish contact, if you were interested in asking the question personally and to ask the man, why from year to year while Dragan Gilas personally cheered and clothed the fate of the company, recorded dubiosis and lack, and then falsely presented and today he tells it today and is not ashamed to lie today, that it was actually a great business success. When you look at the structure, and that's not what I'm telling you, that's what the BIRN, KRIK, and so on, they're doing research on it. When you look at the structure, it's all go minus that's measured year after year, tens of millions of euros, and after falsely presenting that it's some kind of success, and you'll see how, by writing down the claim, it's not. And, like he lied about having great salaries and it wasn't planned for his management to pay its own bonuses, so he lied about this. Why did you do that? That's what I have an interpretation for. I think it went on purpose, that this company should be ruined to the point that it's worth nothing, and that whoever personally gets old enough to take it away, as our people would say, for nothing. That didn't work. What proves to you that what we've managed to achieve as a price is real. Well, the fact that he could have called whoever he wanted. Well, Dragan Gilas or anyone else, that he was really interested in doing something as successful as he would, could show up alone, compete, offer more if he thought it was worth more and do whatever he wanted. Does he show up? Well, he did, just like RTB Bor did in the same way. So it's just stories, what we've done, and it'll certainly explain the fiscal advice if you ask them directly. It is a realistic, serious and responsible act, a course in which you make sure that something works, that it works, that it contributes to both its employees and its own state, and it does not care about its own pocket, which unfortunately on the PKK, was a decisive motive for some who unfortunately once again made this country and its citizens cheer and dress it. I think it's clearer for the shade now.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55533	The People's MP, Miladin Ševarlic, has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55534	The PKK Corporation is at the doorstep, Europe's most decorated land complex. Although at least your regime has not been enough for six years to recover this company, you cannot constantly blame the previous regime. How much debt was the PKK due at the end of 2012, and how much was it in the sale of PKK assets? Furthermore, has the PKK been liquidated or sold? Because, let's say, foreign investment consultant Miladin Kovacevic, but not this director of the Republic Statistics Institute, but the other one, says it's a specific kind of liquidation of the PKK. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55535	The People's MP Vladimir Orlic has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55536	It's said by people who can't be said to be politically sympathetic to us in any way, by people who deal with these things seriously, and when we disagree, we admit that people deal with these things seriously. They say, as much as we want, as much as we love it, it couldn't have worked in a way that we, by force of God, insist that it serves us for what we think it should serve us and that it has to work beyond all market conditions. So it just couldn't have done that. That's why it went to the solution of finding someone who as owner would be able to take it financially and give it some sense, make some money, something worth it to people who were hired there. But once again, Belgrade in Serbia, however you will, in a broader picture, if we are talking about the regime, why don't you ask your regime a question? So when I say Dragan Gilas, I mean your regime. Did he personally take over the PKK team? Yes, it is. What did he personally show as a result? I just told you. And, I told you, don't take my word for it, check out these sources that you trust, your CRIKs, BIRNs, CINS, etc. It's on their websites, they've been investigating it, and they've found, from year to year, tens of millions of dues to the PKK. I'm telling you what I think about why, because someone purposely wanted to do it that way. So, if we're going to talk about these things seriously, we need to remind you that these people have been doing these things, not because we're trying to take some responsibility off ourselves today, no, I'm telling you quite frankly, we don't think we're responsible for what the PKK is going to do, what's working. So that's a good thing. I'm telling you, the fiscal council is a good thing, just like the solution to RTB Bor's good thing. We don't wash and apologize for that, we're happy to find that solution, you should understand that, just as we do for “The Iron Man. ” We remind you of what these people have been doing, for one very important reason – never, ever, ever let them do it again. Today they say themselves: “We talked about it yesterday; you were not in the O.R. at that moment. ” They admit that they were welcomed by the moment when the people sent them to the elections, and they say, "I don't know what they're doing, I don't know what they're doing," they say, "We ended this period by having fairies, by having big foreign bank accounts, by having nice fat furniture in international boards." And allow these people to take care of some municipality or city business again?- I'm sorry. Well, you know what, this people and this country deserve a lot better. Besides, don't trust me either, ask the citizens so they'll tell you as convincingly as, say, Kosovo and Metohija a few weeks ago or in Mayur, just the other day. What we're talking about and about these results, out of 15 available places or results, goes 15. For what they did to Gilas and this regime of yours, do you know how long it's been? There's zero.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55537	You have no right to the replica of your colleague Chevarlich. No condition has been met. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55538	May I?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55539	Wait for my colleague Risticevic, please. The word is Pavle Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55540	For the PKK and other state-owned companies and long-lost ones, the Fiscal Council proposes restructuring and privatisation as a principle solution. So, in principle, we agree with that solution and so far our competence goes. We don't know the details of that transaction, nor do we have the capacity to do it. The question of selling land, it's not for us either, that should be referred to the legal department, to someone who's involved. So, in principle, related to the angle of fiscal, a large number of state-owned enterprises have long worked with subsidies and generated costs ineffectively and we have advocated and advocated that it is cleared, whether it is privatized and thus sustainable, if it cannot survive, then it is necessary to close it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55541	Right on the line, here you go, Mr. Chevarlich.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55542	Thank you. First, state property is an official form of property under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Second, land in state property cannot be sold, it can be issued in a long-term lease, etc. Third, you have a number of other state-owned enterprises or state-owned enterprises. One of them is, for example, a bank that is now being prepared for privatisation -- "The Commercial Bank", which paid off 100 million disputed claims in the previous years, in the last year, it achieved, if I am not mistaken, a 70m-euro profit. Why would they sell that bank if it's going to make 210m euros more profitable over the next three years? Don't we have enough banking brains in Serbia to do it ourselves? Do we have to do this at all costs? How many state banks exist in other countries, Germany, Italy, etc? Why are we doing this at all costs? Will the Investment Fund continue the business of the Commercial Bank in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55543	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55544	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs say, the PKK is at the doorstep, the PKK is still at the doorstep. Once you have to understand, and in this report, it's being implemented, some heads in communism, and the body in capitalism, and that's our problem. The agricultural combination of Belgrade didn't go anywhere, the land didn't go anywhere, the capital that entered was to settle the loss which I believe was Mr. Orlic, 87m euros. When it was so profitable, why did Gilas' management come from Delta, why did he lose 87m euros? They used to load up like somebody else's mare, like a mate's mare, which was social and stately, it was nothing. The state is a complex product that has long been made. Money's a commodity. We're here to discuss this report that also has these communist elements, from those positions that we don't know how money is made, just how it's spent. In general, the debates in this assembly are about consumption. The fiscal council controls one part, but the macroeconomic situation describes many parts. The main product before us in this country was debt. That's when it got really loaded up like a dude's mare. No one here is saying that the state is without production, the car is without engine and gearbox, that the state is without investment and without production, the car is without engine, gearbox and fuel. So, investments are fuel that flows, that car can only go downhill, no gearbox, no investment, no engine, that car goes downhill, and we're moving uphill. When you were founded in 2011, and it says here that the National Assembly is in charge of you, we are here discussing an act called – the conclusion of the Committee. The proposer of the act is Aleksandra Tomic. She's representing the draft act, but I don't mind discussing your report. Of course there's a little bit of courting the opposition here. GDP growth is far bigger per capita head than you count, if Gilas had made it, you would have calculated it a little differently. If we say that in the last few years we have lost, say, 200,000 people, GDP growth is 4.5% because it has a smaller population, so that growth per capita is far greater than it is shown in the entire country. Budget surplus. From the two billion deficits, as it was in 2012, we came to a surplus. Reduce unemployment. It's possible that the statistical method is wrong, but at the same time the PIO fund, the donations to the PIO fund fell from 50% to 32%. This shows that we are full of real resources, that this employment and unemployment reduction is not just based on statistics, which makes you want to say it. A stable course, low inflation, investment growth, higher coverage of exports, built highways, construction of railways, etc. There's not much here, but there are copying schools. You say on page 25 – Corridor 10 may not end even in 2018. This is the 2018 report, and you write in it that it may not end in 2018. It's obvious that someone who wrote this report mixed up the years. That's why I say there are various elements. Then you say in the discussions - the domestic private sector. The domestic private sector? So our heads in communism, our body in capitalism, Tito died, no social property, but you say domestic private sector. And what foreign private sector is that? For me, foreign capital is foreign investment, and companies are ours, registered in the APR. They're domestic firms. In the era of globalisation and liberalisation, when the means to work are very easily moved, can they go to Indonesia, Indonesia, etc., where it works for a dollar, say and discriminate, and it was felt in speech, foreign investors and call them a foreign private sector and separate them from the domestic private sector? Why isn't there any domestic investment, as you say? Well, because they ate up the battery before us, because the public sector lived as it wanted, because they hired and loaded really like a partner and there was no battery, there was no money, and those who were happy winners and brought 51 billion out, by the estimates of foreign organizations, dollars, don't even think about returning money here. If they wanted to invest it here, they wouldn't have brought it out of here. That kind of thing for me is all the investments, the gas that goes into a engine called the economy. For me, it's money, and we don't just have to discuss how it's spent, but how it's earned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55545	Thank you, colleague Risticevic. Dr. Pavle Petrovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55546	An explanation about the domestic private sector. You have to have a diagnosis to make it work. First position, investments in Serbia are low, 18% of GDP, compared 23 to 25. Then you're looking at why it's low. Look at foreign direct investment and see that they are at regional level and greater than that. When you look at the other two, how much the domestic sector invests and how much the state invests, the state also invests insufficiently, now it increases the main disproportion, the main pain is that the investments in the domestic private economy are small and then the question that we are taking to stimulate it to catch up with our potential. Only in this sense is our analysis separates the private sector, domestically compared to the party. There is also an economic analysis of logic. Our analysis has shown that investments are low in the domestic private sector because the economic environment is not good for them. The economic environment is the same for all, but foreign direct investors have ways to fight for their rights. Small domestic investors don't have that. So the only purpose of separating these two sectors was to diagnose it and see where the measures should be taken. As far as Corridor 2018 is concerned, we still seem to have guessed, no matter what we said may not end.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55547	Thank you, Professor Petrovic. Right on the replica, MP Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55548	Ladies and gentlemen, for me, everything is a domestic sector, a domestic sector, everything in Serbia, except foreign representations. So, origin of capital, we can talk about that. Fundamental rights are very easy to pass on. Delez is the best illustrator, but will you tell me already whether Miskovic and Delta were a domestic investor, a foreign investor, was it a domestic economic factor or a foreign factor? I believe you will answer me impartially. Also, I'd like to hear if your investments were the famous Dinkic's, Labus's, Kostunica's, Boris's famous investment, where investment seems to me to be selling securities of value? That's what Mr. Arsic must know. That's why I said the product was long. When the state is in debt, the people write a note. That debt is now insufferable 55%. You said before in some report, I read it, of course, you were wrong again, fortunately. I'm grateful for your criticism. The state should always be grateful for the criticism. I see you as opponents just to criticize us, not just to praise us, but to tell us if those records that were sold were investment. When the state is in charge, the people write their notes, but unlike private borrowing, when you're a jury, you're wondering whether or not you want to be a jury. Our decisions are always difficult. That's why we're looking to take it apart, to make the debt fall, to detach the citizens, because they're guaranteed. We guarantee with them. They're girants. Seven million people are hung over for this debt, and that's why this debt needs to be reduced. You said that the debt in an earlier report would fall to 60% in 2020 and, fortunately, you were wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55549	Thank you. He has the right to a replica by Prof. Dr. Pavle Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55550	First of all, it is important to know that the revised size of GDP is higher and thus the debt ratio and GDP has fallen more than we expected then. So it's a statistical correction, carried out by the Bureau of Statistics and, by our analysis, we think he did it well. For these private investments, I don't know how to explain it. We're talking about two parallel planes. The only thing I'm trying to tell you, without any names, is that when you separate three sectors of investment, you see that the main problem is not foreign direct investment, there are enough, fortunately. The state's problem is that they are small, but this is now increasing with this budget and the basic issue is remaining investments, which are domestic private sector investments. That analysis shows that if so, and we need growth, we need to stimulate them. I can't explain this to you otherwise.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55551	Thank you, Professor Petrovic. Right on line, MP Marijan Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55552	I've seen this in your domestic economy. I've seen more of MK Comerz. It's funny to you, and I don't. You laugh. I wish there was Alexandra Tomic, who proposed this act, the conclusion that she answered me. I've seen these privates by 2010 that they've carried out it seems to me that most integrated said 51 billion dinars from privatisations on various fictitious jobs, orders, etc. I saw myself in this domestic sector -- three euro sugars with 164 ha of land, and here we are talking about the PKK, about a change in ownership. They've taken out the money and they have no intention of bringing it back to this country. They have produced poverty through the expense of money, and you have not answered me, you will answer me, Mr Arsic, whether Miskovic belongs to the domestic sector or to the foreign sector, given that his company was first registered in Cyprus and when he sold the company in Serbia, it was sold by the company from Cyprus. So, according to you, he wasn't a domestic economic operator, you didn't say that, but I can conclude that Miskovic was a foreign business entity and that he wasn't a domestic. Most of them, look where the MK commercial is registered, see who owns it, the ones you think are domestic businessmen. They won't invest anything like that. They'll invest small craftsmen, small industrialists, they'll invest. And those who robbed us, that money won't come back from the Cooks and Virgin Islands on a hip summer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55553	Thank you. Right to the replica, once again, Prof. Dr. Pavle Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55554	When you look at the reports, you can see that we are just talking about small and medium-sized enterprises and that just for small and medium-sized enterprises, it's a crucial rule of law and corruption to move away, that they invest and develop. What you're saying right now, I don't know what it is? Is our economy supposed to be state-owned? Shouldn't it be private? So, small and medium-sized enterprises, of course, are large, but the main ones are small and medium-sized enterprises, domestic, which can't develop because of this environment that it is. That was our argument, and I don't understand it.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55555	Thank you, Professor. Right on the line, Marijan Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55556	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, how do you think the robbers invest? I'd like to see how those who, say, were going to have to wait a few months to collect their goods, how could these little craftsmen now invest and from where? It used to be about banks. We didn't sell the banks to strangers. These banks were sold during Kostunica, Tadic, etc. But you didn't answer me if Miskovic was a domestic businessman or was he a foreigner? And now I'm asking you about Gilas. Since United Media is registered in Luxembourg, there is an integral part of it, that there is the "Adria News" of N-1 TV ownership, so you can tell me about United Group, whose owner became "BC partners", before that David Petreus, who is on the commercials, and Dragan Gilas, Mr. Arsic, is living proof of whether Dragan Gilas was a domestic businessman? Now I've told you where everything was registered, what everything is and how connected they are. Sam Solak says, "I'm a taxpayer in Switzerland," and from here across the border, it pumps out hundreds of millions of euros a year. Is Dragan Gilas and are the Solak two acquisitions of the great former regime, are they the ones to invest? They took small television commercials on cross-border television. They were registered in the white world islands, the Netherlands, Luxembourg, etc. What are they? Is Gilas a domestic investor and where did he get 500 million euros from? I guess he invested those underground containers and that pioneer town over there that he invested, now all that's left is rats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55557	Thank you. The right to replica has Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55558	I find that story about domestic investment interesting, and there's always a question of why they're not here. That's right. Now, you think someone took it, so he said it was corruption, that it was a harder thing, etc. That's not true. I'm telling you right now, it's not true. What's the problem? They are exhausted and cannot recover from the losses they had in the business from 2008 to 2012 when they paid interest and 40% on withdrawed funds from banks, which through high interest, through exchange rates. They're still fighting to survive and to cover the results of a boastful relationship with their own citizens who had a former regime. We can talk about money that pulls foreign companies to invest here, so they can still draw more favourable credit lines for an entire percentage or two from other banks that don't operate here, than domestic small businesses can. But still the history of these companies, when it comes to these interest rates and these loans indexed in foreign currencies, they still go to business banks as a certain degree of lateness unless some of the wars paid ahead and automatically disqualified it in a larger loan war. Now, these are the problems of domestic economy. And the question arises - what about the large systems that are privatized? Where'd they go? They were the engine of some country's development. Like, what about the IKL? They built apartment buildings where the factory was. And then we'll go on our feet like that, talk to them at the forums. Yeah, that's right. You are, I admit, knowledge and profession and everything else, when something, the starting price is 20% of the book value, would you sell your car, your private car, at the book value of one fifth or at the market price that is on the market? Here, would you do that? That would be three euros, according to counterpart Marijan Risticevic. Now you expect those who came to tycoon property and held that property just to unload it, resell it, that was with the PKK, don't let anyone defend it. Not to mention why the PKK came back, they wanted to get to the city building land that is now agricultural and there to build buildings and villas and sell out, that's what Gilas did. Now there's farm land left.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55559	Thank you, colleague Arsic. The right to replication is mentioned by Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55560	Thank you very much. For colleagues who are not easy to cope with in these nested replicas, a direct question was raised by Marijan Risticevic at the beginning of his first address. So the direct issue he referred to is to write off the PKK's commitment in years when Gilas directly decided on the company. Here, I mentioned that there are sources that, absolutely, however you look, you can't call to be classified on our side, on the side of the SNS. On the contrary. Here, I'll read it to you, I just looked it up, and you can check it out while I'm talking. This is the site behind which I think, according to their own claim, that organization of CRTA stands. That is, therefore, the people, the source of Dragan Gilas. You saw for sure that CRTE director near Djilas, Jeremic and Obradovic stood outside the presidency building when they stormed the cordons. So, they're associates now. These Gilas associates here are what they say in the PKK text and written off commitments that are measured by tens of millions of euros in those years. I read to you the quote from their site from their text, says - Net profit, without write-off in 2010 when the company passed under Dragan Gilas's paw, minus 30.7m euros, in 2011 minus 18.35, next year minus 9.25, next year minus 10.82m euros, next year minus three. That when they add up, that's tens of millions of euros that we're talking about. With all these writings, they still couldn't complete the lack of cover. When Dragan Gilas talks, he says – behold, in 2013, it says that there were 2.2 billion dinars in plus net profits. The falsified data gives you. So then he took those tens of minuses for that year just turned into dozens of pluses through the write-off, and despite that massive write-off, it's no good. Without that write-off, I'm telling you one more time, minus 35, plus minus 17, plus minus 10, etc. Look what they did to the company. It was a question of what it looked like and what this is now for the left-wing of Dragan Gilas when he tells you – I will nationalize the PKK and RTB will nationalize. He's gonna nationalize everything. Here again, because I think these sources are more interesting to the public, out of the mouth of those who are his associates, this is what he said on the topic of this newly discovered left-wing of Dragan Djilas Branislav Trifunovic. You know, he ran those failed protests of his until yesterday. At the question of journalists, he says, Gilas says he's left-handed, here's what Trifunovic says -- that sounds funny, that's a man who has millions, I don't believe in his left-wing, it can be anything else, that left-wing capitalism is a little too funny. I wouldn't add anything to this. I think, Mr. Risticevic, that the information was the one you were looking for.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55561	Thank you, Dr. Orlic. Professor Miladin Ševarlic called. On what grounds, Professor?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55562	Replica, if you can.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55563	But I was instructed, since I didn't have a session at the time, by Vice President Arsic that no one mentioned you directly. If so, here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55564	If I'm supposed to be an opposition icaban here, tell me, I'm going out without a proper debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55565	Absolutely not, you have all the rights like everyone else. I had to ask you. Don't be mad at me.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55566	It was just that I didn't have twice as much time in that previous session, since two sessions ago, to a special session. When we talk about "PKB", I'm probably in this room, probably the last one to be on "PKB" and run a delegation from Russia. I ran a business delegation from Russia a month ago. I've seen new mechanisms, new investments that the investor has acquired, and I know the situation much better than some who think they know the "PKB", but let's go back, what has the state done for the losses of the "PKB"? The State has put the ‘PKB’ in a discriminatory position, since the subsidy regulation prescribed that only seven dinars per litre of milk be granted up to three million liters quarterly, i.e. up to 12 million liters per year. Other major producers were breaking it into five, six farms. The "PKB" as a state farm could not, without the government's consent, be divided intoOURs and therefore, five-sixths of the production did not receive subsidies. Multiply that by seven dinars per litre, multiply it by years, and see how the state has damaged the level playing field of the PKB. Not to mention who the "PKB" contribution was during hyperinflation, when they gave products below cost, which the "PKB" contribution was during the bombing, etc. I'll ask you if the private owner will give milk in case you don't give God. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55567	Thank you, Professor. (Marian Risticevic: Replica. I was mentioned. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55568	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, Mr Orlic and I are not members of the same parliamentary group. So, I've been mentioned three times, the replica has been given to someone else. As far as the milk premium is concerned, I think the most damaged are small producers who can't reach a three-month quota. If someone is damaged, they are farmers who have one or two cows, the PKB is not. What is not said here, and is constantly avoiding, is that Gilas' management, Đilasov and Miskovic's management, ruined the "PKB", that everything they bought, seems to me, and parts of the bay systems were bought from "Delta". ‘PKB’ is set up. Here they will not say that the construction of a barn cost more than building a building in Belgrade, per square, that the construction was run by a "Turbo gas" from Kikinda, which never dealt with construction, that a barn was paid sevenm euros and that internal infrastructure, so the pipes, etc., the muzzle, did not predict that the cow had horns. Believe it or not, when Gilas invested in a barn, which cost more than a business space in Belgrade, per square metre, which was carried by a company from Kickinda, who had one employee and had no construction license when she got the jobs, at the time the cows were cut down by horns so that they could enter the mud pit in the new barn. They took care of so much, but they did not mind leaving a cumulative loss of 87m euros. The PKB has not gone anywhere, only the owner has changed. "PKB" and land will remain agriculturally where and now it is, the money the PKB received in privatisation used to settle debts. I think this company should give us money in the Republic of Serbia's budget, not that the city of Belgrade and the state of Serbia is giving out money for the company. The milk premium won't even get a new owner, like he didn't even get a previous one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55569	The word has a folk MP, Prof. Dr. Milorad Mijatovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55570	Thank you. Mr. Petrovic, President of the Fiscal Council, members of the Fiscal Council, I am very pleased that we are discussing your report here on the tide. I think it's a very big result and I want to point out in particular, and your work, the work of the Fiscal Council, I've been following since 2012. I follow that very regularly, I read your analysis. I'm doing it for the simple reason that I agree with a lot of things you say, with some things I don't agree with, that's what I'm telling you in public. Unfortunately, that happens, what I thought was right, time shows that you were right. That's why I still appreciate what you're saying. Whether we agree on everything, I don't know, but if we can discuss it civilly, it shows today, no matter what there are differences in some things, but we still talk, exchange arguments and respect each other, which is the goal of every democratic debate. What's most important, and the result, I must say, is that the state of Serbia has very high results in financial consolidation. That's what you confirm, that's confirmed by the IMF, that's confirmed by the World Bank and the EU report. So the job that's done really deserves full attention. He looks at himself in a multitude of facts. It's seen in the fact that we've got the financials. We haven't had them yet. I have to remember 2012, 2013, budgets and budget debates, that's when something often happened to pop up, some dubiosis, some earlier loans who knew when they were taken. We simply didn't have predictable behavior in the budget. That's what we used to say, always pops up some skeletons from the closet. Now it's gone. The budget is clear, transparent, predictable, based on conservative methods. You know exactly what incomes are, what expenses are. The result of that fact is that we have a surplus. Sometimes I'm not happy that we have a surplus. I would like to invest a lot more in infrastructure or something else, so let it be that deficit of 0.5% which for me in 2012, 2013 was a mental noun. I never thought we'd get to that when we had a 6% deficit, 7% of GDP. So the results that have been achieved are really very high. The price is paid pretty high. Of course, there's a lot of these measures where you've been proposing these measures, and we all see the results. What's most important right now is that we don't really have a budget under the line anymore. We know exactly what we're up against. Here, for a few years we haven't been making rebalancing, nothing surprises us. We have predictable behavior, sustainable behavior, and that's what's very important right now. The budget surplus has been going on for three years. That's good. Public debt's dropping, long ferry's going down. He's currently at 51% of GDP. It will continue to fall, not by some mathematical methods or some redistribution, but by really falling. We are able because of the extra funds that we have some loans, which have been taken in the earlier period with high interest rates, we pay and replace with significantly cheaper loans, because now we have a very favourable situation on the financial market and the state can take loans on favourable terms. You know, we have 51%, and it was over 70 and something, the Mastricht conditions are 60%. Our legal provision is 45% of GDP. I personally believe, and I hope that we can discuss this too, that maybe we can change that legal provision, stick to Mastricht. That would be for the country of our strength, quite convenient at this point, but we can talk about it the way we've talked so far. Two of my topics that are always popular and that I always mention when I talk about the budget are pensions and salaries. I'll start with my pension. In 2018 I supported your position to abolish the Pensions Act, in 2019 we insisted, one MP and I, to introduce an indexation of pensions. You know, there was no understanding back then until the IMF said we had to do it. That's what we're gonna do. It's good. Whether it's going to be a Swiss formula or something else remains to be recalculated. It's good to know that we've reduced pension expenditures to a bearable 11% of GDP and pensioners that we say have suffered most of the burden, and they have, they have to feel. They felt the increases they had this year. I guess there'll be an increase at the end of this year. For this space there is and we must return to these people what they sacrificed at some point for what they did. I'm also unhappy that we don't have paid classes. They were due to come in 2019, so it was expanded for 2020, and now it's prolonged for mid-2020. I couldn't possibly agree with you until 2021, because you have to have the resources to do it in the budget, and the rebalancing of half the year is pretty hard, you know, because we have to have clear and predictable behavior in the budget. We can't change something every minute, because when you make a budget at the beginning of the year, you have rules of conduct for a whole year. I'm up for pay grade. You know, the salary range in Serbia is 17.5. I stand for 1:12. Someone will say yes, you're a member of the Social Democratic Party, and I am, but I'm not a regular. I am to reward work, real work, knowledge, and in our state administration, if we want to move forward, we must have the highest quality personnel, because the highest quality personnel from our state administration are taken by private and large foreign companies, which are many in Serbia. So let's get out of populism, let's pay for real work, create conditions, and I think in financial consolidation we created conditions and resources so we can have paid classes. My specific question is to the competent ministry – why is this prolonged, to hear what is the explanation? I don't know the explanation, so that's why I can be critical of it, but I'd like to hear what that is about why and why we won't have payment classes on January 1, 2020, and that's what we promised the IMF, and that's what we're asked of. A third question I always say, which is public investment. We've already had 220 billion in the 2019 budget somewhere. A few years ago, we only had 120 billion. Evidence of what it means to have results in financial consolidation that you can raise more funds for public investment. I absolutely support that it stands out for infrastructure, in a infrastructure that will later produce certain results. I am proud of the fact that Corridor 10 is over, that we will have very soon completed Corridor 11 to Cačka, that the Belgrade-Budapest railing is beginning to be built. The same thing I stood for in the 2019 budget is investment in environmental protection. I remind you, the objectives of sustainable development or the 2030 Agenda that we are constantly talking about in this House require much to be invested in this area. Perhaps there is room for our GDP to grow faster than 3.5%, to get to those potential 5% and even more, because Serbia to move forward, to get to greater GDP, we need to have a higher rate of growth, look for ways to get to them. That's where I see the chance, and I'm going to insist on the 2020 budget more resources to protect the environment, and also something less said here, and that's the green economy. In Europe, you have a lot of investment in the green economy, in sustainable energy, in sustainable buildings, in energy conservation. We simply neglected it, so we have much more consumption than many more developed countries have than Serbia. As much as we say we have high employment rates, that rate, whether someone measured it one way or another, is at 11.3%, by any method, but in order to have further GDP growth, we need to have further employment growth, in the private sector, and do what we can. What was also talked about were domestic investments. It is also true that we need to look in the country for a way to stimulate small and medium-sized enterprises, to stimulate the start-up of application programmes, to do everything we can to make GDP grow. Employment growth also means GDP growth. The Social Democratic Party, as a left-wing party, I stress, will insist on those parts. Of course, when someone says left orientations, everyone thinks they're fighting more for some social programs. No, we're fighting for new jobs, new technologies, we're fighting for new employment, we're fighting for decent wages, so people can live and, of course, that people stay here in our country, to live in a way that suits a modern European Serbia that we stand for. Last year we were talking, we didn't get any bigger results, and that's how to reduce the tax burden on wages. There's room. All the savings, you know, when you create something, that smart distribution you can get better results. Maybe it's space. Right now, we're going to be created, because we're going to respect the procedures in making a new budget, we're going to have all the parameters in early October, or we're going to have a budget, I'm sure, in November, in early November, and we're going to have the space and time to talk, let's see that extra funding we have, whether it's going to be more than 220 billion, I don't know how smart it will be, how smart it will be to get Serbia to feel this take-off that is necessary, not in the next year, but in the next five, six years. That's what we're talking about. Your knowledge, our political skills, our experience, and the desire to change Serbia and move forward, must yield results. Of course, as a Social Democratic Party, we'll accept your report, we'll support your work, sometimes we'll get along, sometimes we won't, but the result has to be better, more modern Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55571	Thank you, Professor Mijatovic. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go, colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55572	I thank the chairman. Dear Professor Petrovic, with fellow citizens of Serbia, the honourable MPs, at the very beginning of the address when it comes to this topic of the session agenda, which is your report, as well as our authorised representative, the representative of the SPS parliamentary group, I must reiterate that we will support your report in the voting day, because it is comprehensively, established in fact, contains information that we can discuss, some we will agree on, in some we will not, but it is good to clarify the conclusion that your work, as well as our further assessments on some future reports. What I want to draw attention to is the following - we are fully in agreement with your assessment, that there is still progress when it comes to financial consolidation, through maintaining financial discipline, which I believe may need to be tightened in certain segments, and on the other hand, that fact confirms something that cannot be doubted, and that is an indication that inflation remains under control, or that we do not have it. What I want to hear from you on behalf of us, from the SPS parliamentary group, is a little clarification in your report when you refer to projects relating to infrastructure and environmental protection. It is an accurate assessment that projects are not designed for larger investments, but I am obliged to draw attention to some facts that cannot be doubted. First of all, let's start with something that is absolutely true, which is that the ecology is one of the most important segments of life and that today's ecology is given a lot more attention than in an earlier period, especially in a period of time until 2012, when almost ecology is completely marginalized, which is why we have come into some situations where, unfortunately, we are. Also, the fact that we need to be aware is that Serbia should invest, no less than 15 billion euros, in environmental protection infrastructure. If you take into account that this is one significant amount on the one hand, on the other hand, the financial opportunity and budgetary opportunities of the Republic of Serbia is obviously that there is one particular discrepancy or dissension, as such funds are allocated in a short period of time to improve environmental infrastructure indeed is not quite the same, if we are to be in a position to express ourselves. However, what needs to be pointed out should be pointed out that despite this fact that there is a certain disproportionateness, between budgetary opportunities and the need for environmental protection to be done so far, and therefore I ask you, Mr Petrovic, to highlight in the future report what you had the opportunity to assess as an indicator of what this was done on the basis of which it should be designed or projected in the future. What's done? Well, it's done enough. Let's start with the fact that just to protect the environment, a struggle has been launched by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Resolute Ministry, I mean the Ministry of Environment Protection, the fight against drought desertification. Given that our country is an incomparable resource to which we have to commit, to prevent the degradation of the country, to prevent everything that affects our country's collapse, then one of the moves, one of the decisions of the Ministry of Environmental Protection, was more than the need and gave initial results, and that's forestaging land. Let me remind you that a number of local self-governments and cities have applied in the area of the forest competition and that there is already a lot of work to be done in this direction. The construction of a waste management system no doubt represents one shift in terms of how to organise environmental protection in the best possible way. Of course, this should also be followed by appropriate legislation, so there is also an idea in this direction and a draft Climate Change Act already done. Why am I saying this? I'm talking about not making an impression on Serbian citizens if nothing was literally done. That's not true. The point is to improve the citizens' over-the-counter awareness that environmental protection is number one. On the other hand, to make such a compromise between investment investments on the one hand, which, unfortunately, are collapsing that so-called. Biological balance on the other hand – conservation of the environment. There's a huge gap because it's the growth of technology, the growth of industry, unfortunately affecting everything that's important to us that we can live healthy, so that we can live as the future expects a normal living world and a man in this living world. What we can also fully agree on is that the decisions of the Government of the Republic of Serbia are at a time when a decision on preventing or limiting employment is made, which was first legally regulated by the Law on the Budgetary System and then by the adoption of a Regulation on the restriction of employment, which is in line with the provisions of the Budgetary System Act, that at that time has given major effects, positive effects. However, as time went by, it is obvious that these effects are shrinking and it is obvious that the Employment Restriction Regulation is now becoming more or less counterproductive, given that it is somewhat paralysing the work of local self-government. I'll point only to a few facts. We have gaps in relation to legislation on the one hand, on the other hand, insufficient functioning of local self-government, i.e. with incomplete capacity. In particular, the provisions of the Sport Act prescribe an obligation, a congenital norm, an imperative norm, that any local self-government must have an inspector of sport or a sports inspector. I will remind you, very few local self-government in the Republic of Serbia has a sports inspector. This generates or leads to one consequence that is not harmless at all, which is that non-identification and non-sanctional errors and errors, and even a conscious violation of the law by various sports organisations, which again creates new problems, corruption and everything else. Furthermore, there is a similar situation with insufficient inspectors in the field of education, in the field of ecology, etc. The government recognized this, and thanks to this very recognition by the government of the Republic of Serbia, a relief has already been announced in terms of either abolishing or repealing the Regulation on restricting employment or finding the possibility that these very problems, which I have pointed out, will be resolved so that local self-government can function with full capacity. I hope that in the course of 2020, we will be able to solve these problems, which are not small at all, successfully. What I noticed through the analysis or reading of your report is something I have to agree with, which is the need to introduce payment classes. I really wouldn't repeat what my predecessors are, or colleagues from the point of view of the profession, because I'm a lawyer, I'm not an economist, I pointed out in a completely factual-founded way and I'm going to support it. And in this direction, I will again point to a positive trend when it comes to the intention of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to address this problem legally as well. You will also have support from the SPS parliamentary group when you make recommendations on each other's segment, and this segment is related to the PIO. There are indeed recommendations absolutely established. I think they're extremely well-intentioned. What I must point out is that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has also taken certain activities in this direction that lead to changes or hints of amendments to the legislation, so that it is already working, that working groups are working on draft laws relating to amendments and additions to the Pension Insurance Act. I would ask you to consider ideas that relate to an increase in the age base for the exercise of pension rights or retirement rights, because we already have several idea solutions here starting from a 65 to 67-year-old increase that, which is already tactically somewhere and present in the relevant segments of society, but even up to 70-year-old lives, should be considered more dimensionally and from that so-called biological aspect, and on the other hand, the need for continued financial consolidation that has undoubtedly begun. In the end, I want to say hello again and support everything you've stated. I'm not going to point out something that would take a lot of time, because it would really take a long time to get into certain polemics when it comes to certain parts of your report. I would only ask that, as you have done so far, to continue such a trend, that with much less criticism that enters the day-to-day political upgrades, more professionally observes the whole situation, because it has really not been done so far, that you do not get me wrong and that we continue to contribute together exactly what is our common goal, which is economically stronger, economically stronger and healthier Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55573	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. He's got a word for it, Professor. Paul Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55574	I must welcome the presentation of my colleagues, Jovanovic, in particular in the field of human protection, and I am pleased to see it as one very important thing and related to MP Mijatovic, who also pointed out that this new budget space that will certainly appear for the surplus for 2020, that a significant part of this is being separated for the protection of the environment. Rows of size, we've seen already for this year in that budget space, for this year some 120m euros could go, it hasn't gone nearly anything, but now for 2020 so much can be collected, this figure can't be discouraged, what you say 15 billion euros, that includes both public enterprises and the private sector. What would budget is about eight to nine billion euros, which would be about one 500m euros a year when we reach that level, when the ministry and the government are ready to absorb these funds with their projects and start investing them. Now is the first big step. There are some projects that are ready to start making money right away, and a good, almost half of the money is necessary to create project documentation that will then allow a year later for this... So I would really like to welcome and express my agreement with MPs Mijatovic, Jovanovic and others who have recognised, in my opinion, a very important problem of environmental protection, under (a) and under (b) that you are taking care of this when this budget is adopted. In the next, of course, we will go out with recommendations, possible means in coordination with the corresponding ministry.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55575	Thank you, Professor. Neđa Jovanovic has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55576	Thank you. So just a little bit more clarification, some details. I merely suggested well-intentioned and suggested that the future reports indicate these indicators, because without these indicators, you do not have a comprehensive report. There's only one indication that the government tried to do something and didn't do anything, or not enough. And on the other hand, the actual state isn't like that. So the actual state of affairs indicates that some shift has been made after all. So a well-intentioned suggestion is just to additionally introduce the relevant elements, that the government through the resolution ministries makes an effort to improve the situation. I will briefly point to a few facts that are known to the public or should be known to the public. In particular, the environment minister was at a meeting of the Association of Corporate Directors of Serbia in 2019, I am now talking about the private sector, the corporate directors of Serbia, had an exhibition on "Investment in Ecology". So, through the government of the Republic of Serbia, it already seems an effort to acquire the private sector, including the environmental protection system, to make an effort to bring the discrepancy I was talking about between the budgetary situation on the one hand and the need for environmentalism on the other hand, somewhat balanced. I'll remind you of another fact. The construction of a mini hydrocenter on the Old Mountain also had a major public echo in the sense that citizens appear as protectors or environmentalists. The government has sided with these same citizens through the resolution ministry and in some ways there is already a balance between the need for these hydrodes to exist and may threaten the environment or to find another way to protect water flows where these locations should exist. These are the reasons why we insist on finding elements in the reports that point to efforts that lead to our common goal, and I said what our common goal is, healthy, stronger, more prosperous Serbia in the interests of Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55577	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. The word has a folk MP, Jahja Fehratovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55578	Thank you. The whole debate today leads to one conclusion that we are living in time because of the bad policies and the bad regimes that have left us with this state and the desire to fix it all. Of course, the consequences concern both this fiscal policy and how important the conclusions are, and how important both the recommendations and the reports are, but they are understandable and certain different views of the MPs on the drive that the Fiscal Council wants to present as a very important aspect of the further development of our country and society. However, this divide, and the consequences and causes are much more seen in the environments that are not central, which are not Belgrade and still living today, the legacy of these bad decisions, the regimes and the policies that have reversed us, have ruined the country's absolute economy. This can be said from the point of view of the environment I come from, because there are many times mentioned privatisation here today, and literally in the cities and municipalities of Novi Pazar, Tutin, Sjenica and all of these privatisations are not done properly and are literally TK "Raška" which is one serious giant and let's say Pic Peshter when it comes to agricultural well-being and everyone else, FAP etc. All other major economic operators have been destroyed. This has led to the consequences of what we are suffering today. The consequences are easier and better treated in Belgrade and other developed environments, because we have investments, especially by the sides, etc. However, in these areas where we still have no serious foreign investors coming to this state that even domestic producers, investors are in an unspeakable position and that is what has also been implemented today. that none of the domestic businessmen has the status or position of subsidies and others as foreign investors have and is sufficiently humiliating their economic power or economic business ambience to give up minorities and to lead to a further collapse of those environments. It is also very important to mention the question all day long, i.e. A ban on employment, because if you take it into those smaller environments where we're still in the aftermath of all these transitions, privatisations, etc. The main source of income from the serious part of the population is public institutions, in particular education, etc. This brings the population into one state, minor slavery, especially if you have in local positions authorities, people who abuse such a situation and who receive, say, workers for certain months, but therefore condition that they simply meet, politically correct to behave, meet other certain requirements by them and bring the whole population into slavery. That is why it is very important to treat these consequences as soon as possible, not only in the central parts of the state, but in all of our territory, because literally this economic collapse that is still sensitive, visible, lasting, leads to further decomposition, to a large number of emigrations of the potentially working population, and even benefits those who abuse mixed environments in a national sense, such as my mid-area of Sandzak territory, to talk about the unequal relationship of the state to all parts of the territory and to all citizens. That is why these tips are very important, but it should and indeed understand the situation that is simply not simple, nor easy, and that all of these are the consequences of those bad policies and worse regimes, especially with us, although I was criticised yesterday today, so I mentioned Mr. Ugljanin, who also destroyed the most responsible for these privatisations from the position of local authorities, the Sanjak economy, along with the regime of Vojislav Kostunica, and then Boris Tadic. We, unfortunately, are still prisoners of such policies and that is what we really need to treat. The efforts of this government and this system are going in this direction, and we hope that new and serious promising projects will be able to heal everything, especially when it comes to highways, especially when it comes to the whole network of road infrastructure that brings one new hope to the population of those parts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55579	Thanks, buddy. The word is "Verica Radet." Here you are, colleague Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55580	I see something that the MPs of the government are angry when we remind them that Fabrizio has put them in order and how, now, we have the agenda of what we have been up for since the first day of this new calling. That's why we remind you, because they really have reasons to be uncomfortable with them, because it's an awkward situation for the SRS MPs to tell you for three and a half years that you can't act like a force, that you have to respect the opposition, that you had to bring in a new Rules of Procedure first, that you have to take care of parliamentary democracy and that MPs have to have enough time and to get to know the proposals so that they can discuss them. Of course, we didn't complain. We were successful, no matter how long it's been discussed here, we've been able to spend our time smart and argumentative. We never gave up the discussion, even when 70 different proposals were discussed within one point, we didn't fear those amendments of theirs, and that's where we mated, their amendments ended with the Bravo Government, ours with the U.S. Government. So, we don't have that kind of problem that as MPs we can't handle in every situation, but we need for the public's sake to say that we are finally, here, working on the third day normally, we have one item on the agenda and one item on the agenda is being discussed, so when this is over, then we will move on to another session scheduled within a reasonable period, or in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, etc. We must remind this so that the citizens of Serbia know that we have been fighting for the right democratic way and for parliamentary democracy since the first day since we are in this Parliament, in this assembly, and before, of course. Now, when it comes to this report we're discussing today, it's here, we've really looked at it carefully, we've read it, we've talked about it, there are interesting things here. I'm just going to ask you how do you, as someone who deals with fiscal policy, how did you not mind this part of the budget, here's the particular part that concerns the fiscal council, that you, within this budget, have received certain funds for employees' rewards, for permanent expenses, for travel expenses, and then services under contract, current repairs and maintenance and machinery and equipment? Every time we talk about the budget, we question this every time, not when it comes to fiscal advice, but at all, because these are items that we can manipulate and we don't know anything about afterwards. Everything you wrote here and what you said today, that is, the good part of it is something that we essentially have no objection to. You saw yourself resented by the representatives of the government, the MPs of the government because you dared to say something that they were trying to show in some other way, to look through pink glasses. We think that your role is that you, as a man of the profession, bring out your observations here and anywhere else. You know, you're not isolated if you're fiscal advice not to say anything. You should also hold press conferences, you should issue statements, you should get to know the public, warn the authorities through public communication about what you like such a Council notices and notices. Of course, argumentably, of course not to say something bad for the government, but to support someone else, not that. You have to act like an independent organ. You know, when you have what you've seen today through this debate, then it's actually shown how completely absurd the existence of your Council is. So as long as you speak as the authorities like you, you're good. As soon as you say something that they don't want to hear, they're wooding and stones at you. What happened from July 2017 until today? Why do I mention that July 2017? Because in July, remember, in 2017, Pavle Petrovic was a candidate for Alexander Vukic for the President of the Fiscal Council. Right? That's right. I don't know what happened now, so you're no good to his MPs anymore. As for us from the SRS, I have to say, that's what my other colleagues will say, we've often commented, we've been following your work, of course, it's our job, we've often commented that when we issue a statement, your statement appears, the same day most often. So no one's copying from anyone, minors to details the same. When it comes to, I don't know, coordinating pensions you are, I just didn't like the way you said it earlier, I wrote it down -- I have to admit the radicals were the first to insist. You don't have to admit, you didn't say it well, you should have noticed. But, not now, that's what the radicals said, as if it were someone who knew nothing. As you can see, we're very serious, we know, we learn, we learn, we come here to talk and talk with each other. I'm just asking you to take a little bit of communication into account. What do we think, of course, is a ban on employment we also had objections like you had objections, discretionary retirement, so we stepped down here talking to a minister as much as it shouldn't happen, to the MPs not to adopt it, but it happened. You've also made an objection to that. But again, we as a minority, as an opposition, cannot reach out to the MPs of the majority, but you, as some advisory body, were far from being able to influence either the government or the minister. But you know what I noticed? You said everything here - and it was a short budget deadline, that no budget calendar was respected. You said you hoped he wouldn't. We'll see. So, we got a promise from someone who's not in charge of the budget and delivering the budget to the National Assembly, whether he'll be obedient, we'll see, God forbid, we'd like the budget to be a month ahead of us so that we can analyze it nicely, and then come out with certain remarks and amendments and comments and praises, maybe, if there's room for praise, but just to be prepared, that we have time to prepare ourselves. You know, we've been told a lot by our colleagues in power, when we say that you have 40 points within one item of the agenda, then someone calls in smart and says, "Who's a serious MP, he can read all this in two days." Of course, we did, but they're not democratic principles. And what we noticed was that you didn't make a remark today, or maybe I overheard it, you didn't mention the final budget bill. That's the problem, Mr. Petrovic, which is one of the most serious, if not the most serious problem within... You said so, didn't you? Here, I didn't hear it, I heard it, so that's the most serious problem. As long as we can't discuss it, and until we can have an insight into the final budget account, we can't believe anything about what they're telling us about how much the budget is spent, what the deficit is, what the surplus is, whether it's spent purposefully, non-purpose, how much appraisal it's left on, how much it's transferred from, we can't believe the word. Then someone here said, in fact, the minister said that we could look at the final account on the website of the State Auditing Institution. It's okay, we're looking at sites of various institutions, but I don't want to get to know the final account on that site, but here as MPs. My colleagues will move on, it's short notice, as you can see, but here were the principle remarks on this report and your work in general.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55581	Thank you. Here you go, Professor Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55582	Actually, two related things end account and radicals. In fact, for the first time, I wanted to admit it, that it wasn't ours, but we're from Mr. Krasic, on the Finance Committee, it was a few years of insistence in the final account, then we took it over, and now we insist on it, you're right, and we think it's an extremely important thing. When I said that, I thought more in the sense that we wouldn't adopt something Mr. Krasic said first. Secondly, it was a little easier with that final bill while there was a rebalancing. The moment the rebalancing of November, December, you seemed to have had the final bill for that year, you had details of what was being spent. Since luck stopped with the rebalancing, the other side of it is, then you need a final bill so you can track it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55583	Thank you, Professor Petrovic. The right to replica has Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55584	Since Alexander Vukic and the parliamentary majority, above all SNS, are mentioned, I believe on the subject of our relationship with the Fiscal Council, or their criticisms in 2017, before or after. That, ladies and gentlemen, is one indicator of what we are, as we would say, today is a very popular, difficult dictatorship and what a dictatorial regime we are. That, of course, doesn't say Mrs. Radeta, but you know who says that a lot. We reacted to what we disagreed with from the evaluation of the Fiscal Council both that year and after that year, but it did not prevent us from voting for this current composition or assembly, as you wish, the Fiscal Council. We're so big and scary dictators. Otherwise, we're the worst in the world. One, Petricic said the other day that Alexander Vukic Hitler himself, although that same Petricic in the country whose head is Alexander Vukic, can advertise what he is drawing through the national radio and sell it over state-run TV, RTS, and there are no problems there, but Vukic is a dictator. And it's not just Wolfie. Here, today we are also for those and such Nazis and Hitler. In particular, Aleksandar Martinovic is for this, I think, journalist "Blica" Pivalina Hitler and we are the worst in the world. But it's so hard that our dictatorship here can talk about us and write anything that anyone wills, and we and those we disagree with have no problem saying -- we disagree on that and we face arguments and we do it again. Pensions can't be transferred to us, because we absolutely have nothing to be ashamed of. We have completed this process so that pensions are bigger than at the beginning of that process, bigger, no less, and there is absolutely nothing controversial. If the question of that formula we talked about last year, so you heard everyone, there's going to be a formula, there's going to be a solution, so if it's going to be incorporated into the law like some mathematical model is being written down. But we're proud of the fact that they're bigger pensions than in the days of those who, even then and these days, talked about us being Adolf Hitler and whatnot. As for the right of the Fiscal Council to speak in the media, of course it should, and that is the real Fiscal Council and benefits. Listen to this, January 2019, member of the Fiscal Council: "Budget was in a good situation last year, he has every reason to be good this year. There's no reason to worry about public finances crises like we did five years ago and not only are we on a good path, we've gone over the good part of it moving towards recovery, so they're without the basics of public debt crises, like those in Greece or Argentina. Serbia is a stable country, in the sense that citizens should no longer fear for the fall of living standards." So, when we disagree, we don't have a problem hearing this, and with this stuff that doesn't turn out to be with the Fiscal Council just disagree, we agree absolutely. Among other things, this is seen by Serbian citizens and well appreciates the efforts and results behind this or that are seen through this, just as they well assessed these Pivljninas and similar to them every time we asked people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55585	Thank you, Dr. Orlic. The Right to Replica has the Faith of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55586	For both the chairman and the colleague, one remark. When I say parliamentary majority, I don't know why someone from the SNS always comes forward and why you give them the word. I was just thinking about Nedja Jovanovic when I said parliamentary majority. Don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55587	I'd take it, but I can't.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55588	This time I didn't mean you, Ned, when I tell you. I mentioned the wolf, I just said that he suggested Mr Petrovic at the head of the Fiscal Council two years ago, in the day so to speak. So nothing negative is the basis for replication. We don't mind replicas, because if he didn't get a replica, I wouldn't get a chance to answer it now either. It's not a dispute, but it has to be a little bit more subtle, you know. If I had responded to such a general remark, you wouldn't have given it to me. Right? That's right. As for this transfer, what Petricic publishes, what this newspaper publishes, which has little more readers than sides, etc. And these TVs, we're not even spared by them, you know. Like, they insult us every day by calling you dressed radicals. There are many of you who have been radicals, but you and I have nothing to do with anything but some of them long ago. So, don't think that in any way we support that way that they also refer to Serbian radicals and our president, of course, to you and your president. On the one hand, we don't blame them, so let them write what anyone wants, read what anyone wants, that's the thing of those who buy newspapers, those who watch television, etc. And they shouldn't be, at least they're not our special obsession. But, you see, the self-recognition that we haven't talked in vain so much that there must be a particular formula for pensions, that it can't be the best minister on the globe and beyond, it can't be left to the minister how and when and how much he'll increase pensions. You have now said well – there, there will be a formula, if necessary. No, there's going to be a formula right, but she should have done it by then and without it, she can't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55589	Thank you, colleague Radeta. Right on line, Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55590	Once again, can you or can't, it's shown when you draw a line, right? How does the question of pensions look now when that line subsides? That's your answer whether he can or can't. I said before, it stands better than it was at the beginning of the process. Retirement is bigger than it was at the beginning of the process. It's proof that he can, and that it would be good for certain things to be expressed in an explicit formula, if such is found to be optimal, no one has anything against it. But what's the effect and proof that you can think for yourself. The other thing, more importantly, I've come to explain what our relationship is and I say when we disagree, we make it plain. The estimates of not being a good labour poll and its indicators, we said we disagreed and explained why. On the other hand, when we get a score from the Fiscal Council, some of them I read to you a little while ago, but here's more, that's also their words, we have a growth in employment and an unemployment rate of 11% in 2019 could be 10%. That's what they say and we agree. So we have no problem saying when we agree on something. We don't have a problem with everyone saying their views freely, and so do you, under these Gilas obscenities media, whether it's about diaries, Sundays, TVs that he owns, which is said to every wide field until they deal with things that aren't good for the people and for the state. It's not good things that, let's say, these days we have a few examples, anyone can testify, not if they're going to insult someone personally, but whether they're calling out something that's an open accident for society. The one who says, well, it's right to break into RTS if you wear long pipes, it's a mistake and something like that absolutely no one in this country needs. Or, according to that newspaper, the same man who, I read today, admitted that they filled their pockets, secured themselves fairies, foreign bank accounts, setting up on those boards of directors all kinds of international organizations. The same one says in the same Gilas media, says on the topic of these revolutions of Bakic's and long pipes, "We are a nation born in blood, not in plush and nothing in us has worked, so neither will the revolution." So a man suggests blood and a bloody revolution should be something this society should be dealing with. And for these things we react and say – no, nobody needs it absolutely. The least of the problems is whether you're going to insult one of us, we're used to these things, and we're counting on them. By dealing with politics, we've come to terms with these things, but that you want evil and misfortune, and when I say that to them, I mean people who say these things and say, Gilas, Jeremic, Obradovice, Bakic, it's absolutely unacceptable. Once again, the people won't. Ask the people every time. Every time every year, the answer – we will not make it more convincing.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55591	Thank you, colleague Orlic. Right on the replica of my colleague, Radeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55592	Come on, I'll start with this at the end. I didn't mean, of course, what you're talking about when I was talking about these newspapers about these media, I was thinking about those cartoons that were mentioned in the first part of the debate, but we have never had a problem, nor did we have, openly, to say that these are foreign agents, that they work exclusively against the state, and that's not a secret, if someone's saying it openly, then that's what we Serbian radicals say. What you're talking about, breaking into RTS, threatening long pipes, these are crimes, and don't complain about us or anyone here, ask the D.A.'s office why he's not responding, find out in some corner of Zagu Dolovac, that woman's been hiding somewhere, for years no one's seen her alive. Find her, get her out of there and say, 'allo woman, get into RTS, you don't react, threaten with long tubes revolution, you don't react. So don't do this to us. We told her about her when it was time. When it comes to pensions, don't change the thesis, it's not about that, and nobody said anything about pensions. Whether pensions are smaller or bigger, here they are, the largest in the world, but I can't even afford the world's largest pensions to be paid off without a legal basis. You know, earning people who work on black is bigger than the ones who are employed and who are registered. So shall we say, hey, these have bigger salaries, let them, let them work on black? We're talking about legality and we're talking about it, we're just repeating what we talked about when the law was on the agenda, when we explained that there had to be a formula and a time to calculate pensions, an increase, a reduction, whatever, but it had to be done on the basis of the law. Then don't hide that illegality behind it – it's now the biggest pensions. I'm telling you, I can be twice as big, but they have to be in accordance with the law. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55593	Thank you, colleague Radeta. Right on line, Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55594	Two notes, the first one on pensions is not negligible, but the second one might be more important. Then when we talked about pensions here, I remember that debate well, we asked, give a suggestion, need a formula, let it be said immediately, here, now in this session that it should read, which is an optimal solution. We didn't get an answer. We then reacted not to those models that were applied by the former regime and reminded them when they failed. We asked them, and others, if there is a third or fourth solution, let us know what it is. That's when we didn't get the answer. It is by law all done and I say, we've always been the most motivated by the result. The fact that underneath the line shows up when it subsides, and that's why we say, we're not unsatisfactory, on the contrary, it's our desire to make these pensions even bigger with this or that formula or today without the formula, just let them be bigger and let them go in plus. The other thing more important, that RTS also remembers well, then the organisers, so Đilas, and Jeremic, and Obradovic hid behind the minors, if I remember correctly. They put kids through doors, destroy inventory, wander the halls, and then pretend to have nothing to do with these people, or those young men. They did it in front of the presidency the day after that. So they forced them to freeze their car through the cordons, to shoot cops, there's even a man, a young man, who's already pulled a knife on a cop. Well, so many police shooting scenes with bottles. So they didn't care about those kids at all, they didn't care what happened to them. I'm saying this and I said that maybe it's more important because of something that's going on in Belgrade today. Today, these same people are trying to abuse their children again, and that's what those children should hear, but so are their parents. So, among the so-called Osmak protests are Trifunović Sergei, and that of Jeremic's Zemun operative, who, along with Bastac, is chasing construction sites and that of Anasonović, seems to me, and others so-called. Students who appear to have been members of left Serbia by yesterday, so now they've all collectively moved to Gilas' party. So, these people train the messages that are being heard there. These people even, imagine, shared their badges with their tags and gave them a megaphone showing that it was their megaphone, or their markings. It's abuse. Once again, how many of those people who are trying to abuse these children again care, so the answer we've already looked at with their own eyes, not just at the presidency, not just at RTS, have shown how much they care about the parents of those children when hundreds of thousands of people have thrown them out on the street. This should be borne in mind, not only when they choose a position on a particular subject but also when they choose society, I think of those children and their parents, all of those citizens of Serbia who may not yet understand what is behind this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55595	Thank you, colleague Orlic. It's not a replica, The Witch of Radeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55596	Well, if you had arrested Bosko Obradović and Gilas at the time, and there was a basis, if you had done so at the time, you would have had less of a headache and there would certainly be more and more of the abuses like those that are happening today, which happened two days ago, that are going to happen tomorrow and so on. So you're complaining about the wrong address again. And this thing with these tests, I guess you should finally figure out, here, this isn't the first time, it's been a couple of years now that tests leak somewhere and so on. How does that happen? By accident, on purpose, you know. That's what you need to take care of and see well how these tests went public. Do they have anyone in your ranks, etc? Think about it, you guys, just on the way. You're the first to start, so you don't think we're thinking about it. There are no SRS tests in high school, no college tests. Everyone has to give the same chance and that even without the trauma of children, parents, grandparents, aunts, uncles, uncles. The whole of Serbia is in trauma these few days until these tests are complete. But well, you've accepted this way and we'll see how you get out of it. Just as far as pensions and pension and disability insurance laws are concerned, you didn't ask us what our proposal for a pension is. It may be the ones who were sitting here at the time, I can't even remember, and I don't care what you talked about, but the SRS had an amendment, and we proposed by amendment how it should be entered into to coordinate pensions. Let's not go back to that now. That's when we said, here, and now I'm going to repeat that this law of change and supplement will come, so we're going to show that same amendment. If you were thinking about those over there, then nothing.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55597	Thank you, colleague Radeta. Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55598	We thought of their solutions when we said we disagreed with them, of course. The other thing is more important. We're not like you know the D.A.'s office or the court. So where the institutions are asked to respond, the question of whether they always respond, whether they react in the right way and why not always in the right way. We talked here, us and you and the others, who is when these people were chosen and who these people think they belong to or owe something, not everyone understands, not everyone, away from being even about most of it, but a lot of it. As we have repressively reacted to this incursion of RTS and this Bakic, for whom I agree, it is all just not normal and not legal. That's another proof of how terrible a dictatorship we are. It's another proof of how terrible this regime is here where anyone can say absolutely anything that comes to mind, about Alexander Vukic and about the members of his family, and about any government minister, or SNS politician. To publish whatever cartoons they want, and literally they're degutant things in that newspaper, which, on a daily basis, is all kinds of lies to tell on these TVs and nobody, of course, is not missing hair, but nobody notices that it's unusual. Serbia, as far as these matters are concerned, is an absolutely free country. And when these things happen. To tell you the truth, as much as it used to seem, they were trying to insult us from the stained veins, how much they were trying to insult us. Sometimes I get a little smile, I see myself in a cartoon, and I know I'm gonna turn it around tomorrow, I'm gonna show it to them, and I'm gonna tell you, look how scary this dictatorship is, what you're supposed to draw and write, and you're here again, and you're gonna do it again. So these Freedom Houses and various other bearers of strange interest when they talk about Serbia will never be correct and fair. That they're doing it out of some of their own interests and our goals are absolutely clear to us. And what is true once again, the citizens of Serbia know what they look at every day and listen to their ears, after all how free we are, and it cannot be hidden, just like these economic indicators and these results. They know people who didn't have a job, and they got it in the meantime, that's true. As the people whose pension was on this level know, and now it's on this, that it's plus an increase, or that their salary from Djilasovic is fantastic, as far as it was, 330, 340 on average, now 460 and that we're seriously dealing with the team to be 500 euros on average. These are things that people see, just like these pervasive content of theirs in various media. All people see, and you know what, all people understand and show it. That's what I said today. And the results in the election, so the other day, as far as Mayur was fifteen zeros for Alexander Vukic and this policy that we represent, 15 for us and 0 for these Gilas, Bakic, and their daily, weekly newspaper and their propaganda programme and NUNS that got huge loans in millions measured by Dragan Gilas, they also don't need to forget.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55599	Thank you, Dr. Orlic. Grozdan Banac, on what grounds are you answering? Since pensions are mentioned, then I want a replica. I'm sorry, Mrs. Banac, but no one mentioned you. Well, pensions, it's not a P.U.P.S. pension and pension fund. Thank you. I have no basis to give you. How do I have no basis? ) Mrs. Banac, I can give you a replica exclusively in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Article 104. If someone mentions you personally by your name or last name or your boss or deputy head of your parliamentary group, if anyone mentions the president of your party or your party. Thank you very much. The word is Nikola Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55600	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are considering a report on the work of the Fiscal Council for 2018. When you look more closely at this report, there may be some interesting facts that cannot be found elsewhere. The fiscal council is defined as an independent body that only corresponds to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for its work. As far as I can remember, the gentlemen of the Fiscal Council are here for the first time before us MPs, and I am now interested in what prevented you, or the representatives of the Fiscal Council, from meeting before the MPs so far. Otherwise, the Fiscal Council is a body that must be managed in its work by some fiscal principles and their role is, there is more to it, but their role can be reduced to three basic things. The first is to establish a public debt ratio towards GDP, the second is to establish a salary ratio towards GDP and a pension ratio towards GDP. Of course, you've pedanticly given these parameters and what I'm interested in, in this report that you've delivered to us people's MPs here, and what I'm interested in, we see that the amount of salary relative to GDP is about 9%, and the pension ratio relative to that same GDP is about 11%. If we compare this to some of the previous times, we can see and conclude that there really have been some shifts here compared to the time when some others led this country, but we cannot possibly understand that the situation is good. On the contrary, I have a lot that can be resented by you from the Fiscal Council and, of course, by the people who run this country. All this data we have here is based on some statistical research, and we all know that statistical research isn't always the most reliable. Statistics aren't always the most reliable science. She has a saying that defines statistics, she says – "Statistics is the exact sum of incorrect data". So, always this data that we have here, we have to take with the reserve. The idea of introducing order in fiscal areas is, of course, a good idea and we welcome it, we from the SRS welcome it, and welcome what Mr. Pavle Petrovic said here that as far as the final budget account is concerned, where we keep insisting on the future and how to keep an eye on it, because the budget without the final budget account does not mean much, because there is simply no way to determine how money is spent. Otherwise, when it comes to money, there is one saying: “Where the money is, there is always a trap.” We have seen this report also talk about reforming public enterprises with a view to the Serbian Railways, where there have only been certain transformations, I am not going to repeat exactly what happened there. We also saw from this report, which you gave us here, when it comes to the public company "Electropriority of Serbia", that there are certain problems that you have listed here and that we all know, both a common man and an ordinary citizen. So we have an excessive number of employees there, we know that there are losses in transporting and transporting energy, and we know that the salaries in that public enterprise are above those average salaries in other sectors of Serbia. If on the other hand we know that, unfortunately, a large number of Serbian citizens live in quite difficult circumstances and at the border of existence, it is one of the biggest problems our society faces. What is positive and what I want to praise is the fact that slowly regains confidence in Serbia's fiscal system. Indeed, it is a matter of all praise. Trust in the fiscal system is one of the main pillars on which each state's fiscal system rests, because without confidence in the fiscal system, in banks, there would be major turbulence, major problems, which would shake not only the state and the system as ours, but also much stronger, more serious and larger states than we are. For this reason, trust in the financial system is of paramount importance and, fortunately, as we can see, that trust is slowly returning. It's not at the level it's supposed to be at yet, of course, but there are certain shifts. I would also take advantage of Mr. Pavel Petrovic's opportunity here to ask him if he is in charge of your Fiscal Council, are the commissions that certain banks charge for certain transactions? In fact, these days alone, more precisely yesterday, I had the need to pay some symbolic amount, not here with us, but in one of the neighbouring states, namely the former republics of the SFRY and many citizens of the Republic of Serbia have relatives and friends there, etc. and often have the need to pay some amounts based on the desert procedure or simply there are people who have parents in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, and also in Montenegro, where they need to pay them mobile phone bills. Since payment traffic doesn't work, or it doesn't work the way a regular man assumes it should, well, I've had a chance to say for some symbolic amount of about 10-15 euros a bank, I can tell you, and what is it, it asked for a commission of 3,400 dinars. So to pay 10 or 15 euros, the commission is almost 30 euros. It's the Unicredit Bank. Is that in your jurisdiction and is there anything that can be done about it, to make these things rise? Because indeed, a large number of Serbian citizens need to make these monetary transactions with the former SFRJ states and are mostly symbolic amounts, and commissions are extremely large. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55601	Thank you, fellow Saviæ. Dr. Pavle Petrovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55602	It's not in the jurisdiction of the Fiscal Council, but I think it's in the jurisdiction of the National Bank.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55603	Thank you. Here you go, colleague Saviæ.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55604	Can you, as a fiscal council, by your authority, what my colleague Mircic says, be at the People's Bank to bring these things to some reasonable extent? Because it's not logical and it's not normal for you to, say, pay two or three times as much commission as the amount itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55605	Thank you, fellow Saviæ. Here you go, Professor.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55606	We hope he reacts. I think you have more authority as MPs than I do. But besides that, fiscal and monetary must not be mixed.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55607	Thank you. The word is Dr. Mihailo Jokic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55608	I'm gonna say something that nobody's ever said before, so they don't repeat themselves. My theme is gold, dollar, dinar, national currency, and where Serbia is located, where there is a Serbian citizen. I want you, as professionals, to show yourself in writing, how and which way the country, or the country, is moving, behaves as an individual, in order to preserve macroeconomic policy. The first problem I want to point out is, and I'm surprised that no one has found out, we lack the social accounting service. In 2000, they were... To finish the radicals, so I'll do it. (President: Just continue, Dr Jokic, this is parliament, we cannot forbid them to talk to each other. So they destroyed the army, destroyed the police. We've restored the army, we've got a stronger army, we've restored the police, but we haven't received an Egal service service from the SDK that's been monitoring all the financial flows at the state level. That's the problem. It's a control problem. It's a control problem. It may not be in the domain of your powers, but you as professional people should suggest, and I repeat again, in writing that you show yourself to us, to the Assembly, to the Government, that an institution must appear in that form, which will play that role as the Social Accounting Service. Maybe that's where this state audit institution is closest. We listened to it yesterday, but it's all ad hoc. Someone gets shot, somebody doesn't get hit, etc. They're partially approaching these problems. We need an institution to look at the whole. What's this about? I'm once, Professor. Petrovic, he said that the dollar is the greatest evil in the world and that America does not command and terrorise the world with bombs and planes, but with a dollar. Here, Venezuela is the best example. You saw, they blocked all the funds Venezuela had in dollars. This has to be prevented, because since 1971, a dollar has lost its gold base and they're printing a dollar like we've been printing toilet paper. That's what this is about. This has to be prevented. Great lands, Russia, India, China, buy gold. I think Russia is somewhere, I think, 2,112 tons of gold. India has over 600 tons. Is it like a country to ensure their safety, to make the dinar a golden foundation, that we turn around too? Do we need one? You as professional people need to plead in what form we're going to save, to keep our foreign reserves. Well, we won't be doing it safely in dollars. We won't work in euros either, because the euro press is uncontrollable, and the best evidence is that Eurobor, which is minus 0.2%. So he's negative. I'm here to thank our National Bank for preventing foreign banks from charging us with the interest we have on them. You know that in 2018, these foreign banks made 70.4 billion profits, and that goes all in part and through those commissions that their colleague was talking about. It's a commission for a money transaction. It used to belong and should belong to the state of Serbia. That's where Serbia has to protect itself. So I want you as an expert man, or as an expert team, to state in writing what the state of Serbia needs to do now? Which direction should it go, because it seems to me that the euro will experience the fate of the brand, the German stamps. Remember what it was like? There was one, and then there was two one. In order for us not to get into this situation, you can recommend, say, I could say, as a layman, that we save, say, in a Kuwaiti dinar. Now the most stable currency is the Kuwaiti dinar, right, and the Swiss franc. So these are the problems where you should appear as a professional body. You may not be able to make a decision, but you have to show yourself and you have to, because of the citizens of Serbia, because of history, because of the people who are coming, show themselves in writing. The last thing I want to say is, watch out, gross domestic product and gross national product, I think you and I understand each other. Professor, I'm in favour of a gross national product, because I think it rightly shows the standard and power of a country, and the gross domestic product is imposed on us, developing countries. It's imposed by multinational companies. Now let's not get into it, in detail, so there's no discussion of why and how. So, in order not to be a victim, the right time is for you, as a professional body, to let go of this statistic now whether it's 12 or 13 etc., you give us a rapper, you give us an indication of what we are at this point, which is very difficult, how to behave in these trade relations. The euro trade relations cover somewhere with 40%. The U.S. debt market is collapsed. No one will buy their bonds, their records of value. The dollar has to fall. The dollar's going down. The euro is falling. So there's going to be some currency. Where are we? What do we have to do here as a state and what should an individual who lives and has some savings do there, how do we save for an age that is uncertain? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55609	Thank you, Dr. Yokic. Dr. Pavle Petrovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55610	All of what you've been saying, of course, is very important issues of a strategy in which currency to hold foreign exchange reserves, but these are questions for the National Bank. By law, the National Bank takes care of it and forward the request to issue a written report by the National Bank. We don't deal with it, even more, could be said, if we get into it, and it's not our area, to interfere in someone else's area, from fiscal to monetary policy. So, one important question, what are we supposed to keep our reserves in? Two, it's under the law of the National Bank, and you need to ask it for answers to those questions, to the foreign reserve strategy, that's your question. Gross domestic product is a generally accepted measure in the world. So there's no conspiracy behind it. It's a standard measure. Gross national, for others present to say, that's where it's added, that's gross domestic plus what we get from abroad, let's say the signs, and what we pay abroad, let's say interest. So that gross national little better measure how much money we really have, but gross domestically better measure the power of the economy, what we've really produced. So, I think the gross domestic product in that sense is a better measure. (Mihailo Jokic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55611	Yes, and, Dr. Yokic, here you go. Two minutes of replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55612	What you said, strength, but what's ours, which is Serbian, it's better expressed gross national than gross domestic product.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55613	Thank you. The word has Professor Dr. Paul Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55614	Well, if that's what other people are interested in, the difference, so literally, with us, is that what you call ours? So, the gross domestic product doesn't include the strings we get, minus the interest we pay outside. That's the difference between gross domestic and gross national. Now if you think, but the standard measure is gross domestic and I would, if you ask me for a professional opinion, stick to gross domestics, but it doesn't bother to count even gross nationals.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55615	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55616	First, a principled objection to your chairman. You did not give a word to your colleagues in PUPS, or the right to reply. In two minutes, no one's gonna lose anything, and it's a little embarrassing to see that these two minutes make her co-worker not even here anymore. No matter what she wants to say, yet she...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55617	You're in some alliance with a PUPS or a lawyer or something?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55618	No, I'm not a lawyer, but I want to collegiate with you to participate in the work of the Assembly and I want each of my colleagues to have the right to reply, especially representatives of the Joint Pensioners' Party, where they are directly concerned with issues and pension problems. If you think you'll never come to that stage, you're wrong. We'll all be pensioners someday. If we're going to be PUPS members, that's another thing now. But it's just for tolerance, 'cause you're a tolerance here when it comes to time. What I want to ask fiscal advice is this. You, Professor Petrovic, claim here that the budget is structurally balanced. Based on what elements, Professor, can we claim that he is structurally completely balanced? We don't have a final bill, Professor. We don't know how the funds were spent. We don't know where that surplus comes from. You know, as an expert man, you know very well that the surplus is just as problematic as, about, the deficit. The deficit shows that you haven't made a good estimate of your income, and the surplus shows that you've dragged your hand deeper to the citizens than you should, if he's structurally, as you say, balanced. We have to have an answer. It can't just be a fact, here we go from deficits to surplus without knowing the background of it all. Where did that surplus come from? Is this perhaps a source of the fact that the state does not settle its obligations? Does this come from the fact that too much is taken on taxes and on other taxes by the state or is that some other reason? If there's any reason to know what the reason is, but without a final account, we can't discuss anything reliable. That is what unfortunately colleagues from the ruling coalition, so regardless of whether they are a majority or some other party, I cannot understand the insistence of the SRS. We don't do it to point to failures. It's not a failure, it's to know what it is. We don't just have that problem when it comes to the republican level of government. We have local self-government where leaders boast that they have had surpluses in their continuum for seven years. That means we have to look for cause or they don't have enough ideas, they don't have the projects to spend that money or somewhere there's disagreements, disagreements, because, my God, it can't take seven years of surplusing in a local self-government without the state reacting. We have here, you point to the problem of transfer funds, which is a bigger and bigger problem, not only in the part where you point out that besides regular 50% subsidies, while looking at total subsidies, additional transfer funds from the budget reserves are being allocated. We have municipalities here that can't survive. In a structurally balanced budget, you agree, there should be no such disagreements, such problems should not be shown, because it must be taken into account how and how funds from the budget are spent, how funds are channelled from reserves and how local self-governments are managed. Here you are absolutely right, and in continuity you insist that the issue of pension payments and pensions is determined by clear rules, criteria, according to which an increase in pensions will be calculated. It cannot be something that is ad hoc, it must be contained either in GDP growth, or in gross domestic product, or in the real cost of life, or in inflation. Here, we have an example now, the next session of the Assembly is scheduled to increase the amount of toll collection. What are real parameters? The cost of road maintenance has increased. These are real parameters assumed by the government. And when it comes to pensions, where are the real costs, where are the real costs? Secondly, we have not touched, Professor, what is very important, which is the next fact - the role of public enterprises in creating GDP. We have one situation that's just amazing. We have become such a pious nation, that our electricity production depends on whether it's going to be dry or it's going to rain. It's up to us to grow agricultural production on whether, as the one in the sky says, it's going to give us rain and favourable climate conditions so that we can count on GDP. We have to say somewhere a clear view of the Fiscal Council when it comes to pensions, without any dilemma. But it has to be said what causes this situation in the production of electricity, that is, in the electricity industry. We can't be satisfied with what we're saying -- structural change must be made. No, maybe we should change the personnel. Here's the best example, Mine Bor. They removed a director who'd been making minuses for years, and now they're saying it went well, because a foreign investor came. But the exact opposite example is the PKK. Don't, gentlemen, so boast about that move that the PKK has solved the problem. That's where we sold the land. There's no way we'll sell it another time. It's not gonna happen. The land is sold, the host of the last man to sell is the land. It may have been just like this, as the Fiscal Council advises, that structural changes be made in certain enterprises or systems to be executed, and then seen, and we sold land to the PKK and it's over. The story is over. Whether it will be brought to some other purposes, it is in the jurisdiction and authority of the new owner and future local government, or the current maybe government, but the state does not. That's why we need to make it clear what's causing this recurring surplus, and we're putting it as a fact that it's progress, and maybe there's a commitment behind it that the state hasn't settled down, I'm saying maybe. We don't know until we have the final bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55619	Thank you, colleague Mircic. Since you made a point to me at the beginning of your speech and out of respect for colleagues from the PUPS party and MPs and citizens, I owe a real explanation. So, I didn't have any business options, and you know it very well, to give a word to an esteemed PUPS colleague. I, here, believe me, would like to give my word to Professor Boyic, but he didn't sign up, I can't, with all my desire for him to speak today. So, I have to respect the Rules of Procedure and act like I wouldn't, just for changing thesis. I don't know why you did it, but well, your thing. Momo Colaković, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55620	Dear Vice President, the Honorable President of the Council of Associates, I will say very briefly that I am advocating Article 103, Mr. Vice President. A party of united pensioners of Serbia does not have its own representative and has no lawyer. You hurt the Rules of Procedure and you hurt us in the PUPS parliamentary group. Mr. Mircic is not our lawyer, but he's very right. You've broken the Rules of Procedure several times today and you've said it yourself for 23 minutes. You have hurt the Rules of Procedure today by giving people twice as much as the Rules of Procedure predicts for replication, and you have not allowed the honourable member of the Parliament of Banjac to say two minutes something that is very important and important to our population. It is very precise and clear, you were present when he was at the National Assembly of the IMF, on my behalf that what the Fiscal Council has proposed is considered and takes into account the state in which pensioners are located, in particular a million and 100,000. At that session you were present, the IMF accepted this, and in agreement with the government of the Republic of Serbia and particularly Minister Sinish Mali is preparing a proposal on this. There is no longer a dilemma about how and how to further regulate the material and social status of pensioners. He will be legally regulated so as to prepare the Swiss formula, which was present, it is nothing new, until a few years ago. Please, you have to respect 1,715,184 pensioners, you have to respect the legitimate representative of these pensioners, which is the Union of Pensioners of Serbia, which has provided support to the Fiscal Council for Zavreda, which should regulate this issue, which is inflation and that is GDP or average earnings. (President: Thank you. Please, how much did you say when you were out here? (President: Thank you. I don't know what you want right now. ) I propose that the Assembly declare itself in the day of voting on the violation of the Rules of Procedure which you have done.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55621	You have the right to do so, but fellow Colakovic, you know very well that I am right, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, as well as, of course, since you have referred me to the objection, I respect millions and 700,000 pensioners, and my parents are pensioners, but I guess we're all here as representatives and we're dealing with pensioners issues. No one here has the exclusive right to do that. I didn't know, maybe someone did, but I wasn't informed of it in a democratic state and parliamentary democracy. The National Assembly will declare itself in the day of voting on the violation of the Rules of Procedure on my part. Thank you. The right to replica has Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55622	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there are some questions here as if someone's stealing, kidnapping or not knowing what from the state. A surplus can be created by two basics. The first is a better tax charge, and this is the result of a reform of the tax administration's work. You still can't calculate that when you're planning tax revenues, on the one hand. On the other hand, the savings that come into existence can be due to the strict application of so much attacked and so bad the Public Procurement Act, as some here claim. Just to remind some of Tom here that, when the Public Procurement Act entered full application, we bought the same amount of drugs and medical resources in 2015 as in 2014 and 2013 and 2012, but for some 400m euros less because we have a new Public Procurement Act. Now we can talk about whether he's good or bad, but the results that this law has in application speak of him, and everything else can be a desire for political points. I'm sorry, but it's always the result that disproves conspiracy theorists. Here our biggest problem is with the Fiscal Council which, since 2014 or 2015, all of their analyses we've been getting, and at what limits will the public debt be moving and how much we should have reduced pensions and everything else, it's been that most of these estimates have been wrong and that time, the views of the Fiscal Council, on our public finances, has denied time and events.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55623	Professor, just a moment, please. First on the replica of my colleague Milorad Mircic. Here you go. (Milorad Mircic: I give the professor the right to answer. Professor, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55624	First, these savings and the Public Procurement Act are wrongly sized. So that's not at all what this is about. Secondly, our projections were very precise at the time, because they meant that what we asked for, the pension reduction, was planned, would be reduced by 75,000. We said right away – it's impossible, it's not going to happen, it just started at the beginning, and they said – let's do it in the second, third year, and at the end of the 75,000, it's barely 20,000 gone. So your attitudes don't stand. Now let me go back, Mr. Mircic, about what we think under a structurally balanced budget. In fact, what we have without a final account is given by the Ministry of Finance. We have big spending items. So we have total expenditure, let's say, subsidies, expenditure on goods and services, pensions, wages, interest, investment expenditure, and that's why we see the expenditure side. What we don't see and what we're looking for from this final account is how it was spent on the Ministry and on every user, and then it's only possible to verify that this is done. These total figures, I mean, are basically accurate. There'd be a move up or down. It's the same thing on income. We see from the Ministry of Finance's report what VAT revenue is, out of contributions, excise, profit tax, so that we can determine on this basis what is the actual surplus or deficit. When I say that he is structurally balanced, we want to say that this result, the state of the budget, is moving around the balance this year and the previous year. It's a little bit in the plus, actually the result is a little bit always in the plus, the plan is a little down, but it's basically balanced. When we estimate that this is structurally coordinated, it means that it is not achieved by reducing ad hoc expenditure. For example, they are deliberately prone to public investment or something, or they are achieved by taking ad hoc from a lot more funds than public enterprises. Thus, in that sense it can be maintained on the mid-term. It is true that it is not possible to plan precisely that you will always, that very balanced goal. It's really about little mistakes that give a little extra or a little shortfall. In that sense, it's an acceptable thing. What I agree with you, these are two major problems, is Serbia's Elektroprivreda. It is not a problem for the budget, because it does not take the funds out of it, but as a single company, with the reform of the company, everything that this reform means, it should become an effective business that attracts economic growth. That's not what we're suggesting, and we're going to try to give you some additional analysis and give you MPs the basis to react on that basis. The second problem, which was raised at the beginning of this session and yesterday when he was an auditor, is that attention should be restored to local self-government. The total size of the problem isn't so big when you add it up at the state level, but for every local self-government, for some local self-government, it's a huge problem and we see that there would be room for significant improvement. Two years ago, we gave one plan and, as I said again, we are ready to innovate it and re-enact it with common forces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55625	Comrade Mircic, would you like a replica of the presentation of the President of the Fiscal Council? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55626	It's the only thing worth discussing with Professor Petrovic is for a man to learn something. It's not worth it with Arsic. What about Arsic? All those years together, he hasn't made much progress yet. Two rows read and go to sleep. What's the point here when it comes to local self-government? You're right, Professor, when you're looking at it in total, it's not some big problem in terms of alarming, but we have a situation that not a small number of municipalities due to inequitableness, the inability to finance their needs have to be in debt, credited to be in debt, and we can't see now how much the extreme consequences will be. That's what this is about. You have warned here that it is no longer advisable to go with transfer funds to cities, or municipalities that express surpluses and you have set an example of cities, such as Novi Sad, where it is shown, I speak as an example that you have cited, is shown year by year surplus, and you clearly indicate what might be the problem. The problem is the lack of projects, the lack of investment. That's the point and what we insist on here. We insist from the SRS to introduce a mechanism that will be effective and that is yesterday, when the debate was held, and now we insist on it. The Ministry of Finance cannot, conditionally said, stand by, show surplus in one local self-government, and in most other municipalities deficits. It must react and that these funds begin, that the purpose of their use is to transfer to where they are needed. That's the point. There is no point in explaining to a man who has not yet understood and making a budget is a simplified, crafty business and there are clearly established rules and criteria by which the new budget is recalculated. It's inflation that's official and real cost growth and just so much increase, and that's something that's allowed. You can't, Professor, because people think the IMF is something that's uncut. You know that well. The International Monetary Fund has only one function to control the debtor to settle, service his debts and no longer interest him. Whether the hand will drag on the pensioners, whether the employees and not to forget, I apologize, it is very important to say that wage growth, the level of public sector income, is disproportionate to economic income. It's nowhere to be found. (President: I thank you. ) It must be coordinated and you have given it several times in your report.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55627	Thank you, colleague Mircic. Comrade Arsic, would you like a replica of my colleague Mircic's presentation? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55628	Mr. Chairman, I didn't know that the new budget was being created by considering only inflation and cost growth, I guess that's something like that, and maybe the same. I don't really know now. I really don't understand. I guess you should also include GDP growth and then recalculate how much that growth is going to be overrun by other actions, so the investments you have, not to mention. Even when you plan the revenue side of the budget and you increase pensioners and you have to include it in the projection of the revenue side of the budget next year. So those of us who read the two lines and then go to sleep, we know that. Those who don't read at all don't know anything. That's what it looks like, and that's the problem. And local self-government. The same problem is there's an income side, there's a cost-effective side, there's a problem, if what's on the expansive side isn't done. But if the revenue side has a better charge than was planned, that's a problem, but it's not a big deal. That's a bad estimate, because what's the budget essentially? One plan, one estimate of how much money you'll get over the year and where you'd spend that money for certain purposes. It's almost never possible to hit anywhere near the dinar. There's a row of 1.5 to 2% up or down, both on the income and on the bulky side, but it's mostly made sure it's in those desired frames. Otherwise, when the real budget is taken into account only inflation and cost growth, it is quite unserious. It's hard for that country to be led by such experts.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55629	I thank my colleague Arsic. Comrade Mircic, would you like a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55630	Well, I don't want a replica at all. It's not about me discussing with Veroljub Arsic right now. Here we simply want to simplify people's understanding of what's going on. I'm wasting my time explaining to Veroljub Arsic, so I think Professor Petrovic lost all morning to explain it to him. What I'm supposed to do in five minutes is change what a man didn't do in the morning. It's impossible. You know Martin in Zagreb, Martin in Zagreb, it's always like that. This is about the next one, this is about something that's very, very positive, and that's that surplus, and we don't know where that surplus comes from. We don't know where that surplus comes from. We don't know. We don't know what the reason for that surplus is. Based on the fact that the surplus is because it started with the savings, it's just a guess. Maybe it is, maybe it isn't. Based on the perspective, this country's future by being praised by the IMF for all its mouths, by banks giving you credits, by crediting you, by having an old nation – only something grows in other people's hands, nothing else. It seems to Arsic that the best thing to talk to you about is that you understand best. Let go of this. No one disputes your knowledge, but here to explain to the public, you need to explain to those who are receiving pensions that it has to legally, as it is said, to regulate it, not by having someone come to mind, not by having the president of the state issue a warrant to the finance minister what needs to be financed. You can't run that kind of politics, you can't run a state like that. Leave it. That's what we paid for in Smeder. We have iron instead of grapes. Don't say that. Don't take us back. It's in vain, nor do I want to argue with my colleague Arsic, no matter what I personally have a completely different opinion, I appreciate some of his qualities, and I don't appreciate that he took his mandate from the party, so he didn't return it until today, but there's always a chance. We expect him to come back.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55631	I thank my colleague Mircic. Right on line, MP Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55632	He offered it several times in the election. Now, our public debt is also based on estimates of the Fiscal Council and the Ministry of Finance about 50%. We'll also agree with the Fiscal Council that we can pay back that public debt and that we no longer have any debt at all. The budget is such that we can afford that luxury. The problem arises – what about the investments. Anything we could save or earn would go to the repayment of an old debt which, by the way, is very expensive and we couldn't have any capital investment to launch in the Republic of Serbia. As it was very bad, and when you criticised it, you attacked that the Republic of Serbia was in charge of day-to-day coverage of the liquidity of the Republic of Serbia's budget, we were in debt by seven, eight percent at the annual level indexed in euros, dollars, as in when. These evaluations by the IMF are important to us not to cover the daily liquidity of the Republic of Serbia's budget, but to have programme responsibilities for capital investment because we finally agreed that you can't have economic development unless you have travel, rail and any other infrastructure. Choose – whether we want to return only the loans we found, even some in Broz's time, or because of the assessments that the IMF gives us to get cheaper loans, to arrange our country, to open our roads, to reconstruct the railways, to make our development cheaper, and to make Serbia a more competitive place for investment, or to constantly deal with some demagogy that we don't need someone. They're not asking anything of us, absolutely nothing. They only give estimates of the state of our public finances and give estimates of how sustainable it is on some roads. Nothing more. Let's get this IMF thing over with, and finally put an end to it. As far as public and private sector wages are concerned, there is disproportionate and it is a serious problem, and as far as I can see, public sector wages only increase in some places, mostly in education, health care, police and the military, just so that the state will not be a competitor to the real sector and that those who need a job do not pursue the public sector, but the real sector and there earn the same salary, later on, we hope, and greater than in the public sector. It's all processes.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55633	I thank my colleague Arsic. Right on line, MP Miroljub Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55634	Just for the public. A few years ago, my friend, a former minister in the government of Montenegro, told me in a conversation that the easiest time to be a minister or a member of the government in Montenegro or any function is now the easiest time to do so. So curiously, I ask him – how, thinking it is because of good life, a high standard, and he says – simply, the IMF has its representatives within the government of Montenegro. You have a daily schedule of how to behave, you come in at nine, you hold a conference at ten with certain people who are interested, it's prescribed where you need to target the funds, whom to target the funds, possibly change if they have some, then those who are high school graduates, and the representatives are IMF, they are correcting. Since he was a minister of agriculture, it is not a secret, defines certain funds for the north of Montenegro, where it comes from. But the joy of the people was clouded by the moment the technical face, the IMF representative estimated it should go to the Bar. He stayed north of Montenegro. I said it was impossible, which he told me. Unfortunately, however, it also arrived in Serbia. The International Monetary Fund is obviously not from this government, but from earlier on, it has its technicians, high school students who control how it is available with financial resources and it comes down to the following – it is easy to be a minister in Serbia when you have someone else's opinion and when you have yours it is good to go to the IMF to give you your opinion and go back richer for your opinion. That's the point. VEROLJUB ARSIĆ: Well, I don't know what it's like in Montenegro, I don't want to insult them, I can't think of them, but I can only say that Serbia is a serious state, so that it is possible in Serbia. It may have been possible when it was the previous regime, but today it's not possible and no one will tell us what to do, or how to do, or in whose interest to do it. The government of the Republic of Serbia and the President of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic, is working exclusively for the benefit of the Republic of Serbia and its citizens. And I don't want to talk about non-serious states.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55635	Thank you, colleague Arsic. The word is made by the MP Goran Kovacevic. Here you go, colleague Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55636	Ladies and gentlemen, the SNS will support the conclusion of the Budget Committee and accept the Fiscal Council report. The economy is an exact science. For thousands of years, different principles that have not been written have been written in 500 years. In 500 years of economic theory, different economic schools, different economic principles, hundreds of thousands of people who have been working in the economy live in those 500 years. The apartment of the economic theory that proved itself in practice, the apartment of the economic theory that was applied, so they failed, as we had the case in our country. The apartment of economic theory and practices to be revised, but the housing and classical economic rules stemming from classical economic theory are greater than the Fiscal Council, the Serbian Parliament. They're bigger than the biggest state. Classical economic rules are the exclusive right of humanity and cannot be interpreted by anyone, nor by economic colleges, MPs or the Fiscal Council, to have the exclusive right to interpret them. The state of Serbia is part of the global economic system and whenever it respects classical economic rules, the state of Serbia works well. The fiscal council, of course, is part of the fiscal system of the Republic of Serbia. The law on the budgetary system, I quote, is that the Fiscal Alliance is there to assess fiscal policy based on fiscal principles and make fiscal policy public and responsible. The fiscal council also takes care of fiscal culture, should promote it. I today see this debate and your efforts as an effort for fiscal culture to be different. Of course you're giving a report and you're giving an opinion on the budget, on the fiscal strategy and essentially when in the future speech I use the expression that we agree, I don't think we're the same, I don't think we agree 100%, but it's undeniable that we have identical, or we agree on a fiscal strategy, we agree on fiscal rules. They may need to change, but we agree. We agree on fiscal principles. We agree on the mission and the vision, where it should be and what Serbia should look like. We also agreed on fiscal consolidation, and you say, I quote -- that fiscal consolidation in Serbia is precedentd in economic history and we agree essentially on the economic past that we know was a difficult, fiscal consolidation that is closer to the future, we agree in the future that we want to see Serbia. We agree on economic freedoms, respect for basic economic rules, so we're different somewhere. But the point of why we can talk like this today is Alexander Wolf. In 2014 and it seems to me that, due to history, Aleksandar Vukic took the obligation, not to do fiscal consolidation, but to change Serbia's economic order and that history will remember him and that's the key thing. In 2002, someone missed that chance, as well in 2000, in 1990, someone failed to include Serbia in countries with normal economic discipline, a normal economic order. Alexander Vukic, and that's why history will be grateful to him, he didn't miss that chance. The economy is an exact science, I'll be back to square one. The social gross product in Serbia is currently 3.5%. So we ended in 2018, it was formally bigger and you and I and we all know that the real rate of the Serbian economy two and a half years ago was about 2.93%. It grew, in 2018 we ended up at 3.5%. It's undeniable that he's cyclical, but these cycles are growing. In 2017 in the first three months we ended up as we ended up, in 2019 we have 1% more secure. I am convinced that in 2019 we will end up with 3.7%, 3.8%, closer to 4%, less to 3.5%, if there are no global economic challenges. Mr. Jokic actually told you this, if there are major economic problems at global level, how will they affect macroeconomic and fiscal stability in the state of Serbia? That's what he asked to hear from you. So it's undeniable that we have economic growth. The inflation rate is at 2% in the long run, and our inflation expectations are somewhere at about 2%. It's somewhere on the EU level, credit to the National Bank and Jorganka Tabakovic. Whatever we do about the level rate, voluntary unemployment, or employment, it is undeniable that Serbia has about 270,000 new jobs, there are fewer for 8,000 in the public sector, 270,000 in the real sector. Maybe the data doesn't always match every job. These are three key case macroeconomic parameters. There's no fourth. This is extremely important because of financial culture and fiscal culture, three macroeconomic parameters are essential. Anything else can fit into them, and foreign direct investment of 4.1 billion that the UN says, and a country that has surpluses in the budget, and a state that has no budget rebalance and hundreds of other parameters, and we usually talk about a dozen that say Serbia is well macroeconomic. It is due to the Fiscal Council, the government of the Republic of Serbia, the Serbian Parliament, each according to the law, as prescribed. I see a new role in the Fiscal Council. The role is because the Fiscal Council has become a rapper for some political parties of opposition to open topics for some television economists and I don't blame it at all. It's just, when I read your report, I don't see that it's a closed story and an undeniable truth. This is a topic for discussion in which we can express different views, different opinions, and I see that some other people see it as a new topic for attacking the Serbian government and that's okay. It's not the responsibility of the Fiscal Council. If we read a report containing thousands of sentences that speak positively about the government of Serbia and three that make a difference, I know that in the next six months, I will hear those three sentences, and three times a thousand that are positive. There's no responsibility, it's more about the economic incompetence of the people who criticize this government and I disagree with the Fiscal Council. When we talked about economic growth, which is the topic that marked 2018, the end and the beginning of 2019, the theoretical setting, you spoke about it in October 2018. You also spoke in December at the Committee on Budgets, and then I told you it was wrong to compare with European countries because European countries in their economic growth included 2.6%, the European Commission said, EU membership. So, if they did nothing, they had 2.6% of GDP every year, i.e. cumulatively by 10 years 26%, 30 billion euros received Serbian-sized countries in the last 10 years from the EU, 7% of Serbia's GDP budget of grants, the net amount said the EU, that is, what they were giving and what they received from the structural funds in part. When you say that you disagree with the World Bank in terms of 7% of GDP growth, I know it's difficult, but hypothetically to imagine that tomorrow we will join the EU with a growth of 3.7%, 4%, 3.5% and the increase we have because we have entered the European market that is unique in the market for capital and goods services with 2.6% is close to 7%. This is what I'm saying to you, that when you compare Serbia and say that you should grow like other Central European countries, you use the parameter that we are arranged as an EU country, and I use the same thing. It's different angles, different perceptions, maybe conclusions are wrong, but we're here to understand each other and to understand it. We agree on a fiscal calendar. I know that you know that we had commitments to the IMF and that that's why we were very often late, that we were a few days late, a few weeks, but we were much less late than we were late through Serbia's history when they never had a contract with the IMF. We agree on pensions, we agree on wages. Here, I, personally, would like to ask you a question that I would like to hear your answer to. All MPs here talk about paying classes, I can't be against it, but I ask you how from the level of the free market and the labour market where we strive, where we respect freedom completely, such a law affects the labour market? You have to admit that the state as the biggest employer has no problem with the lack of labour. For each job, a greater number of interested people appear and I would be interested to hear your opinion about how the level of competition in areas such as health, education, or defining a different way of funding affects the remaining young people who have completed education based, primarily on health, education and the public sector. It's a very interesting subject. A different way of financing these services and opening a sector to enter a branch of young people completely changes the image and structure of employment. Mr. Petrovic, I am speaking to you, your role as well as other people of the Fiscal Council, but you are here, impressed, simply you are a recognizable face. We see things differently. This is the normal difference that exists, which is defined in the Budgetary System Act. You're legally entitled to your opinion. Your opinion is to settle, but objectively it does not require and does not cause great responsibility and misjudges. That's how it is in democracy, that's how it's supposed to be, that's the law. Serbia's assembly is a different matter. The Serbian Parliament, the Serbian government is life, we make decisions that directly affect the lives of Serbian citizens and their wallets and their satisfaction. Sometimes we're conservative, sometimes you're optimistic about some criteria, sometimes we're too optimistic, you're conservative, that's our difference. But basically you and we are here because of the citizens of Serbia, and the citizens of Serbia are undisputed, as never in history, trusting Alexander Vukic with over 50%. One part of that huge trust, if not crucial, is because Aleksandar Vukic made Serbia a different country, and changed Serbian citizens' economic life for the better.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55637	I thank my colleague Kovacevic. The word is made by Prof. Dr. Pavle Petrovic, President of the Fiscal Council.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55638	It's about pay grade. We did one analysis last June, and now we have an inoculated analysis that we're going to complete in ten days, and we're going to send to everyone where a large number of answers are going to be related to those paying classes. It's true, it's primarily about regulating relationships between different parts of the state. So not so much about level, good and level, but also the relationship between these salaries. For example, a lawyer who has about the same job in all sectors of the state of health, administration, military and police has the same salary, that the driver has about the same salary, etc., that's one part of the problem. The other part of the problem is how to determine these pay ranges, there's also been a discussion here, that we advocate larger ranges to be able to pay the best people, so, top doctors, and that's part of the answer for that, top doctors to stay out of the country. Of course, they'll be able to get a bigger salary abroad, but it doesn't always count on those decisions to go away, it doesn't just matter about the size of the pay. If you still offer them enough competitive pay here, means top specialists, doctors, they include other things that are born here, that their lives are here, they can decide to stay here. So, as far as the private and state sector relations are concerned, it appears to the doctor, because they have an option to work both in private and in social, either abroad, either privately here or here, and of course we already have some objective criteria, and we need to consider when, we all decide, when these salaries are determined. You also need to see that problem. One is among the major sectors, meaning how much the average salary in the military should be compared to the average salary in health care and education. I'll take care of it first. There are international experiences and put it on. Then, within each of these major sectors, how to arrange pay ranges and how to settle relative salaries between, I don't know, a specialist doctor and some salary that's in the military or the police. That, I admit, is not the easiest thing to do, but it is crucial to improve the functioning of the public sector. Now, in order not to further improvise, we're just finishing up that document that's based on our previous year, where we're proposing concrete measures, so based on what exists now, what could be done and what could be done to fix that system. Here, we'll send it to you in the next two weeks. We're open to talking in any form about it, so we can track it as a special topic. I think that was the basic question of yours, yes.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55639	I thank Professor Petrovic. The word is made by MP Boban Birmancevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55640	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable President of the Fiscal Council, respected colleagues, respected citizens of Serbia, today's debate, is the one we started yesterday, and it is very important to bear in mind that we are talking about the Fiscal Council. The National Assembly, MPs, the Government, the President of the Assembly, the President of the Republic, each has a part of its responsibility and, of course, I would also like to point out that, I do not know how much of this is seen in today's debate, that part of the responsibility is definitely fiscalized, or fiscal state of the budget, or the state that we are currently in, and on the fiscal council itself. Certainly responsibility, no one escapes responsibility. But I want to point out that part of the responsibility has to take over the Fiscal Council, and of course it takes over. I'd like to get a deal on whether you're in your analysis and above all recommendations, because you're exactly what you're doing? You find the situation, you see where the problems are and you point to everyone in the most honest way possible. I'd like you to tell me if it was, and I'm sure it was, the assessment that, fortunately for the state and for the citizens, was worse, or the state did better than you expected, I'd like to hear if there were such situations, and I think it is. What I would agree with you is that economic growth is directly responsible for investment policy, i.e. investment in production and new jobs directly affect growth. But what's interesting is what I see, but I'd like you to answer me if you agree and if you see, and I'm sure the future is management in that, and that's right in the private sector. We already have a situation, I know it very well, and I know from concrete examples, that I am not making them, that certain state-owned public enterprises, or even the ministries, already have a problem keeping quality personnel, that exactly quality staffs go to the private sector, because all those who work well, and when I say all those who work well, regardless of their degree, or whether it's a doctoral diploma, college, high school, means a good worker, no matter what level of education he was, he'll be paid better already in the private sector than in the state sector, which is good. Exactly, what we're seeing isn't the result of luck, so as luck, it's starting to get better. No, it's not a result of happiness, it's a result of serious work and, above all, serious work. Indeed, my colleague Kovacevic said, and there I will agree with him, indeed one man key to this whole story and not in 2014 but in 2012. Alexander Vukic is key, but in order for Alexander Vukic to exist, he needed a people who would recognize politics and an opportunity to bring Serbia back to its place in the world through Alexander Vukic and his policies. What was the problem until 2012, it was that we were marked as some black spot, not as a place to invest, but as a place to visit in a wide port. You must, when you look real, not you, but anyone who really wants to talk, regardless of whether the opposition or position, and you, especially as an independent, in my opinion, is an independent organ who speaks what he sees and speaks what he thinks. But it's a good thing you have both that weight as a professor and as an institution that tries best to identify problems and give us the best possible advice. But you must agree -- that there was no Alexander Vukic, that we did not change the picture of Serbia, which everyone was visiting in a broad port, now, at this point, all the roads of the water to Serbia. Yes, all roads lead to Serbia. Putin's coming, the Germans are coming, the English are coming, the French are coming, and Trump is coming, and the Chinese aren't talking. Through Serbia, the Chinese found a window into the world, but the world that touches Europe. So, in 2012, it was fragile, but it was fragile, thanks to the citizens above all, they broke. Aleksandar Vukic has been given the opportunity and has shown that Serbia can and that it is these high-quality people, quality in every sense of that word, that we are not going any further, from St Sava via Nikola Tesla, Pupina, to Novak Djokovic, and that I do not list our present greats, we simply have the capable, smart and above all people who are dedicated to Serbia. It may not be a subject for the Fiscal Council, but at the moment we come into a crisis situation that we had not so far, in 2014, during the flood, so we were all ready to help even when we came to a crisis situation and the situation of war that everyone was ready to accept weapons, and the one who works in the country and the one who works in the factory and the teacher and the professor and the engineer. That's exactly the quality of Serbia. I insist on the Fiscal Council to be more specific only in the work to understand the little specificity of Serbia, I don't know if you have a chance at all, that you could simply have better proposals. Here, let's take an example of Machvanski, Kolubarski, Zajecarski, any district, when we talk about investors, investors existed before Alexander Vukic and before the SNS government, but we couldn't bring investors to normal, fiscalized and fiscally arranged, consolidated states. There's no need for you to say it at a forum in Kopalnik or here in the Assembly, but what investors know, they know, they know it and they know it. Finally, citizens know that they live in a country that is consolidated and in which they don't have to chase to buy the euro or buy dollars or any other currency, they simply owe themselves to dinars, they don't have to worry about it. What counterpart Mika Jokic said – please help in this direction, there is some advice on consolidation. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: Who is this Mika Jokic? · Global Voices ( ) Our fellow doc. Dr. Mika Jokic, that's who doesn't know. For those who don't know, Mikhailo Jokic. I'm glad we have good co-operation, and that's what you found in your reports, between the National Assembly and your institution, and that shows that this National Assembly is on track to help Serbia's citizens first of all recover Serbia. There is no restored Serbia without every citizen, of course, being neither nice nor good, but each citizen seeing an opportunity for himself and seeing that he has a future. What marked a past, a lack of trust in domestic institutions, investor mistrust, inflation, corruption, bribery, privatisation and a criminally sold bank, is all in the past. Thanks above all to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, President of the Republic of Serbia, but under the number one citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we have a situation that we have and what's good, this Serbia has a future, public debt is down to 51%, I'm sure we can serve it without new borrowings. Please just once again, when you're talking and making plans and suggestions, you're considering the situation on the ground. Ruma existed before 2012, so from 2012 it opened 10 factories in Ruma, so the factory in Mali Zvornik opened, so the factory in Ljubovija opened, so the factory in Krupanj opened, factory in Šapac, Jazaki company came, 10.2m euros in incentives were given by the state. These incentives were given by the state, of course, but it was an incentive given by the citizens. Of course, these are incentives from the Republic of Serbia's budget, so the biggest investor in this state of Serbia run by Aleksandar Vukic are citizens right now. So trust and fair relations policy towards citizens is certainly a policy represented by both the Fiscal Council and this Assembly and the President of the Republic and with this policy we have a secure future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55641	Thank you, colleague Birmanchevic. The word has a folk letter from Andrian Avramov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55642	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman of the National Assembly, respected representatives of the Fiscal Council, respected fellow MPs, is today on the agenda of the report on the work of the Fiscal Council for 2018. Thanks to our President, Aleksandr Vukic, who seeks sustainable fiscal policy and points to desirable ways and measures, Serbia's economic growth has been observed. We managed to preserve fiscal discipline in 2018. The accumulation of public debt endangers economic stability, the development perspective of the state and the well-being of future generations. We don't want to underestimate your role. It is important to form a Fiscal Council that assesses the credibility of fiscal policy from the aspect of compliance with fiscal rules, but also from the aspect of respect for both rational and proper spending of funds, and for the benefit of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thanks to the proposal and the opinion of the Fiscal Council, the Fiscal Council proposes the Budget Law and the Final Budget Account Act. This strengthens budgetary discipline, improves coordination between different levels of government and reduces uncertainty about future fiscal policy. There is good and constructive co-operation of the Fiscal Council with the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, primarily through the work of the Finance Committee, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds, then, co-operation with representatives of the Government and the Ministry of Finance, with the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport, Infrastructure, where all data of the public debt movement on the realisation of capital projects and all other topics of economic importance have been provided. Good co-operation has also been observed with the State Auditing Institution on subsidies and city administrations of the four largest cities – Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nis and Kragujevac. It is important to say that our president fully implements all necessary reforms as soon as possible from the tax administration to the mining and energy sectors, in order to ensure GDP growth. In addition, there is also a meeting of our presidents with representatives of the World Bank, with which our president discussed a new growth strategy for Serbia. It is important to stress that at this point Serbia has no problems with finances, but that it must certainly achieve greater GDP growth to make citizens' living standards even better. Representatives of the World Bank have expressed satisfaction with all the results Serbia has achieved, primarily regarding the surplus in the budget, as well as the decreasing level of public debt, stable investment growth and a reduction in unemployment. The budget's been in order for a few years now. In 2018, the general government surplus amounted to over 35 billion dinars. Public debt was reduced to slightly less than 55% of GDP during 2019, which is another confirmation that the public finance crisis has been avoided. One of the government's most important tasks is to preserve budgetary discipline, as this results in an acceleration of economic growth. Serbia's exclusively responsible policy and stable economic growth provide an opportunity to re-enlarge wages and pensions and a high employment rate that has increased to 20% this year, let's not forget that. Thanks to the proper policy of our President Alexander Vukic, more than 200 factories have been opened in Serbia so far. Serbia records economic growth, reduces unemployment and reduces public debt. Privatisation of RTV Bor and the PKK has made significant progress in solving the problems of failed state-owned enterprises where normal capitalist models have been made as everywhere in the world. What I would like to point out at the end of my presentation is the significant and visible results that the SNS has achieved since 2012. Citizens are aware that every day we are making more and more efforts to solve the key problems of our society. Serbia is recognizable in the world thanks to the security policy of President Aleksandar Vukic and his hard work daily in the interest of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55643	Thank you, colleague Avramov. The word has a folk MP, Dragana Kostic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55644	I thank the chairman. Dear President of the Fiscal Council and other members, fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, what I want to say at the very beginning of my presentation is that the Fiscal Council with the Fiscal Council of Republika Srpska concluded a memorandum last year 2018 and that you, Mr. Petrovic, hosted representatives of the Fiscal Council of Republika Srpska in November 2018. It is just another confirmation of the long-standing and hard work of our President Alexander Vukic, who was almost proud to say that he had never had better relations with the Republika Srpska, with our brotherly neighbours. However, what I kind of resent your report, but on the one hand, I understand you, because you are so constantly talking about some public enterprises that are in the dubiosis, among other things, is the company, the Public Enterprise Resavica, and I resent that you keep saying that they are inert. It is true, and you resent the state for constantly giving subsidies to these 4,000 miners and saying that nothing is happening, that they constantly reserve funds and spend on closing the mines, but that so far no mine has been closed. It is that no mine is closed, but last year two rounds of social programme were conducted in Resavica, and now nearly 500 workers are less employed than they were. Shutting down the mines may be a much bigger and much more patient job than just opening a mine. It's no small thing, Resavica is not one mine, Resavica are in fact enterprises within which nine mines work on nine Serbian territories. Sometimes data, economic data isn't enough for a decision. We need to know where the mines themselves are, that they are located on some borders, and that this is very important for the country's social, demographic policy. The second thing is, it's not only a problem to issue funds, it needs to be in addition to these allegations you've put on, you have to put the state, or the 2019 budget, and the investment in those mines that are profitable, and we've fortunately got three that can really satisfy, with their production they can support rather than depend on the state's subsidies. I have to go back to 2014 when that flood in Kolubara was then Resavica, with a small production relative to the production of Kolubara, but it did significantly contribute to some stabilization of then electricity production, especially in TE “Morava”. So I had a moral obligation because always the miners when they hear your report they say the fiscal council is against us. I understand you as an expert, but you must understand them on the other hand as miners who have the most responsible, surely the hardest job in this country. Then you resent us, or this government, that we don't invest enough, and I don't think we've ever invested again, that it's never been built in this country again, and in particular you've turned your attention to the infrastructure in traffic and rail. I don't know, but in our reports that we have received, the infrastructure of the Serbian Railways, we have received information that a reconstruction of the 300km of regional railways is being carried out this year. I ignore what the Belgrade-Budapest railway is doing, which is indeed one capital investment project, which is not only important for our country, but also for the other neighbouring countries around us. Then, in construction, we never built again than last year in 2018, 13.9% compared to 2017, the value of construction works carried out. From 2013 to 2018, we increased the value of works related to transport, construction and infrastructure by 1.2 billion euros. So from 189.5 billion dinars to 332 billion dinars. The majority of growth is an increase in investment in traffic infrastructure. By doing so in 2013, the participation of construction in GDP was 3%, and last year it was 4.7%. As of this year, a new investment cycle of over five billion euros begins, suggesting that Serbia will invest more and more each year and that no one can stand up to the development of our country, and certainly our president, Aleksandar Vukic, is the most responsible. Except for direct investment, I have to say that there are some indirect investments, such as. What Mr. Alexander Vucic, our president has provided 500 million for the vouchers in tourism, has therefore indirectly invested in the private sector, because those who deal with tourism will certainly invest in their capacities because they know they have secured 100,000 new guests. So on the one hand, I support this report of yours, but on the other hand, it seems to me, there are some things that are indirect and that affect GDP growth that are not seen, or maybe you've seen it, but we haven't noticed it through the report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55645	Thank you. The word is made by Prof. Dr. Pavle Petrovic, President of the Fiscal Council.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55646	Regarding Resavico, of course we at the Fiscal Council have the understanding that this is a human problem, that it is not so easy to delete because they are not profitable but it takes too long, tens of thousands of euros per employee gets a grant every year. It's about getting close to solving that problem. It's simply not sustainable. You can't go on forever giving each employee, I mean, you don't give it literally but the size of the subsidy when it's divided by the number of employees is that much. What's our criticism is why it's not being taken. Here, now you're telling me that there are three rental mines, that in these mines they need if they're really rentable, that they're not looking for a subsidy again, because it's unsustainable, they need to invest, but then they need to shut down those who don't. But we see in the budget year by year, same reservation, nothing happens, except now you've told me 500 people are gone for the social program. Of course we understand the fate of these people, but it's not the solution to stay from now on until the end of the century that each year, per employee, is given to find these direct investments that you've been talking about. Then why don't some of these foreign direct investments be brought into Resavico, the Despotovac, to replace it, so that it's good. This isn't the solution. So that's our criticism. As for what you've indicated is that building public investment is increasing, which is true, it was actually very low, some, let's say, something over 2% of GDP. Now it's almost doubled back about two to three years, and then that's what you're noticing. But it's still a level that's smaller than they have countries that are comparable to us. So, on the one hand, we should do more, although it's increased, to invest, talk about public investment, when we look at comparatively with countries that are comparable to us, and from the other point of view, we need infrastructure - railways, roads, environmental protection. And the third party, when we found out in that report, we didn't see the budget space for this year 2019, and that's more than it is now. It went to other purposes that don't encourage economic growth, it was a decision and we don't think it was good, but it's up to you to decide what it is, but let's look ahead. Now, in the next budget, soon, we have this fiscal strategy, we will send this report, which is the framework for this, at the end of September and in early October will be a stronger framework for the budget, and then we will focus these free funds together, i.e. Our recommendation is to focus more on roads, railways and the protection of the human environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55647	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Natasha St. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55648	Thank you, Chairman. Respected members of the Fiscal Council, respected fellow MPs, the Fiscal Council of Serbia has estimated that the planned fiscal deficit that is structurally balanced, is important to point out, will lead to a further reduction of public debt from 54% to 51.5%, which is also faster than expected. The estimate that the Serbian economy will grow 20% over the next four years is realistic, if, meanwhile, the allocation for investments from the current GDP would rise by 23%. The basic criticism of the Fiscal Council, we could see from this report, that insufficient investment in infrastructure, education and health care is needed and that another 200m euros is needed more than anticipated. It's on the professional side okay. But from the point of view found by the SNS when it came to power, which was abandoned and derailed by homes of health, hospitals, schools, which have not been restored since their construction, and the new ones were a mental noun, we now see that an intensively built Clinical Center in Belgrade is being built, that a magnificent building in Nis was completed, also a clinical center, that yesterday a stone was just laid the foundation for Dedinje 2, to mention my city of Mladenovac, where a home of health is being built, in which nothing was also built, and then the neighbouring municipality of Arangelovac, where it is being invested in the hospital, etc. And so we could go from town to town and talk about how much we invested in these health facilities. As far as schools are concerned, there is no school in the territory of the Republic of Serbia that has not been invested in, which has not been restored, to create better and more humane conditions for our children. But it would take hours to dial it up. And of course I agree that it's not enough, but you have to understand that we can't get there, simply, over the past decade, not the work of our political predecessors. The fiscal council says that part of the money he was supposed to go for the infrastructure went to equip the military and raise the wages. But it must be understood that it was necessary, because our army was completely naked, with no weapons, no planes, which means a defenseless country. And as we are constantly being overcome by some danger, it threatens to destabilise, to invade our southern province, when they try with the blessing of powerful forces to take our territory, this is completely, you will admit, logically and responsibly, both by our president of the state and by our government and the expenditure on the 165 billion dinar budget relating to the purchase of equipment for the military and for the police is fully justified. When an empty house and the previous government sold tanks in old iron, when the country completely ran out of equipment and weapons, it is completely domestic to invest in this segment, because without the security of our citizens, it is not possible to make progress. It is estimated that real investment will remain at the level of 2018 and these investments have brought the country into surplus, which is very important to us. Investment has led to higher employment and greater public spending, as a driver of the economy. We took big steps forward and made a turn in the economy, and that's obvious. But we have to go further. We also saw in the report that the Fiscal Council, which is very critical in many segments, estimates that it also has good co-operation with the Assembly Committee on Finance and the Republic Budget, then with the ministries, with cities, with the DRI. He didn't say for a moment that he had bad co-operation. He said he had good co-operation. The financial council also supports the withdrawal of the Retirement Law, which was needed at one point to consolidate the country's budget. We weren't happy when he was introduced, but we were waiting for the surplus and we were waiting for the country to get on its feet, so we could end the pension reduction law. Many times our president thanked the pensioners for the sacrifice they made for the country's future. In the development of the 2018 budget, it proved that the technical simple task of returning to a regulated pension system was also a political challenge for us. There is also great progress in the public sector, as we have made the losers positive public enterprises in Belgrade. For example, in 2012, the losses of the public sector were over 60 billion dinars, and now, in 2018, 20 billion are winning. It's a big change. It's much better done. On the other hand, years have passed and RTB- Bor has been successfully privatised and today we have talked about the PKK and a strategic partner has been found for "Nikola Tesla" airport, but there are still state-owned enterprises waiting for privatisation, as in this case Resavica, because these companies have been bullied and devastated and in huge debt by their leaderships from the previous regime, because the crisis did not happen yesterday, but 20 and more years ago. Among them are Petrochemy and Lasta, Simpo, Jumko, Trajal and so on. Here I would particularly refer to "Last", whose difficult position is further difficult by introducing the Bus Plus, which has also left us with Gilas. A contract that was signed when he was mayor of Belgrade cannot be broken up without huge pens measuring millions of euros. Lasta is at a loss, and in order to maintain public transport, it also suffers the budget of the city of Belgrade. The order of costs is 150 million in 2018 and to mention - in the huge debts they left us on various grounds, over a billion were in charge of the city of Belgrade. After years, a whole set of tax laws was adopted, just to facilitate business business, to attract investment, then to reduce overburdening on profits, all in order to attract investment and reduce the unemployment rate. The fiscal council, we see here, opposes the ban on employment and advocates the approval of employment where professional staff are missing, so that the job does not suffer. I really agree with this. It also warns that the current public sector wage system is based on a large number of basics and coefficients, which makes it impossible to control well and agree, too, that there is a need to increase transparency and regulate this area. This, of course, is not easy at all, because for decades it has been working on a different principle, but citizens deserve a public administration that is much more efficient, better, insists on eGovernment and our government is working on it. The process, I might say, is on its way. The proposal is that the gaps between the lowest and highest salaries should also be increased. I'm just saying how difficult this is, but I hope that our government will be able to arrange that area on your recommendation. Given the inherited difficult economic situation and from closer and further past and internal and external enemies, who do not think well of this country and its future, who are destroying, who want to lynch the president of the state of Alexander Vukic, and he is the engine driver of this country who is working tirelessly in the interests of his country and the results are evident to everyone. Not everyone has to love him, but he should respect him as a reformer of a country that was on the verge of bankruptcy and collapse. Economic growth may not be as fast, at least not as much as we would like, but the dubiosis was so large and so skillfully hidden from the previous government that this country's rebirth is a real economic boom. Serbia does not hate but progress and construction. Let's do it from our side, and you from your side, of course. Advising and professionally, to advance faster, stronger and better not only for our sake, but for future generations to whom we want to give a better place to live. We don't have to agree on everything, but we should work together as a team. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55649	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. The word is made by Prof. Dr. Pavle Petrovic, President of the Fiscal Council. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55650	Thank you. Just two, three notes. To avoid confusion, it's not our projection that in the next four years, the economy will grow by 20%. That's what I think Minister Mali stands for. We think that if there are no significant reforms, it was a discussion this morning, not to repeat it, about increasing the rate of investment, changing the economic environment, etc., that we will remain at some rate of about 3.5%, which in those four years would give about 14%. So, first of all, it's not our projection that it's 20% and that it's going automatically, it's much less if you don't get into the serious reforms that we're suggesting, and obviously there's no agreement in this composition whether they're basic termites. The second thing, you said about public investment, why public investment in infrastructure, you quoted us, less. Partly because of investment in defense, military and police, and you explained why it was, but it was also an increase in wages. So, we think that part of the increase in wages in the public sector, which was significantly above what the wages in the private sector were growing, was unwarranted and that particular part was to be invested in protecting the environment, roads. Finally, the Retirement Act, you say it couldn't have been lifted sooner. On the contrary, in 2017, fortunately, budget balance has been achieved and a fiscal space has already been opened in order to increase pension space in 2018. In 2018, this was not done, as we suggested by returning to the system, by abolishing that law. So it could have been done then, rather than done ad hoc by increasing pensions and only a year after that, that system was restored to normal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55651	Thank you, Professor. Petrovich. The word has a folk emissary Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55652	Thank you, Chairman, Mr. Milicevic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Representatives of the Fiscal Council, we are facing today a report by the Fiscal Council as an independent state body, whose role is to assess compliance with fiscal rules and ensure public and accountability in the conduct of fiscal policy. The Fiscal Council shall conduct fiscal policy analyses and organise expert discussions in this area. The very important role of the Fiscal Council is seen in monitoring and assessing the effects of economic policy, fiscal risks and the likelihood of whether the government will meet fiscal objectives by respecting fiscal rules. The submission of the report to the National Assembly and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending shall provide the public with the work of the Fiscal Council. Also, reports, analyses and opinions should really be on the website of the Fiscal Council so that citizens can get acquainted with them at any time, as they will thus monitor both the work of the Fiscal Council and the effects of this work. In 2018, the Fiscal Council also sought to contribute to a better and sustainable fiscal policy by pointing to measures to improve public finances and economic growth. The most important task of the Fiscal Council in 2018 was to control pension and salary expenditure in the public sector and to provide support for the regulation of the pension system on permanent grounds. The fiscal consolidation that was necessary rested on difficult measures that were temporary, but thus from the state of bankruptcy we came to a point when we really had a stable state register. For example, at the end of 2014, the state was in a 2.2 billion-euro deficit. In 2015, public debt was close to 80% of GDP. At the end of 2018, we had a surplus in the budget of around 68 billion dinars, while the public debt amounted to 54% of GDP. As part of the fiscal consolidation process, the share of pension expenditure decreased from 12.8% of GDP in 2013 to 10.5% of GDP in 2018. Pensions are in line with economic opportunities, and today, thanks to, above all, to the surplus in the budget, the Retirement of Pensions Act has been put out of effect. As regards wages in the public sector, they increased from 2016 to 2018 between two and ten percent. Three times the minimum profit has been increased. The price of the working hour at the end of 2014, for example, was 115 dinars, while in 2018 it increased to 155 dinars. This year's plan is to increase wages ranging from 7% to 12%. Therefore, compliance with fiscal rules, budgetary discipline, good co-operation between all levels of government have produced results and created security in terms of future fiscal policy. The fiscal policy conducted by the Serbian government has yielded obvious results and the results will be even better. Of course, it is indisputable to engage the Fiscal Council in an undisputed way to give a complete picture of this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55653	Thank you, colleague Žarić Kovacevic. The word has a folk MP, Vera Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55654	Dear Chairman Milicevic, President of the Fiscal Council of Associates, fellow MPs, in March of this year, and on the basis of Article 92. The Law on the Budgetary System, a report on the work of the Fiscal Council for 2018 was delivered. In addition to data on the budget implemented in 2018, the report also contains a chapter on the co-operation of the Fiscal Council with held bodies, organisations, media co-operation, the presentation of the activities of the Fiscal Council in the media, the review of the most important analyses of the control of expenditure on pensions and wages in the public sector, as well as salaries in the state sector, in public enterprises, investments in environmental protection, investments in roads and railways. The fiscal rules were introduced in 2010 and applied since 2011. Professor Petrovic is the second term, so since he knows what results we inherited in 2012 from the former authorities, which can not even be called results, but a sink, where unemployment was about 26%, public debt about 76%, and the economy was completely destroyed. In your presentation, you yourself said that some measures by the government were headed in a good direction, such as reform of the pension system, and in the case of a proposal for indexation on the Swiss case. Your criticism goes in the direction of employment, i.e. Public sector employment bans, which were made in 2014, but if such a decision had not been made at the time, as well as a pension reduction decision, the state would not have achieved financial consolidation so quickly, so for 2018 we have a budget surplus of 35 billion and a public debt cut to about 50%. The government is working to make public sector employment more flexible, i.e. to lift the ban in 2020 and complete the reform in mid-2020. Introducing payment classes. In your opening statement, you stressed that not enough funds were allocated for investment and environmental protection, but compared to the period before 2012, I would say that the results are such that we can be proud of both our government and our President, Alexander Vukic, who achieved incredible results. In your report on page 25, you give me an assessment of the bad situation in the area of investment in the travel economy, and you even suspect that Corridor 10 will be completed soon, which has particularly bothered me, but, well, the thing is done, Corridor 10 has been released in traffic. I'm asking you to do the data, not the predictions. In 2017, 56km of highway was built, 85km of railways, and how many other local roads. In 2018 over 100 kilometers of highway built. It should not be forgotten that Corridor 10 has its own history, and even Prime Minister Djindjic himself promised that the path from Leskovac to the Macedonian border would be completed by the 2004 Athens Olympics. In your report, you are talking about reforming the public finances of local self-government. In an analysis you conducted in 2018, you say local self-government budgets haven't been arranged yet. I agree, it's going hard, but you don't tell me what we found in those local self-governments and how many thefts have been in almost every municipality, and we'll only see it next year when the election ends. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55655	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. The word is made by Prof. Dr. Pavle Petrovic, President of the Fiscal Council. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55656	Just some clarifications. We advocated a ban on employment that year, and that resulted. The point is that keeping that measure for six years has already become counterproductive. Then it was put into the consolidation plan and we supported it, that it would last a year, and in the meantime the government would run an analysis of surpluses and deficits and needs and then move on to the system. It hasn't been done in six years, and now it's become counterproductive. As the MPs here pointed out, I think it's starting to brake that system itself. So our proposal next year is to start with a more flexible system, to solve problems, where the biggest ones are, where people are obviously missing, and to allow employment, but it must not be uncontrollable, to destroy our budget, and to use the time from now on for a year and a half to make detailed systematicisation and analysis, where necessary, where deficits and surpluses are necessary, and then to run politics on that basis. Of course, when we say flexible, it doesn't mean now that you open the dam, and now, from once on, to blow up the number of public sector workers, it's now the responsibility of the government, and the Assembly is controlling that a real increase goes to those parts where it's critical, where the system can't work. Here's a minor note. I don't know why you're criticizing us for Corridor 10, that's the 2018 report. We said it wouldn't be over, so it's not over. Part of the Gredile ravine is now complete, the east leg has yet to be completed. I don't know why the facts should be pushed aside. Now, as a professional, I have to tell you that public investment in the period until 2011 was systematically higher, ranging from 3.8, 4.5%, at least 3.1.3% in 2011 GDP, and in this period until 2016 and ending with 2016 were 2, 2, 3, 1 and 3, so that by 2016 public investments were less than before 2012. The shift is taking place in 2017 and 2018, significantly, it is already 4% and the plan is over 4%, the plans are for it to be bigger next year and we support it and we think there are both needs and money and we hope the capacity to use these funds, investments, useful use. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55657	I thank Professor Petrovic. The word has been given by MP Zoran Bojanić. The word has a folk letter from Ljiljana Malusic. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55658	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mr Petrovic, with his associates, ladies and gentlemen, we have today's report on the work of the Fiscal Council for 2018. This is the first time we've considered the report. You're an independent organ and it's very good, but you have a responsibility to us. Perhaps during today's debate, she seemed to have bile. No, it's not bile, on the one hand it's us who represent the people and who simply answer their demands and questions, and on the other hand statistics are inevitable. I wouldn't say there were even hard words or criticism sent to you. I can't give you criticism, I can only express my opinion and my view of something that you said in your report. For example, I remembered that you said not enough investment in health and education. It is certainly not enough in relation to Switzerland, but from 2000 to 2012 there is a huge investment. Let's just remember what Serbia looked like by 2012, completely devastated, without a home of health. I come from the municipality of Voždovac, which has an urban and rural part, and in that municipality, which has 170 thousand inhabitants, two homes of health were built in four years. One that was a ruin, where drug addicts and breakthroughs gathered, means completely renovated in the Duke of Stepe, and the other in the Eggs, which meets the needs of 50,000 people. It's just these two homes of health. Then three ambulances. I'm only talking about Vozdovac, and imagine in the city of Belgrade. So, mass-renovated infirmarys, my Home of Health Leader's renovated. It is now being renovated, i.e. the second phase that was started 50 years ago is completely nonexistent. So, the brand-new infrastructure of the clinic center, completed the clinic center in Nis. Then, a project was projected for a clinic in Novi Sad, he began to enjoy it. A project in Kragujevac will begin. So it's much better than it was. Then, as for education, education, too, a major shift. Let's just remember what our schools looked like. Everyone was joking at the expense of our president when he said we had to renovate the toilets. You know why? Because there were squatters. So, disaster one. I went to school, I was the assistant president of Go Leader, so I went to schools, a disaster. Devastated schools. Now fenced. We've got video surveillance, they're completely renovated. We build new schools, we build kindergartens. So, in that segment, I'd say it's much better. You're right, it's not enough, we should try to thank you, your criticism, your reports. It'll be better, but we have to realize it's really much better. In other words, that's what the citizens showed in the elections when we got 55% of the votes, not because we don't, but because we do. I loved that you said that in 2019, part of the budget will go towards the infrastructure and it will amount to 200m euros. Bravo! Some kind of pathway on my Leader? It's a disaster. So, people go through fields and meadows. Since 2014, another story, how much money, how many roads. Also, there's a whole part of it under septic pits when we're talking, so I'm going to give you a taxicab what you said right. You said it all right, but something I like, something I don't like. So, the 21st century, septic caves, infrastructure is done, it's done sewers, it's done water. When I tell you that Ripanj, a village ten kilometers away, still doesn't have all the households drinking water, people are in shock. Thanks to infrastructure, good work by our government, then local self-government, 90% of people now have drinking water. Now we're doing sewers. So we're doing well, but there's not enough money in the budget. Let's just remember in 2012, the budget that was falsely shown to us, because we thought it was really a budget deficit, that the public debt was 14 and 15 billion, which was not true. We found 25 billion and 26 billion in debt. Not the computer gentlemen, sir, it has nothing to do with you, I'm just saying for the sake of the people that they know, since the fiscal council is an independent body that is cruel in terms of statistics. The numbers are one thing, but we have to tell you what happened in 2012. We found a devastated country. We've found a budget of 78% of GDP minus, today it's 50%. So we did it right. Budget surplus. We build fast tracks, we build roads, we finish Corridor 10, we finish the fast track. It costs a lot, but we'll be done. This country has potential. We are a factor of stability in the Balkans. The investors are coming. I just remember in 2008 400,000 people were fired. That doesn't mean 400,000 people, but their families, so about a million people are out of work. We don't do anything like that. We hire people. How? Not by state institutions, but by bringing foreign investors. Over 200 factories have been opened. We hired over 200,000 people. That's the data. It's inevitability. Every day it opens up for some factory. Something that has touched me personally about the privatisation that is public, should indeed be commended. Every word of praise for what we do now in public. Corruption, zero tolerance, however, has corruption. Well, it's everywhere. I'm slow, but I'm sure it'll be eradicated. There's something else I didn't like, and that's that I don't need to invest in the military and the police. It just can't do that. It's like an apartment without a key in the door. So security is now being given by the military and the police. There's something else burning my ears. There are a lot of good things, but this is me personally, simply, representing my people, so I have to say what it is. You said - the rule of law threatened. I didn't understand in what way. I suppose it's the speed of the courts, only in this context can it be, although the judiciary works much better than it did by 2012. If I talk about whose rights are threatened, I can't say it's always been on the wallpaper since 2012, Mr. Alexander Vukic, who is threatened with death, to whom they address the word Hitler. Imagine, Hitler. I've never heard that before. So what, he had gas chambers? Who did this Mr. Wolf kill? No one ever does, but hires. He opened 200 factories, hired 200,000 people, not only him, but, of course, the government and everyone. Of course, it has nothing to do with you, but I'd like you to tell me what the rule of law is. I guess they're a little threatened, to that judiciary. Again, we are a very democratic society. No one's been removed because it's not SNS, it's simple, until people retire. We're tolerated. We don't have political employment, we have a fit. We respect what someone's been doing there for 20, 30 years. I think that's what you meant. You'll explain it to me. There's so much I want to say. I have to commend that you're advocating ecology, because indeed, this country is 50 years old, no one has invested alive, and we're paying for the penalty. It's a good thing you said 500 million will go on an annual basis, eight and a half billion in 10 years. I think it's the right way, because we'll never get into Europe unless we clean up Serbia. It's a good thing you're working with the media, it's a good thing you're working with other state institutions, with foreign institutions. So don't take this as a criticism. I'm not competent to criticize you. This is just my view of some of yours, not you, dear Mr. Petrovic, but simply the Fiscal Council. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55659	Thank you. Dr. Pavle Petrovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55660	This for the rule of law and control of corruption, we took this from international analysis. That's what the World Bank does, works in parallel for a lot of countries, and we used those indicators in these empirical studies. Basically, yes, it applies to the judiciary, to the protection of speech, that when you have concluded something, you can do it, and if you can't, then it directly affects your work, especially small and medium-sized enterprises. So, the source is an international source, which in parallel analyses a large number of countries and then in some ways objectively gives us, like, the World Economic Forum, which is often quoted here, is doing some other analysis.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55661	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55662	Thank you. The honourable representatives of the Fiscal Council, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, has been a very comprehensive debate today when it comes to the report on the work of the Fiscal Council, but I think it's a good thing that we heard some of the discussions, let me say, dissonant tones, because they can only contribute to the quality of the debate. I am aware of the importance and roles of the Fiscal Council in the consolidation of public finances and economic recovery of our country, which means respect for already established, let me say, fiscal rules and improving accountability in the conduct of fiscal policy. But certainly, today the situation is incomparably better than in a period before the SNS and coalition partners took responsibility for the exercise of power in Serbia, as seen from every data, almost every parameter, and public debt, which is significantly smaller. We have also heard about concrete percentages in this regard today, but what is more important is that a further decline in public debt is known and I think we all agree on that, but also when it comes to stopping the negative growth of GDP, all estimates say that this trend will continue and that this year growth will be 4.5%. It all affects further economic growth, our country's credit rating, interest rates, stable economy, in one word, the overall economic portfolio of our country. But that also affects the inflow of new investments, which leads to new jobs, which together leads to a better standard of living for our citizens. The money is the most stable, if you look back many years, even decades. And it creates conditions for further pension growth, further wage growth in the public sector, as announced. We can certainly say that Serbia is on a good path in this sense and that the citizens of Serbia know very well and understand very well and what is more important, they know very well and who is responsible for this, Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic and the Serbian Government. Of course, the precondition for all this is peace and political stability in both Serbia and the region, but that's another topic, so I wouldn't talk about it this time. But what bothers me personally is that today's debate is going on again without a representative of the opposition that are in the so-called. The boycott and they again send a message that they are not interested in the debate on the state of the economy in our country, that they do not want to take on that shred of responsibility to appear here, to present their position on this report, whatever it may be, if they are to give a grudge either today or yesterday when we adopted the report on the work of the DRI, or when it was the KIM report, and they are full of KIM's mouth every day, nor when it was Tijana's law, nor many other laws that the Assembly adopted this year. Here's what they say. You remember that Marina Tepic, the MP. I think she's a recordr in the number of parties she's changed from, in the number of parties she's gone from. Marinika Tepic says there is no topic over topics that will lure them to participate, they say, in the work of the Assembly until certain laws are met. So no topic for Marinika Tepic is important. No topic can make her come to work. What does Bosko Obradovic say? Bosko Obradovic says protests and boycott parliaments will continue until clear guarantees are received that the work of the Serbian Parliament will be normalised, that the media will be free and conditions for elections fair. What are these guarantees? One guarantee, and that is Maya Gojkovic's resignation. It's important to Boška Obradovic. So it's his only guarantee, and it's the only topic he's interested in. I understand Bosko Obradovic and now the Serbian Parliament is not particularly interesting to him, he finds the most interesting US Embassy. A little bit, a little bit, then Bosko at the American Embassy. They say people haven't been coming out of the American embassy in days. I don't know now maybe they hired him there, in the meantime, to see if it's a conflict of interest. It's theirs and they need to explain to voters, if they have them at all, why don't they do their job for which they're paid, for which they're still getting paid and why they're elected, in the end of the election. Because of all these arguments, but because of all the results I just pointed out, I want to give strong support to the president of Serbia and the Serbian government in all the efforts to make Serbia a successful, decent and orderly country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55663	Thank you, colleague Markovic. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55664	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia Mr. Milicevic, the respected representatives of the Fiscal Council and the respected few MPs, I will read your report all the time and will not talk much about it because my fellow Members, MPs, starting with Goran Kovacevic, Veroljub Arsic, Dr. Vlada Orlic, and I believe in the end the president of the parliamentary group, Dr. Martinovic. What matters, which is that you give your vision, and the Parliament and the Government, who lives with the lives of citizens, corrects some things, and in this probably part of it separates. Let me still say what we inherited. I'd like to be denied by political opponents. I called 36 quotes last night, and I wish they were here tonight, and if they didn't, let them do it tomorrow in the hall, not only will I not be a MP anymore, if it isn't about the betrayal of Kosovo, which they did by 2012, but I'll let the citizens of Belgrade spit on me. Now let me say that SNS and our coalition partners and President Vukic have inherited the country, as Goran Kovacevic said in one sentence, and I will now continue, in 2014, which was economically, industrialally, totally devastated, I believe that you from the Fiscal Council share our opinion, but you have your visions in line with those particular principles, law and constitution, a country that was too in charge, a country that was brought to bankruptcy by robbery privatisation, just to say, according to some surveys, 120 billion by 2012, it was introduced into the country and brought 51 billion, nothing, so to say, a country of satanized citizens, not just citizens, but also Serbia, a country with too much unemployment, 26.5% unemployment by 2012, a country without any kind of an international reputation, a country that is going to be built up by generations of us. Dear President, the head of the Fiscal Council, I was right in 2014, I will return to where Goran Kovacevic was mentioned, and you know, when I said that the Prime Minister of the time, Mr Aleksandar Vukic, made a work programme, which was the exposé of the Prime Minister on the 184th page, a shortened record, where he gave an analysis of the situation and a proposal for a measure to get out of the crisis. I'd like to be here tonight and those who don't deny me whether that happened in three years or not, starting with all the indicators. For a short period of time, I'm not going to take them out, and I hope I get a chance. Not only did it happen in 90, somewhere and 120%, starting with GDP growth. You know very well from what year, and when it happened, and besides that, by reducing those salaries and pensions, and when it came to a level, etc. Now I have to say, to repeat what I said in 2014, since my statements then and now that I'm going to repeat, those across the street from us who aren't, they've made a joke. He will not face the truth, with us, with arguments, which is that we inherited the country so, that Alexander Vukic came to the Prime Minister in 2014 and gave an analysis and a proposal for a measure, a difficult economic reform that we have implemented. I was right and today it is recognised by modern historians who are seriously involved in science, not analysts, that the time in the future will be measured before Mr. Alexander Vukic's arrival as Prime Minister, and this is the country I was talking about, and after his arrival to the Prime Minister, and this is the time of Serbia's modernisation, and now the already accelerated modernisation. I'd like to, my political opponents are here tonight and they're watching from the houses, to face the percentages of that time, the data and to see what's happened and what's not. As I said, that exposé was all said, and which I said then, I will now repeat and ask the gentlemen if I am right, which I once claimed, and many of them have now escaped from shame when I said it was the most common, that it was the most concrete, that the most precise of all the exposés of the Prime Minister since 1805 was the first to be submitted, until the Prime Minister became Alexander Vukic. I was asked by one who came and never returned from that party "never had enough", and there is no party anymore, how I got to that data. Up here, they've been researching what, two months. He wonders, I don't think so. That's the problem of those who spoke today, of those who didn't, of what should be done hard, and of us as MPs, to investigate and to do. Let me just say a few words, though. I don't want to talk about them. I'll give you one quote, and I know you know who Diana Johnston is. She said when DOS came to power: "On the wings of the people's celebration, due to the fall of Slobodan Milosevic, which was bordered by drunkenness, Serbia in its own self-declarated jag brought together the stampede of unprofessional, grammistic and arrogant people, the conceited leaders of fictitious parties, self-proclaimed experts, the half-world of all calibers and all profiles that promoted themselves to revolutionary winners, and the state and all in the state for their hostages and prey," finished the quote, Diane Johnston. I'd like someone from October 5th, these first fighters who are walking the streets of the city today, the same ones who are, and then, deny me. Let's move on. The former government, and today's opposition explains why we, in quotes, differ over some things, but I do understand the Fiscal Council. The former government, today's opposition is constantly and unsuccessfully trying to return to Serbia's political life, constantly forming various alliances and mandates, has been six to eight months, without ideas, without hard work and without one programme, except that they are interested in destroying Alexander Vukic and the media. We're going to have a special discussion about the media, not tonight, with Mr. Press, I hope. They only have one goal -- to bring down Vukic with all, unauthorized, illicit means, and any progress Serbia has made during the rule of the SNS and our coalition partners on the right, the Socialists, and Alexander Vukic to bring down. Just to remind you, and you know it very well, gentlemen of the Fiscal Council, they were against reviving "The Iron" Smederevo. Right? I will remind you if a day, a second in this high house, one of the leaders of the Alliance for Serbia, Zoran Zivkovic, a known farmer in an attempt or a manufacturer of vaccines, why the people so recognize him, because he took 532 thousand euros and damaged the budget of the Republic of Serbia and produced a vaccine from yogurt and water in the village of Pukovac at the vicinity of Nis, took the money and went away, left the people behind, now imagine what he was doing, suggested by visiting at N1, the CIA I call it, indeed CIA, here, tonight says the CIA, quoting – that "Gealezar" should be closed and sent home by workers, finished quote. I'm calling him because he says to say it, because he said it, and I'm going to tell him day, second and time in this high house and plus on N1, CIA. Here's what he says in the lobby today, silly, so I don't say what else he's been doing since he gets here. They were against "Biograda on Water". It is daily "Belgrade on Water" and will be proud not only of Belgrade, the Republic of Serbia, so that's what they're saying today. They were against rebuilding roads and highways. Is that right, gentlemen of the Fiscal Council? I know you know that, but I want the citizens of Serbia to know and they know it and let's do it again. They were against revitalisation of JAT and the airport, and it's working successfully, against RTB Bor. Never in my scientific career, I've been involved in politics voluntarily, getting paid by a permanent university professor or a high school professor, I've never experienced in my career that any opposition ever at a time of socialism and now is fighting against work, and it offers nothing else. You know why they're breaking up in one list today, I'm not going to promote it, to President Vukic and Alexander Martinovic, the Government of Orlic and other people? Because they do, they were the best when they didn't work when there was no state to rob and charge. They're against the reconstruction of the Republic Square. I must say here that is where the famous Bastic Marko, president of the Old Town municipality, came out. Look at the wonders, man Marko Bastic has established a new practice on the Serbian political scene and a new element of political culture. You know what? Dressed in an open house on his sister's council list, his godmother, wife, sister-in-law, and cousin. Today she's banging in the press. I'd like him to deny this. So he put his wife, his wife's sister, his wife's husband's sister's wife, his cousin's mother's mother. When they asked him, why do you know what he answered? He said, quote: "Nothing is disputed about what they are doing with me. I put them on the list so they don't defect to the trade of mandates," the quote concluded. It's the one who's waging a war with traffic signs on the Republic Square. The citizens recognized it. Not to say what he was doing on another occasion. You should see one of the presidents of the municipality, and I believe you know that, because they know their colleagues from the DRI, because they did it, except the D.A.'s office didn't do it, and the courts did their job. You can see what it is – the president of Smederevska Palanka Municipality and the MP of DS, Radoslav Milojičić, Kena, called beer, spent on beer 457,710 dinars in 2016. At the “Atrium” cafe, he spent 110,800 dinars on coffee and beer. Mr. 2016, 13.5. spent an extra 139 million dollars on beer. Dear Representatives of the Fiscal Council, I have been to Smederjevska Palanca and I am studying the graphite and it is quite true that in Smederjevska Palanca, the graphite which is dedicated to the corruption of our colleague who is not present tonight, and it is said again: "The truth is alive, there is no beer in Palanca. All that was left was foam, drank yellow Ken, and the beer was expensive, drank it, bought it. What drinks a bar, the budget pays for everything, I am the yellow Ken from Libovac br," finished the quote. Respected representatives of the Fiscal Council, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the SNS is fighting corruption regardless of party and membership. The arrest of the headship of the municipality of Požeg and the municipality of Grocko and the municipality of Bruce is best indicated. That is why our President of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Aleksandar Vucic, who said, I quote, that I am not torturing you any further – we will not allow the SNS to become a party of criminals and of people's money, as was the DSS, and I add, its representatives are still today. It's a finished quote. Mr. Interior Minister, Mr. Nebojsa Stefanovic, said, I quote -- "after the arrests of these no one will protect either party membership, nor booklets, nor material status, nor position in society", finished quote – Interior Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic, 12.5. 2019. As for the state administration, since your colleagues have spoken, allow only one who calls today my colleagues whom I have listed, which is a professor of the university. Look at the miracles, he was president of the Vojvodina Executive Council, Bojan Pajtic. This same Bojan Pajtic employed in the Executive Greater Vojvodina up to 20 generations of relatives. His colleague from the DS, from the leadership, from the top, Goran Jesic said and accused him, quote, I would like to be denied – Pajtic employed in the Executive Major Aunts, sisters, aunts, sister-in-laws, snorkels and godmothers. Gentlemen from the Fiscal Council and People's MPs and citizens of Serbia, out of the 670 employees of the Vojvodina Executive Council, as inherited by Pajtic, increased to 2,700, completed a quote on 17 March 2014. That's why they're not here tonight. I wish you'd listened to Kosovo last night, and they accused Alexander Vukic, with dates, with Americans and other EU representatives. They don't have the courage to face the truth. We're looking for work here, order and conflict of opinion, attitudes and truth. Let's move on. To bring this to an end, let me count them now. This is why I'm telling you, the citizens have heard it before. To see who it's about. I'll say one sentence for each one, and the citizens know why, and these are the leaders who lead the Alliance for Serbia, and I'm calling him for another robbery of Serbia, first they robbed while they were in DOS. Now I'll list them for you, and you can confirm whether they're personalities or not. Dragan Gilas, in a people called the Giki Mafia. You know why? In one sentence, he entered politics as a common nudist and came out with 700m euros. Is it true, gentlemen of the People's Parliament? Vuk Jeremic, a people called the Wolf descendant, who damaged the Republic of Serbia's budget with various corrupt actions, not to mention how much money. Otherwise, he's a member of a criminal international gang of thieves and frauds. I spoke in this high house, and it would be good, and last night I told the DRI to check his Center for International Co-operation and Democracy, where did you get all the donations and why? Janko Veselinović, behold wonders was with us, here in the people known Janko old thief. You know what he did, why they call him? Stole the apartment of Milic Baji refugees from Obrovec, and he is not a refugee, street of the Kurjakovic brothers. I hear that the other day, thanks to us and Mr. Arsic for letting this go, to return it, he took another one. Bosko Obradovic, I'm gonna stop here for a while. Don't be mad. Named a bunch of thugs, no more snotty. He was a goofy for the first two years, now a bully. You know why gentlemen, he raided the Republic Election Commission and attacked the members of the RIK, raided the municipality of Pećinci, raided Dr. Aleksandr Martinovic at a session of the Administrative Committee, raided the cabinet of the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mrs. Maja Gojkovic, raided the police station in Guca, committed an attack on journalists Pinka, attempted entry into REM, is that right, Members of the People's Parliament? He sought the shooting of the president of the Republic and the Prime Minister and attempted to invade the Serbian presidency. Is that right, gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament and the Honored Citizens of Serbia? Asked the military to carry out a coup, raided the RTS saws. Next, I don't want to bother you. In addition, Dusan Petrovic is named in the Dula Kravoci people. Why? While he was a minister of agriculture, he ordered that 250 thousand cows be slaughtered within a year, out of a total of 500 thousand. Let him say if it's true or not. Marinika Tepic, and here's the story in front of there today. You know what the people call her? It's called a flying dove. Gentlemen, the MPs and you from the Fiscal Council and the respected citizens of Serbia, they lie in one party at night, and in the morning they wake up in the other. Is it true? Twelve changed them in two years. Milojko Pantic, in a people called the crazy one. That moral gromada dead drunk driving a car and caused an accident on Brank's bridge, fled and drove in the opposite direction, and here he is muddled by the president of the state day by day, hour by hour, arrested and taken to the police station to wash out. I believe the citizens are guessing who he accused. And who would you rather be than President Alexander Wolfie? That's why I was right, gentlemen, when I said the people called him a lunatic and a drunk. He's just a drinker, that means drunk, drunk. They know who knows him well. The next Sergei Trifunovic in a people called Sergei Pisa. He declared without shame, without shame that he would piss, quote - on the grave of Alexander Vukic, finished the quote. I repeat and repeat while I'm in this high house. I didn't say this. What am I gonna say now? His colleague, Srbanovic Biljana, said. I quote - unwashed, lying Sergei, which is what this leader always was, always a sneaky liar, always licking himself, always a gold medal in getting in his ass, always lying, always smelling, always picking up money, for a meal, for a drink, never washing himself, always cheating on his colleagues, finished a quote, 20.1. Now, look at the wonders, since there is no more Sasha Pranja, Saleta Jankovica, called praggia, here comes Sergei Veselinović and Rade Veljanovski, here today criticises these honest colleagues here. The closest co-worker, Sergey Trifunovic, said on 22 April 2018, quote - Serbia should recognise Kosovo's independence and provide him with a chair in the UN, completed a quote. Dear citizens of Serbia, this is the one who curses SNS and Mr. Vukic today. That's one of the traitors I mentioned last night. Whoever says there's no traitor, that goof. They must know that in 1916, when the Germans bombed Paris, the betrayal decided there, because the betrayal was during the bombing and since then there has been a term of total war, and that includes battlefield, murder of civilians and treason. Whoever tells you they don't have it, it's usually about people like that. Now honourable MPs, let me mention our actors, and this is the actor Kojo, who said on February 4, 2019, quote - if the protests fail, I am leaving this country, finished quote. Here are the gentlemen of the same actor, 20.5.2019, he said -- people slowly realize that the protests from the beginning, from the end, were led by censors with the help of various half-worlds and semi-innovators and works of students who believed them, finished the quote. I beg him, he ceases to leave the country. Finally, in two sentences, never in recent history has any president of the Serbian government and the state been publicly attacked by lies, half-truths, bribes, such as Aleksandar Vukic, he and his family, but they forgot one thing. The more they attack him, the more they lie, the more they plant, the more they invent, the more vomit every species, he gets stronger and stronger. More and more citizens have supporters, as their positive energy flows through its enormous positive energy for the modernisation of Serbia and the future of our country. I'm sorry I ended up staying, but I made it a little longer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55665	I thank Professor Atlagic. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55666	Dear gentlemen, since we are at the very end of today's debate, I would say very good and more than exhaustive, I wanted to thank everyone who participated in it. It was an opportunity to remind ourselves today, and you respected representatives of the Fiscal Council, and we, too, agreeing on and disagreeing on, and that there is no problem at all talking about these matters openly, exchange arguments. That kind of exchange of arguments, I think it helps both you and us to be better at our work. What I am particularly interested in is how you experience the relationship you have with the National Assembly in the ongoing assembly of examples. I think I found some kind of answer in the report that you submitted to us on page 9, section 6.1, literally starts with words – the cooperation of the Fiscal Council with the National Assembly was good. Since yesterday I gave the opportunity to the representatives of the DRI, who sat in those seats where you are sitting today, to make it clear about the needs of a lead, to our public and minutes from this session. I would like to ask the same question to you, to speak freely by your own feelings and your impressions in one sentence, no longer, how do you experience your relationship, the relationship of your institution with the National Assembly in this assembly? On our part, I can tell you, with all our disagreements and disagreements, but always an open discussion, we think that co-operation was quite correct. Because that's how it is, we see that you know, no matter what you say, we will vote for the report you filed. We hope once again that this cooperation, as correct as we see it, will be that way in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55667	Thank you, colleague Orlic. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55668	Yes, the answer to this question. And we think that co-operation is basically good and productive. Often our remarks, or mine, are that occasionally some of our proposals, I don't know why, often encounter great misunderstandings, rejections, encounters and qualify as political action, to be adopted after a year. Perhaps that's why it would be good and useful, in addition to these one-year meetings, meetings once a year on the Committee on Budgets, we have another meeting in the Finance Committee during the year, where we think we have different opinions or different information, so that we can avoid and a little bit of us, and for me personally, unpleasant situations, where attacks were directly on the personality, questioning my integrity when I advocated the suspension of the Law on Temporary Pensions Reduction. I was honored by Mr. Arsic to do so from my own personal motives, so that it would be adopted after a year, including this. So, what's on the positive side, it's certainly most of the way, is that in the end for these proposals that we've advocated is the way to the government, and to the Assembly, I've brought them out, and in the end they're often adopted and we're hoping, and that's at the very end of the line and the purpose of our work and the satisfaction and satisfaction from that work. I don't see why it couldn't be without these misunderstandings and a little bit of an easier way, but basically, our proposals so far have come to an understanding, although they have been late for a year, and in that direction, reforms have been going. We hope for such cooperation in the future. There's probably going to be another misunderstanding, but let's not put these misunderstandings on a personal level.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55669	Professor Petrovic, I thought that at the end of today's work day you would make a summary, this is how you personally addressed Mr. Arsic and I must now give him a replica. Here you go, colleague Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55670	Ladies and gentlemen of the Fiscal Council, you are always welcome to the National Assembly. Do not discuss these discussions that are being conducted and concerning different opinions on certain matters that you take too personally. Then you shouldn't be doing this job. Why some of the suggestions that you had to wait or serve for a year to be accepted, I will tell you – because the government led by Aleksandar Vukic, and now Prime Minister Ana Brnabic, has a rather conservative view of spending public funds. So we want to be sure of the results that we have during the fiscal consolidation measure and that we can really do this proposal of yours that you have on the long run to provide real resources from the budget. It doesn't need to be taken personally, it's just a different approach to the same problem. So, we don't want all these results for which Serbia's most responsible citizens, among other things, are pensioners, to be questioned by any reckless procedure. Maybe it's on your side, not maybe, but I'm sure it's done in the best way, maybe you had better projections than we did when you suggested it, but still accept that it's our responsibility and that we have consequences if we accept something or don't accept it. And don't blame us for that. We are really doing the best we can and we know about the state of Serbia, in those circumstances as well as the political situation that exists in the region and the environment, and the accession of Serbia to the EU, and even the various sanctions that the great forces have imposed on each other and are trying to drag us into these stories. It's very difficult to face all these challenges to lead a country that's been devastated, destroyed, without an adequate state apparatus that's been prepared to get caught up in solving the problems we've been having. And through this discussion, we came to a common conclusion, which is that the state apparatus that we inherited was not even evenly distributed by the number of employees, by the structure of employees, by the qualifications of employees, that it was just one accumulated faceless mass that could hardly give any result. Don't take things too personally. You are always welcome to the National Assembly, you have always come to the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending, and that is, I think I was still the chairman of the Committee on Finance, the Republic Budget and the control of the spending of public funds when we started the process of making a memorandum of co-operation between the Fiscal Council and the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-19-0.u55671	Thank you, colleague Arsic. On the basis of Article 98(4), Rules of Procedure, I'm concluding a unique search. I thank Professor Pavel Petrovic, President of the Fiscal Council and his associates for their participation in today's debate. We continue work tomorrow, Thursday, June 20th, starting at 10:00 p.m. Thank you.
