ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-21-0.u54720	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fifth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 93 MPs attend the session. To determine the number of MPs, please insert your identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 133 MPs are present in the hall and that we meet the conditions for further work. I would like to inform you that today she was prevented from attending the session of Parliamentarian Mariana Marash. We move to a decision on the proposals for acts referred to in points 1 to 15 of the agenda. Dear People's MPs, before we continue to work, allow me to welcome Igor Juric, founder of the "Tijane Juric" Foundation and Ivan Jovanovic, journalist of the "Blica" newsroom on your behalf and on behalf. Dear MPs, the Tijana Juric Foundation, in co-operation with the Blica editorial, launched an initiative to amend the Criminal Code, during which 158,460 citizens' signatures were collected. [[Applause]] Please welcome once again, on behalf of the citizens of Serbia, the founder of the Foundation and to thank the citizens of Serbia for this initiative. I put the draft law on amendments and additions to the Criminal Code, in principle. I conclude the vote: no one, the abstentioned one, voted for – 154, no one. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to the amendments. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marijan Risticevic. I'm putting his proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: for - seven MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I would like to vote on the amendments of Parliamentarian Marijan Risticevic to Article 6. Finalising vote: for - nine MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I would like to vote on the amendments to the Verica Radet amendment to Article 6. I conclude the vote: for – 11 MPs I find that no amendment has been accepted. I am voting on amendments by Aleksandr Stevanovic and Vladimir Djuric to Article 6. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I would like to put the amendments to the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party, on Article 6. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendment to Natasha Sp to vote. Jovanovic to Article 10. I conclude the vote: for – 10 MPs I find that no amendment has been accepted. I would like to put the amendments of Parliamentarian Marijan Risticevic on Article 10. Finalising vote: for - five MPs. I would like to put Ruzica Nikolic's amendments to article 11. I'm closing the vote. I would like to vote on the amendments of Sreta Perić to Article 11. Finalising vote: for – 14 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I would like to put the amendments of Parliamentarian Marijan Risticevic on Article 15. Finalising vote: for - five MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I would like to put to the vote the amendments of Ambassador Alexander Seselj to Article 15. Finalising vote: for – 14 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I am putting to the vote the amendments of Moma Colaković's MP to Article 16. I'm closing the vote. To repeat the vote for the amendment of MP Moma Colakovic, because it shows that no one voted, and the MPs voted. Finalising vote: for – 15 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to the 16th Members of the Verica Radeta. Finalising vote: for – 16 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I would like to put the amendments of MEP Miljan Damjanovic on Article 16. Finalising vote: for - 12 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I put the amendments to the 16th Parliament of the Lord Delic. Finalising vote: for – 16 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 16 of MP Petar Jojic. Finalising vote: for – 18 MPs. I am putting the amendments to MEP 16 of MP Zoran Despotovic. Finalising vote: for – 14 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I am putting to vote the amendments of MP Tomislav Ljubenović to Article 16. Finalising vote: for – 11 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to the 16th MEP, Milorad Mircic. Finalising vote: for – 15 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 16 to the vote Ljiljana Mihajlović. Finalising vote: for – 16 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 16 to the vote Vesne Nikolic Vukajlović. Finalising vote: for – 16 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 16 to the vote Marine Ristic. Finalising vote: for – 16 MPs. I put the amendments to Article 16 to the vote The Mandic boy. Finalising vote: for – 16 MPs. I put the amendments to Article 16 to the vote Miroslav Stankovic Đuričić. Finalising vote: for – 15 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments I do not have Mr. Šarovic on Article 16. Finalising vote: for – 14 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 16 to the vote Alexander Belacic. Finalising vote: for – 16 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 16 to the vote Dubravka Boyic. Finalising vote: for – 15 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 16 to the vote Rose Nikolic. Finalising vote: for – 15 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 16 to the vote Nikola Savic. Finalising vote: for – 16 MPs. I am voting on the amendment of Alexander Seselj to Article 16. Finalising vote: for – 17 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to vote on the amendments of Sreta Perić to Article 16. Finalising vote: for – 16 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 16 to the vote Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Finalising vote: for – 16 MPs. I put the amendments to Article 16 to the vote Philip Stojanović. Finalising vote: for – 16 MPs. I would like to vote on the amendments to the Verica Radete amendment to Article 17. Finalising vote: for – 16 MPs. I put the amendments to Article 18 to the vote Alexander Seselj. Finalising vote: for – 16 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to the vote, which, after Article 18, is proposed to add new articles. 18a and 18b, submitted by Ambassador Momo Colakovic. I conclude the vote: for - seven MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 19 to vote. Marijana Rističević. Finalising vote: for - six MPs. I put the amendments to Article 19 to vote. Mom Colakovic. Finalising vote: for - five MPs. I am putting the amendments to Article 23 to vote. Meet Peric. Finalising vote: for – 17 MPs. I am putting the amendments to article 29, with the correction, Neda Jovanovic. I conclude the vote: for - eight MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 30, with the correction, Neda Jovanovic. Finalising vote: for – 13 MPs. I'm putting the amendments to Article 33 to vote. The absence of Sarovic. Finalising vote: for – 14 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I'm putting the amendments to Article 42 to vote. Believers of Radeta. Finalising vote: for – 17 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting the draft law on amendments and additions to the Criminal Code in general. I conclude the vote: for – 159 MPs, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Criminal Code. I put the draft law amending and supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 140 MPs, against – no one with abstentions is available. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I put the amendments to Article 2 to the vote. Marijana Rističević. I conclude the vote: for - four MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put the amendments to Article 4 to the vote. Believers of Radeta. Finalising vote: for – 16 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 5 to the vote. Alexander Seselj. Finalising vote: for – 15 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 6 to the vote. Meet Peric. Finalising vote: for – 16 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I am putting the draft law on amendments and additions to the Code of Criminal Procedure, in general. I conclude the vote: for - 140 MPs, against - no one, with abstentions, voted 15 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Code of Criminal Procedure. We're going to the third point. I put the draft law on preventing corruption, in principle. I conclude the vote: for - 140 MPs, against - no one, with abstentions, voted 15 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I put the amendments to Article 1 to the vote. Marijana Rističević. Finalising vote: for - three MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put the amendments to Article 2 to the vote. Believers of Radeta. Finalising vote: for – 16 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put the amendments to Article 4 to the vote. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Finalising vote: for – 16 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by the MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to Article 5 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: four MPs voted in favour. No amendment accepted. I put the amendments to article 9 tabled by MP Marijan Riaticevic. I conclude the vote: five MPs voted in favour. No amendment accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 10, which was submitted by MP Gordan Komic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to article 10 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote: for the vote – 15 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. I put the amendments to Article 10 tabled by the MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting the amendments to article 11 tabled by MP Gordana Komic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting the amendments to the 11th vote tabled by the MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I am putting the amendments to the 12th People's MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party, to vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 12, which was tabled by MP Gordana Komic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to article 12 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote: five MPs voted in favour. No amendment accepted. I put the amendments to Article 13 tabled by the MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to article 13 tabled by MP Gordana Comic. I'm closing the vote against one of the MPs. I put the amendments to Article 13 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: for - six MPs. I am putting the amendments to the 16th Amendment tabled by MP Gordana Komic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to put the amendments to the 16th People's MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party, to vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting the amendments to article 16 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I conclude the vote: for -15 MPs. I put the amendments to article 17, which was tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I'm closing the vote: for - three MPs. I am putting the amendments to article 17, which was tabled by MP Gordana Komic. I conclude the vote: no one, against a Messenger of the people. No amendment accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 18, which was tabled by MP Gordana Komic. I conclude the vote: no one, against a Messenger of the people. No amendment accepted. I am putting amendments to the 19th vote tabled by the MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 19, which was tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I conclude the vote: for - six MPs. I am putting the amendments to article 20, which was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. I conclude the vote: for one, against one MP. I put the amendments to Article 20 tabled by the MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 21 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I'm closing the vote: for - two MPs. I put the amendments to article 21 tabled by MP Gordana Komic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 21 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. I'm closing the vote, I'm repeating the vote. I'm closing the vote: 14 MPs. No amendment accepted. I put the amendments to Article 21 tabled by the MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting the amendments to article 22, which was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 22 tabled by the MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 23 tabled by the MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting the amendments to article 23, which was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 23, which was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I am concluding the vote: for - 12 MPs. This amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 24 tabled by the MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 24 tabled by MP Gordana Komic. I conclude the vote: no one, against a Messenger of the people. I put the amendments to the vote, which is added after Article 24 to the name above the member and Article 24a, which was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. I conclude the vote: no one, against a Messenger of the people. I put the amendments to article 25, which was tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I'm closing the vote: for - two MPs. I put the amendments to article 26 tabled by the MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting the amendments to article 26, which was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. I conclude the vote: no one, against a Messenger of the people. I am putting the amendments to article 27, which was tabled by MP Gordana Komic. I'm closing the vote for one MP. I am putting the amendments to the 27th vote tabled by the MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I am putting the amendments to article 27, which was tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote: for - 16 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the title above the member and member 29, which was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. I conclude the vote: no one, against a Messenger of the people. I am putting the amendments to article 29, which was tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I'm closing the vote: for - three MPs. I put the amendments to article 29, which was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. I conclude the vote: for - 16 MPs. I am putting the amendments to article 32 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I conclude the vote: for -15 MPs. I put the amendments to Article 32 tabled by the MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting the amendments to article 33, which was submitted by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: for - one MP. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to article 34 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the title above the member and member of the 35th, which was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. I conclude the vote: no one, against a Messenger of the people. I put the amendments to the vote, adding new members of 35a, 35b and 35v, which was submitted by MP Gordana Comic after Article 35a. I conclude the vote: yes – against a single MP. I am putting the amendments to article 36, which was submitted by MP Gordana Comic. I'm closing the vote: one vote against. I put the amendments to Article 37 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to the vote, adding the name above the members and the new member of 38, which was submitted by MP Gordana Komic after article 38. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting the amendments to the article 39, which was submitted by the SDS parliamentary group, the NS. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to article 41 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: for - one MP. I put the amendments to article 41 tabled by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. Finalising vote: for – 13 MPs. I put the amendments to article 42 tabled by MP Momcilo Mandic. Finalising vote: for – 13 MPs. I am putting the amendments to the 45th vote tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: for - one MP. I put the amendments to Article 49 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: for - four MPs. I am putting the amendments to the 50th vote by the SDS parliamentary group, the NS. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to article 51 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. Finalising vote: for – 16 MPs. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 53 submitted by MP Marijan Risticevic. Finalising vote: for - three MPs. I am putting the amendments to the 57th vote tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. Finalising vote: for - two MPs. I am putting the amendments to the 61st People's MP, Marijan Risticevic, to vote. Finalising vote: for - five MPs. I am putting the amendments to the 65th vote tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. Finalising vote: for - three MPs. I put the amendments to article 69 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. Finalising vote: for - two MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 70th vote by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. Finalising vote: for – 16 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 73, which was tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. Finalising vote: for - two MPs. I am putting the amendments to article 75, which was submitted by the SDS parliamentary group, the NS. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting the amendments to article 77 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. Finalising vote: for - three MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 80, which was submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. Finalising vote: for – 16 MPs. I put the amendments to article 88 tabled by MP Marina Ristic. Finalising vote: for – 17 MPs. I am putting the amendments to article 93, which was submitted by MP Miroslava Stankovic Đuričić. Finalising vote: for – 14 MPs. I put the amendments to article 94 tabled by MP Filip Stojanovic. Finalising vote: for – 15 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 95, which was tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. Finalising vote: for – 16 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I put the amendments to article 96 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. Finalising vote: for – 16 MPs. I put the amendments to article 97 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. Finalising vote: for – 16 MPs. I put the amendments to Article 98 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. Finalising vote: for – 15 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I put the amendments to article 99, which was tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. Finalising vote: for – 13 MPs. I am putting the amendments to article 100 tabled by the People's MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Finalising vote: for – 16 MPs. I am putting the amendments to article 101, which was tabled by the People's MP, Ms. Radet. Finalising vote: for – 11 MPs. You want to do it again? You got it. For - 14 MPs. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 108th vote by the SDS parliamentary group, the NS. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to article 109 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. Finalising vote: for – 16 MPs. I am putting the amendments to the 110th vote by MP Sreto Peric. Finalising vote: for – 15 MPs. I put the amendments to article 114, which was tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Finalising vote: for – 17 MPs. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting the draft law on preventing corruption in general. I conclude the vote: for – 142, against – no one with abstentions – has voted 17 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on the prevention of corruption. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the law on the confiscation of assets arising from the criminal act, in principle. Finalising vote: for – 139 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to the amendments. The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to the 1st Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Finalising vote: for – 16 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by the People's MP, the Prophet of Radet. Finalising vote: for – 17 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Since we have completed our decision on amendments, I am putting to the vote the amendment and supplementation of the law on the confiscation of property arising from the criminal act, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 141 against – no one, with abstentions, voted 16 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the confiscation of property stemming from a criminal offence. We move to the 5th item of the agenda - Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions I am putting to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions in principle. I conclude the vote and find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill in principle with 140 votes in favour. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. I'm putting it to a vote. Finalising vote: for – 16. No amendment accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Natasa Jovanovic. Finalising vote: for – 16. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Finalising vote: for – 10. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. Finalising vote: for – 15. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. Finalising vote: for – 18. I put the amendments to article 5, which was tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Finalising vote: for – 19. I put the amendments to article 6 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. Finalising vote: for – 15. I put the amendments to article 7 tabled by MP Aleksandra Belačić. Finalising vote: for – 17. I am putting the amendments to Article 9, with an amendment, which was submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic. Finalising vote: for – 13. I am putting the amendments to article 10, which was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Finalising vote: for – 19. I put the amendments to article 12 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. Finalising vote: for – 14. I am putting the amendments to Article 13, with an amendment, which was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Finalising vote: for – 17. I put the amendments to article 14 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Finalising vote: for – 17. Since we have completed our decision on amendments, I am putting to the vote the Amendment Bill and the Supplements of the Law on the execution of criminal sanctions, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 139, against – there is no one, the abstentioned, who has not voted – 16 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Penalty. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the loan agreement for the privileged buyer for the Modernisation and Reconstruction Project of the Hungarian-Serbian Railway Connection in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, for the New Sad-Subotic-State Border of Kelebija, between the Government of the Republic of Serbia, represented by the Ministry of Finance as a borrower and Chinese Export-Import Bank as a lender, in general. I conclude the vote: no one, the abstentioned one, voted for – 154, no one. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the loan agreement for the privileged buyer for the E-763, part of Preljina-Požega, between the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which represents the Ministry of Finance, as a borrower and Chinese Export-Import Bank, as a lender, as a whole. I conclude the vote: for – 156, against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, passed the bill. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Financial Treaty of the Partnership for Local Development between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill. I put to the vote the draft law confirming the Financial Treaty – Framework for strengthening the resilience of local infrastructure between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank, in general. I am concluding the vote: for - 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Agreement (Project of Modernisation of the Tax Administration) between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 136, against – no one with abstentions – there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Agreement (Project for the Promotion of Trade and Transport of the Western Balkans with the application of a multi-phase programme approach) between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 136, against – no one with abstentions – there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Agreement (A project to improve e-Government services) between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, in general. I am concluding the vote: for - 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Framework Agreement on Loan LD 1981 (2018) between the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe and the Republic of Serbia to finance the public sector – the improvement of health care infrastructure in Serbia as a whole. I am concluding the vote: for - 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill. Moving to paragraphs 14 and 15. I put the motion for a decision on the election of the President of the Court, in general. I am concluding the vote: for - 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, by a majority of the votes of all MPs, has adopted the motion for a decision. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of judges who are first elected to office as judges, in general. Finalising vote: for – 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision. Allow me to congratulate on behalf of the MPs and on my behalf the elected functionholders of the election and wish them much success in their work. National MP Verica Radeta, at a session on 20 May at 15pm and 54 minutes, pointed to a violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I'm asking you to decide that. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. National MP Verica Radeta, at a session on 20 May at 16 pm and four minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 27(1). Please decide on this injury. I am concluding the vote – no one has joined the vote. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude the fifth session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019. Thank you.
