ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-27-0.u55153	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the Republic of Serbia, the honourable members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I am opening the 20nd special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th session. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 125 MPs attend the session. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please insert your cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I agree that the sittings are attended by 156 MPs and that we have conditions for further work. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have called for today's session to be attended by the President of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic, Prime Minister Ana Brnabic, Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and Director of the Office for Kosovo and the Methodology of the Government of the Republic of Serbia Marko Djuric. Dear People's MPs, please welcome political economic representatives from the territory of the AP Kosovo and Metohija, representatives of the Office for Kosovo and Metohija, as well as representatives of the diplomatic crust attending the sittings. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for the twenty-second special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the Eleventh Assembly, I have established the next Dn e n i r e d the report on Kosovo and Metohija. We're going to work on the agenda. SNS Group Chairman Dr Aleksandar Martinovic suggested that it be in agreement to Article 97(3). The Rules of Procedure have long been discussed, i.e. the time of debate for parliamentary groups is 10 hours. This proposal, of course, is decided by the Assembly without a search. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 155, against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted 24 MPs. I agree that we have accepted this proposal, so that the time of the parliamentary groups is 10 hours, and I remind you that the presidents, or the heads of Parliament, have 20 minutes in the Rules of Procedure. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. We move on to review the Kosovo and Metohija reports. The word is made by the President of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic. Please, Mr. President, speak to us.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-27-0.u55154	Ladies and gentlemen, your Excellencys, the Honorable Presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the Honorable Prime Ministers, our dear representatives of the Serbian people and Serbian institutions from Kosovo and Metohija, honourable MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, I would like, above all, to thank all those present in this room, everyone who wants to talk in a responsible and serious way about the problem that is great and difficult, not only for our people in Kosovo and Metohija, but also for all citizens of Serbia and the continent of the Serbian people. I've been thinking about how and in what ways some have tried to stop me from entering the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but these are too weak attempts and too irrelevant for the citizens of Serbia, and I'm not going to talk about it today. I think the whole debate should start with an answer to one important question, what do we believe in a lie or the truth? Without that answer, we won't eventually know exactly what we're capable of, how much we can, where our borders and our lands and our dreams are, just like our realities. Where is Kosovo, where is Metohija, who runs them, where are we Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija? Could we, who were bombed against Kosovo, killed our children, committed aggression, count on international justice? Who are our friends and do we have the right to enmity with those of whom our future depends largely? Are we friends if we refuse to face the truth? His father also said self-deception is murderous for both people and the people. Are we in Serbia aware of that? That if we deceive ourselves doesn't mean that in the end we'll be able to fool ourselves and that we won't become anything else, that tomorrow we won't have as many Kosovos in Serbia, that we'll stick to our imaginations. So that it's not worth blaming reality, we selectively choose information and try to fit it all into what we want. It is not by chance that the great Isidora Sekulić said – we are a people who do not believe in reality and who do not love reality, until we know it we dream about it, and when it becomes clear to us we underestimate it. We never had faith and love for reality. It's not working, and it's time to choose openly between the sweet lies and the bitter truth. My job as President of the Republic, and I don't always have to love him and I don't always have to be comfortable with him, is to tell people and tell people the truth bitter, sometimes unpleasant and whatever the truth it is. But because of the truth I'm telling, don't even think for a moment that I won't fight for our people in Kosovo and Metohija, for Kosovo and Metohija more than all those who know the truth, and they're deliberately silent and they'd be happy to fight for our people in Kosovo and Metohija, and not for their children and who give us patriotic lectures every day, and no one should be allowed to hold lectures. The long and hard exhausting centuries-old struggle was fought around Kosovo, but we often forget not only about Kosovo and Vojvodina, other parts of today's Serbia. In some of those fights we won, in some of those fights we lost. We were just pretending that winnings were common, normal, and they were nothing new, and we never wanted to accept defeats. Even when we experienced them consistently and in a short period of time. Not one, but like I said, a lot of defeat. Let's briefly consider the historical facts, cross-referenced with simple mathematics, all on the question, who has ruled throughout history the territory that we call KIM today. Since the first century, the sovereign rule of Rome over this territory has been subdued by Ilira and the Dalmatians who have less inhabited this territory and lasted until 395, then by the government of Byzantium for about 550 years. In the seventh century come the Slovenian and Serbian tribes on the territory of today's KIM. From 960 to 1080, there is a power struggle in the territory of Byzantium, different Serbian rulers. Let's take 60 years for Byzantium and the Serbs. Serbian rulers in KIM from 1800 to 1389 from then to 1912, 510 years. Serbs have been ruling the KIM since 1912, Serbs, conditionally saying Serbs, both Serbs and Albanians together, with Albanians not satisfied. By 1999, one way or another since the Kumanovo Agreement, since 1999, has been managed by the International Community and Albanians and by that part of the International Community which has been supporting the creation of an independent Kosovo in 2008. So, if we look back at those 2020s, we'll see that different KIM authorities have changed and we'll see, what's particularly interesting, and I'll now give you these demographic data as the last 120 years have dramatically changed the number of Serbs. According to estimates from 1455 in KIM, today's KIM territory, about 98% of Serbs lived. In 1871, 32% of Albanians, 74 Arbanasa, 64% of Serbs lived. But then comes the Serb Turkish wars, the Berlin Congress, and that is the time in which we most dramaticly lose in the number of Serbs living in KIM and for the first time in 1899, Albanians represent, the Arbanas represent most of the territory in the so-called area. Kosovo's villa, with 48% and Serbs at 44%. How did all this happen? There was a major emigration, a large and difficult persecution of Serbs, and the Serbian state then, after the Serbian Turkish wars and the Berlin Congress, and Stojan Novakovic wanted it to be at the five hundredth anniversary of the Kosovo Battle, for the first time we established our consulate, the Serbian Representation, the Serbian representation in Pristina, the Kosovo Villa, at the Ottoman Empire and our first consul in Kosovo in Kosovo, was Luka Marinkovic, appointed in 1889, and already in 1890, Albanians killed Luka Marinkovic, the first Serbian consul in Kosovo. After Luke Marinkovic, we changed more consuls until 1912. Interestingly, our consuls, probably those who wanted to prevent our arrival here today, called the great traitors, were Branislav Nušić, the first partie, then our consul in Pristina, was also the great Serbian poet Milan Rakic, who was first a scribe and then a consul in Pristina. So, these people made their contribution by protecting the interests of increasingly few Serbs, because until the Balkan wars, we were in no way able to recover, and no Serbian government here in Serbia, dared and could dare in any way organise any uprising on KIM, until 1912, until the Balkan wars, until the Liberation Wars, when KIM was released again. I just wanted to tell you this to see how through the good part of history things have changed, but what's bad data for us, almost catastrophic, comes after World War II. In 48 years and until 53, and in the enthusiasm of the winners, we manage to preserve the number of Serbs in the same percentage that was right after World War II, which is 27% of Serbs and Montenegrins, and 68% of Albanians. But I ask you to listen to the data now and it all lasts until 61, so these 15 years after World War II, we hold the percentage of Serbs compared to the percentage of Albanians. We hold him because we were winners, a large number of Albanians felt like losers, a large number of Albanians left KIM, they went across the Ocean to many European countries, in much greater size than Serbs did, because I repeat, Serbs were mostly anti-fascist, they felt like winners, which was not the case with Albanians. However, by creating the 3rd Prizren League in 1946, Albanians are starting to cause us the biggest problems, and this will be seen as costing us more than the First Prizren League of 1879 and the Second Prizren League "Bali Kombatar", created in 1942 and 1943, because with huge money, huge investments, they have always succeeded at every moment to have significant influence in American foreign policy and through a representative home and through the Senate, therefore, through both homes of congress and through all other executives of the American authorities. What happens then, since 61, shows how we're finally losing ground at Kim's feet. I repeat, in 61, we have 27% of Serbs on KIM, but already in 71, we have 21%. If you look at it, it's more than 25% of our number of Serbs, in relative numbers, fall. So in 81, we already have 15% of Serbs. So, from 61 to 81, from 27% to 15%. Next, in 91, we already have 11%. So, more than twice in those 30 years, we lost in relatively percentage numbers, the presence of Serbs in KIM, so from the '60s to the '90s. And everyone who came to power after the first democratic elections, in the 1990s, had countless problems and no matter what intentions, and I suppose the intentions were best, were in a terrible difficult situation, to save anything with 11% of Serbian living. This has been contributed by a number of problems we have faced. That's what I'm gonna talk about, so now I'm gonna talk about it better than later. So we had bad decisions from the communist authorities. We had terrible bad decisions, first about banning the return of Serbs and Montenegrins to our hearth, but we had bad decisions in 56, which you will not believe, and why today, among other things, we are fighting for that part of Serbia, where it is not the whole north of Kosovo, as some say it belonged to Albanians, etc., or KIM, it is false, it belongs to Lešak from 12 villages, and to be more unfortunate, our people declared to them by plebiscite that they want to belong not to the Raška area, not to central Serbia, but to KIM, and Albanians even to us, and those arguments would never have been revealed to them, and those arguments in the talks with us. So, not to mention that Serbs were having a hard time getting jobs, and to see the situation of the problems we are facing, say in 61, there were about 100,000 Serbian children in schools, in 99, we had 59,000 Serbian children in schools, today we have only 16,000 Serbian children in schools. Just to see the situation of the national disaster our people have gone through. Today in the Balkans, when we talk about a national issue in the Western Balkans, today lives on our precise calculations, I will later present these data to you during the discussion, seven million and 460,000 Serbs. When you ask Serbs they'd tell you nine or ten million, this is the exact number. So seven million and 460,000 Serbs. In Serbia, Republika Srpska and Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro, Croatia, Northern Macedonia, lives today about four million and 70,000 Albanians, when asked, they will say there are six million. Of course, they are not telling the truth, nor are Croatians, when they say that Croatia has 4.5 million, it barely has 3.5 million, etc., but it will soon be seen in 2021. Serbs have a negative natural growth, Albanians have a positive. I will present to you today several important evaluations for a serious discussion and for the seriousness of the report I file. According to the 2015 United Nations, Serbia will have 5.5 million inhabitants in 2050, and in 2100, if the same trends continue, only 3.5 million people. If we calculate the population by 2050 and 2100, at the current rates of Albanian and Serb growth, we come up with the following data for the Balkans. In 2050. The Albanians will be, and later I will give another more serious analysis than this, the number of Albanians will be 1,926,400 more than now. The total will be 5,996,000, so 6,000,000. The Serbs will be 1.222,400 less than today, the total of us will be 6,230,000. In 2100. The Albanians will be 4,936,000 more, totaling 9.006,400, and the Serbs will be 3,132,000 less, the total will be 4.327,000. So unless we change ourselves, if we don't change much about ourselves, there will be 2100 of us, which is just another generation, in 2100, there will be twice as many of us in the Western Balkans as Albanians. Let us add to this unpredictable but very certain emigrations from Asia and above all sub-Saharan Africa towards the areas of Europe and the Balkans. Most refugees are and there will be Muslim creeds, and that wouldn't be a problem for us if we were more open, as it turned out in the previous period if we weren't. So many others will benefit from it, and unfortunately we will not be able to use it. In order to achieve a positive Serb growth over the next 30 years, it is necessary for women to have 3.2 children. If we do not implement major overall changes and various measures, not only will we not be able to talk about Kosovo and Metohija, but we will have little chance of talking about our own survival and in the territory of the rest of Serbia. There are several different scientific studies, I told you one thing, questions are being asked – and why did I talk about this? I wasn't just talking about the cross-section of the situation, which I believe many of you are a surprise, although we've all been hiding it deep down somewhere and we never wanted to talk to each other openly. I was saying this because we have to think about the future, that two different scenarios, and one is normalising relations with Albanians, and I'm talking about what options of normalisation are possible, and the other is that there is no normalisation, that we have either a frozen conflict or a frozen conflict interrupted by occasional conflicts, which would be a completely disastrous scenario for our further demographic movements. What we forgot to say as historical facts that have contributed greatly to the catastrophic state for the survival of the Serb people in Kosovo and Metohija, we forgot to say that we have been under Turkish occupation for nearly 500 years, that at the same time we have been, or call it whatever you want, under Turkish rule, it is no matter that at the same time we have experienced tragic losses in the Balkan wars, terrible losses in World War I and World War II, especially our animal west of Drina and Danube. These were huge strokes of demographic vitality, of which our people never recovered. The additional blow was the wars of the 1990s, human losses, exodus, the exodus of our people from Croatia in 1995, of course NATO aggression in 1999. These are some of the extra external causes of the decades-old depopulation. The causes of the decline in birth and depopulations are, as in other modern European countries, an increase in living standards, as in the richest Belgrade municipalities, the lowest birth rate, between 142,000 abortions per year, emigration and disease. First of all, during today's exhibition, I will talk about migration, about the importance of getting to any one, one day to compromise with Albanians, because that's what we're going to do to close this negative migration balance, by 2030, make an equal migration balance, that means the same number of those who enter our country with those who come out of our country, and since 2030, turn that trend around and ensure that we have more people coming into our country than those who are leaving. As I said, since 1945, in addition to the ban on returning to exiled Serbs and Montenegrins, you have had a year-on-year increase in Kosovo's constitutional powers, with constitutional changes in 1971 and 1974. We have since 1990, with, we thought, a national reconstruction, which was expected and understandable after decades, I would say, silences of persecution primarily by Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija, that we expected to have better results, not getting into the essence of the problem of relations with Albanians, not even entering numbers, not entering what the child could add up, and we were pretending that we couldn't do it. It was a big mistake and the fact that we underestimated the power of the international community, it's a rare euphemism for the most powerful Western countries, but whatever you turn around and whatever we can tell them, and a lot of bad and hard things we can tell them, we had to count better, if not for them, then for ourselves. And we shouldn't have put ourselves in a position to lose more people, to lose the military and the police from our territories, and at the same time to reduce the economic value of the gross domestic product to 50% of what we had in 1989. This reduced Serbia's strength to a minimum, bringing Serbia's strength to the point where we can only wait for charity and what someone else will give us and what someone else will allow us to do. After 2000, when many expected great respect, so-called. democratic forces in Serbia and that this is just a democratic issue, that the West has no other interests and that suddenly Serbia will bring Kosovo back under its control and that it will all be okay in the years to come, everything has happened the other way. It happened that we were surprised by every move that was taking place against us, that in the day we had to give up political and legal continuity, regardless of what was disputed since 1992 and the Badenter Commission, until we had to release convicted and unconvicted Albanian terrorists from our prisons, hundreds of them, and some of them who committed the most serious crimes, such as the Mazrek brothers, who witnessed the crimes of those who are today leading Albanian negotiating teams against the Serb people. Then we tried to lead a policy of frozen conflict, although we also pretended not to see that we were slowly but surely slipping towards Kosovo's independence. I found a memo in the paperwork that we rarely came to, so I'm proud that we're going to leave you all the reports, both to you and to future generations, all the official notes from our conversations and everything we've done in the previous period. We found a letter from Zoran Djindjic to the Security Council, where in February 2003, he well predicted what would happen in Kosovo and Metohija and said they wanted to create an independent Kosovo and that they were all false and lying about what they had told them in the previous period and points to all the dangers. Then the first time we start talking and praying, be careful, but that's 16 years ago, when we were in a tenfold better situation, so 16 years earlier, our representatives start praying, if anything else, that we can get a division, which international representatives refuse, from Cooper, Steiner, to everyone else. We have further, which people forget, why was it important to give up continuity and why did I mention it? We will return to Resolution 1244. In Resolution 1244, there is no talk of Serbia anywhere, only the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia is spoken of, we give up legal continuity compared to the SRJ. Then, in 2006, we are running out of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, thanks to the irresponsible policy we have led here and not telling you that Serbia had to agree to the Venice Commission's decision on 54.46% only when we agreed that only then was the referendum allowed in Montenegro allowed. Not to mention the way we ran the campaign, not to mention the way we weren't able to invest or the money, that we weren't able to be serious. Montenegro's gone, our saints are gone, nothing's gone. The Federal Republic of Yugoslavia has disappeared. They all pretended like nothing had happened. That's why I've been asking some recently - how is it that all our sanctities are sacred, and that the Sharp is not sacred to us? As far as I know, the Sharp is one of our greatest saints, so you've all been silent and pretending to be naive, ignorant, like nothing ever happened anywhere. It's interesting that when it happened in 2006 we didn't have any friends, no one. He knew the Serbian people what they wanted. Serbia was misbehaving. Russia has been pretending not to see what was happening, because it suits them, they thought Montenegro would be a state under their control, silent mostly. Of course, Western forces have helped the secession of Montenegro from the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia at all costs, done everything to weaken Serbia, to leave Serbia alone, so that they can tell the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia no longer and go into the collapse of their stories – standards before status and can say – status before standard, to give Kosovo full independence. I will now, in accordance with the Report, for you to see, remind you of many important dates, a brief chronology of events from 1998 and 1999 to today. A very short chronology with not a lot of comments, to understand how things were going for us worse and worse. In 1998/1999. Washington has appointed Christopher Hill as a special envoy for Kosovo and Metohija. By February 1999, he spoke to representatives of Belgrade and Pristina, offering parties different versions of the solution. They also participated as EU special envoy and Boris Majorski as a representative of the Russian Federation. In February 1999, the indirect negotiations between Belgrade and Pristina in Rambuje, following the blackmail of Western forces, ended in failure. On 22 March 1999, the OSCE observation mission, which acted highly biasedly, has falsified numerous reports and worked directly in favour of Albanians and directly against Serbs, unequivocally, evacuated from Kosovo and Metohija. Only two later, NATO began its aggression against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. On 9 June, following the 78 difficult, terrible days our people went through, a military-technical agreement was signed between KFOR, international security forces and the government of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. On June 10, 1999, the Security Council adopted Resolution 1244 at its 4011th meeting. There are good things in that resolution for us, there are very bad things for us, except we never wanted to read those bad things. One of these bad ones is that our forces have been terrorising Kosovo and Metohija, and that is why it is necessary for international forces to master this area and for our forces to withdraw from the territory of Kosovo and Metohija. In early 2001, following the abolition of the legal continuity with the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the release of Albanian terrorists, then the president of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia tried to launch talks with Pristina's leader, Rugova, but the Pristina team has recently cancelled its participation in a preparatory meeting. The government of Serbia tried the same thing, it wasn't worth it. On November 5th 2001, a joint paper on co-operation between Yugoslavia and UNMIK was signed, confirming the rights and obligations of foreign signatories from Resolution and urging Serbs living in Kosovo to participate in the parliamentary elections of interim institutions in Pristina. In 2003. Zoran Djindjic sends a letter to the Security Council warning them that the creation of an independent state, which is done contrary to Resolution 1244, will lead to disastrous consequences. In 2003, the Russian army left Kosovo and Metohija and we remain only with NATO countries, with representatives of four NATO countries that have won their zones in Kosovo and Metohija. That same year, the principle was established – standards before the status, i.e. that standards were established by a UN decision priority in relation to final status talks. Of course, it was just a scam, it was a game and a transitional solution in which those in Belgrade understood that game. On 29 April 2004, the Serbian government adopted the first plan for a political solution to the situation in Kosovo and Metohija. Meetings were held with Contact Group representatives, with them looking for a way only to die for the Serbian government after "Pogrom" on 17 March 2004, where there was no response from the Serbian state. They were able to do so soon and, as you will see later, on October 7, 2005. The Contact Group, consisting of representatives of the United States, Britain, France, Germany, Italy and the Russian Federation, adopt the principles of resolving Kosovo and Metohija's status, which states that this solution should be in line with international standards, human rights, democracy and international law, as well as contribute to security in the region. On 24 October 2005, the Security Council gave the green light to start negotiations on the future of the Autonomous province. Ambassadors participating in the work supported then-Secretary General Kofi Annan's proposal to start negotiations on Kosovo and Metohija's status. On November 11, 2005, the Security Council appointed former President of Finland, Marty Ahtisaari, as a special envoy. The negotiation process practically started in Pristina 10 days after that. In January 2006, the contact group provides guidelines for negotiations and takes the view that there cannot be a return to the situation before 1999, there can be no division of Kosovo or its accession to a third country. They called on Belgrade to work constructively with the main negotiator, obviously preparing the ground, and therefore you will see why our moves 12 and 13 years later were so important and so successful in preparing the ground to make Serbia understand how and how necessary it is to create an independent Kosovo. From February to September 2006, all those heroes, who many of you have called traitors, were lining up in Vienna for direct talks with Hashim Thaci and other Albanians. Those negotiations have been unsuccessful. On March 17th. In 2006, two delegations discussed the financing of Serbian municipalities and their interconnection with central Serbian authorities, which was presented with different views. At that time, Albanians refuse to form something that we succeed in the Brussels Agreement seven years later, which is a community of Serb municipalities, which we cannot form today because the EU, as a guarantee of implementation of the agreement, has not put pressure on Albanians to implement the agreement. The fifth round of negotiations was dedicated to protecting Kosovo's religious and cultural heritage. It's rated as useful on both sides. On July 13th, Martti Ahtisaari reported members of the Security Alliance during the negotiations and in his intention to organise a high-level political meeting. Then the meetings attended by Boris Tadic, Vojislav Kostunica, Fatmir Saidiu, Agim Ceku. Different attitudes have been expressed. The Serbian side said it is ready for the widest level of autonomy, and Albanians are only independent and nothing else. The eighth, ninth and tenth rounds, which discussed decentralisation, in which Albanians never agreed. At that time, Marty Ahtisaari was ordered, the Contact Group authorised him to start making a comprehensive solution to Kosovo's status. He presented the solution on February 02nd, 2007 and his solution was supervised by independence, although it, implicitly, was not mentioned anywhere, but it was clear in which direction everything was going. On February 13th, one of the few sessions, in connection with those giving lectures when holding meetings of the Serbian Parliament, is being rejected all views of Ahtisaari's proposal that violate Serbia's sovereignty and integrity. Then, from 21 February to 2 March, final negotiations in Vienna are being held to try to bring the positions of the two sides closer. This does not lead to any success and then comes to the final conclusion of Ahtisaari – reintegration into Serbia, Kosovo in Serbia is not the real option, which is why internationally supervised independence is the best possible solution. Then, at the request of Belgrade and Moscow, the Security Council points to a KiM special mission that identified the situation on the ground within four days, as several members of the body expressed reservations regarding the solution Ahtisaari seeks. The United States and EU member states have submitted to the Security Council a new fifth proposal on KIM, which leaves 120 days to us and Pristina, but without agreement, without automation in implementing the Martti Ahtisaari plan. They, faced with a clear threat of veto by Russian, US and five EU members, gave up the process of resolving Kosovo's status in the Security Council, announced further concerns about the process. Then they formed three Ischinger, Wisner and Bocvan Hawchenko. Their appointment began a new round of negotiations. The EU's headquarters in New York then held direct talks between Tadic, Kostunica and Fatmir Sejdiu and Ceku. Belgrade has made its point, Pristina has made its point. What's important is that it all went on until December 10th 2007, until the three negotiators completed their mission. The three are said to have not reached an agreement on future status and that both sides have committed themselves to abstention from violence, which was important at that time. Then we go to December 19th, 2007. It's the finale of everything. The Security Council has not reached any conclusions on the issue of future status and already on February 13th, the Kosovo government announced it will declare independence. On February 14th, the Serbian government decided to annul the illegal acts of the provisional authorities and on 17 February 2008 the Kosovo Parliament so-called. declared independence for the state of Kosovo and during the next few days, independence was recognised by the United States, Turkey, Albania, Austria, Switzerland, Germany, Italy, France, Great Britain, Australia, Poland. In just a year, 84 countries. On February 18th, it is one of the two sessions held in total, a session of the Serbian parliament is held. Do you know how long it's been a day since the Albanians declared independence in Kosovo? How many days, how many weeks, how many months did that session of the National Assembly last? An hour and a half. Over half an hour has been spent at the establishment of the Rules of Procedure. In an hour and a half, we made our decisions and solved the problem. We still had a problem with August 15, 2008. At the time, Serbia's foreign minister, Mr. Jeremic, officially submits a request to the UN General Assembly asking that body to support the resolution of the Republic of Serbia, which seeks the advisory international opinion of the International Court of Justice on the legality of Kosovo's unilaterally declared independence. The court's question reads: "Is Kosovo's independence unilaterally declared by the temporary institutions of self-government in Kosovo in accordance with international law? “ On October 8, 2008, the General Assembly adopted Serbia’s request for the International Court to plead for the legality of the unilaterally declared independence of the so-called International Court of Justice. Kosovo. The only argument when I talk about international law, the only serious argument that Albanians have made at each of our meetings, which you have in each of our official notes, not in the show for television, not in their speeches at the Security Council, is the advisory opinion of the International Court of Justice, at every conversation ten times repeated because someone then thought about himself, their political points, about painting on television, not about the interests of the Republic of Serbia and about the interests of our people at KIM. On 26 November 2008, an opinion of the UN Security Council was adopted, allowing for the deployment of the Eulex mission to KIM, and we agreed in response to the letter from the Secretary-General to bring EULEX to KIM. It was signed by the president of the Republic of Boris Tadic. In July 2010, the International Court of Justice adopted an advisory opinion that unilaterally declared independence so-called. Kosovo is not contrary to international law. Why did I read this to this moment? Because it's important that we know one thing, in 1999 we were defeated by the unequal and impossible conflict by signing, not our soldiers, but we were defeated, the unequal struggle was, a partial political capitulation was signed. Our forces with KIM have been withdrawn. We pretended like nothing happened. Afterwards, we asked for, in 2004, we did not respond to anything, in 2008, by going out on the street one night and not agreeing to the declaration of independence, and in 2008 to 2010, while proceedings were pending before the International Court of Justice, we gave the most powerful arguments to the Albanian side for gaining independence. On 9 September 2010, the Security Council welcomed the EU's readiness to facilitate the dialogue process between Pristina and Belgrade. In 2011 On March 8th, we have the first meeting of Borko Stefanovic and Edith Tahiri. By half of 2012, technical agreements were reached on freedom of movement, home books, customs stamps, catasters, recognition of university diplomas, integrated border management, regional co-operation. What is most important, and for this decision we have in 2011, after three years of opposing the Serb population from the north of KIM, a border was established on Jarinj and Brnjak between central Serbia and 98% of the Serb life of the inhabited north of KIM. What is important, and what I forgot to tell you, therefore, the precise data that we did, I didn't tell you, for 2017, you remember the case when the Albanians arrested the Red Cross people with the support of the EU as well. Since no one wanted to let us count the people in KIM, we did it through the people of the Red Cross and through the KIM Office. We counted all the Serbs living on KIM. For your information that in 2017, today count that for 2,000 people less, 94.998 Serbs lived, of which 47.1% in the northern province and south of Ibra 52.9%. The difference is constantly decreasing, i.e. increasing the percentage of North participation, as it is safer and safer for the population in the north, and it is less safe and less secure, as they also rely directly on central Serbia, do not live in enclaves. When you look at these numbers with numbers from before 1990 and 1991, according to the list, you will see that it is three to four times fewer Serbs than it was then. Albanians, according to what we could count, and somewhere we couldn't get in, but according to our estimates, between 1,162,000 and 1,325,000, no more than that, because they also like to lie, as we like to lie about numbers, so they say there are two million, so you listen to different kinds of fantasies. It's not gonna happen. So they're much less than these numbers, but they're much less than the numbers we're talking about and people need to know. What is very important is that heavy negotiations were under way from September 20th until April 19th 2013, when Ivica Dacic, as prime minister of the Republic of Serbia, signed the Brussels Agreement. It's the first agreement on principles that regulate normalization of relationships. The negotiations on the implementation of the first agreement are then under way by the end of 2013. In May 2013, we agreed on a plan of implementation. What is important, an arrangement was reached in that year on liaison officers and the Kosovo Office is taking over from the domain of the Office's competence for Professional and Operational Affairs in the negotiation process. In total, 40 meetings were held during 2013 with eight of them at high political level and 32 at technical and expert level. I'm telling you all of this as part of the report on our work in the previous period. On 19 March 2014, we agreed a phytosanitary certificate and veterinary and health certificate for finished products. By harmonising these documents in a status neutral manner, an unlimited placement of the products of the central Serbian company in Kosovo has been made possible. From March to September 2014, political dialogue between Belgrade and Pristina stems from local elections in Serbia, as well as from elections and the formation of so-called. "the governments of temporary institutions" in Pristina. On November 14th 2014, we reach an agreement on visits by officials, and later you saw that the agreement was not followed at all, as I would say, absolutely arbitrarily or better used, until they tried to humiliate and beat each other down, disdained the Director of the Office for Kosovo and Metohija, Marko Đuric. We ran the so-called so-called. "negotiations" from energy and telecommunications areas, and an agreement has been reached on the bridge of the so-called bridge. "The Frog's Plan." But as far as that bridge is concerned, that's what I want to tell people here, we've been exposed to pressures all the time, terrible pressures to get through just one central bridge, not a pedestrian bridge to be, not to be open to pedestrians, but to let trucks and cars across that bridge. Whenever we say - you have two more bridges at 50m and 100m from where the buses and trucks and everyone else go, why do you want to enter the central street in northern Kosovo Mitrovica, that's King Peter's street at all costs? We never got the answer. And all the time until today, that's what we're exposed to. The other day when I spoke to the highest European representatives there was -- do something, let go of that bridge. And then we went into reconstruction in northern Kosovo Mitrovica, especially we did a monument, you saw Emperor Lazar, with a view to the bridge, we made special sidewalks, a pedestrian zone, formed, so our people and Mayor Rakic and others, so we did everything because we realized that they wanted at all costs that what is the symbol of the survival of Serbs in that part of Kosovo and Metohija, therefore, to destroy it completely and to take the streets of King Peter with ease. When you take the street of King Peter, Mitrovica is small, only nine square kilometers in total, so, however you turn, there are no Serbs there anymore, and when there are no Serbs in Mitrovica north, there are no Serbs in Zvecan, few who will survive after that Ibarsko Kolašin, Zubino Potok and something more north in Leposavic and Leška. A total of 15 meetings were held during 2014 and all were at technical and expert level. The question was - and why do we participate in these and such conversations? Why did we insist on it all the time? We did it for three key reasons. First, do not forget people, and I regret to remind you, in just eight years, Milosevic's authorities have come to the point that we have had a conflict in Kosovo and Metohija and a fundamental loss of sovereignty in Kosovo and Metohija. In just eight years, the DOS authorities have come from high expectations and high hopes and great promises to the people that everything will change and that we will be loved by these from the West and that they will do everything to bring Kosovo back to Serbia's territorial integrity, we have come to it in exactly eight years that we have received an independent Kosovo, the declaration of independent Kosovo that we have responded to by even giving them legal arguments through the International Court of Justice ruling. Why did I mention this? Because we in a ten times worse situation both without the military and police and with Kosovo's formally declared independence, which has recognised something less, we say a hundred countries, they say 110 countries, then we'll talk about it. So we are trying to bring Serbia back to life, to bring Serbia back to the talks, to return, to preserve peace and political stability first because we no longer have a head to lose. We don't have kids to throw anymore. I guess we never should have. At the same time, while safeguarding political stability, we look to get the country out of bankruptcy, we look to raise the economy, because by raising the economy, you increase the chance for people to stay in our country, not to run from our country. You raise your hopes for a normal life in the future by raising the economy. By raising the economy, you increase all other chances, even a chance to defend your national interests. Would you like me to remind you that we didn't have a de facto army? Do you want me to remind you that we've been cutting off tanks, that we've been destroying arrows for 142 dollars, that I've found them hidden and brought in and said, "renovate resources"? From having one plane that could fly to the fact that today we all have 14 planes of four plus a generation. I'm talking about hunters only. Until this year we get more helicopters than we had, which we bought, than we had in the last 30 years. Do you understand what I'm talking about? We sought time to preserve the land, to preserve the people. You need to talk. Does anyone think it's nice to talk to Thaci? Do you think it's nice for Thaci to talk to me? If I have to tell you, he's worse off talking to me than me talking to him. You have to do this not because you love and not because you like it, but because you love your country and because you know that it gives you time for Serbia. We are on the path of European integration. We want to be a part of the world, to belong to this kind of society about some people going to say, "Why?" Not to talk about democracy and rule of law right now, I'm talking about economics. Sixty-eight percent of our trade is with the EU. Our biggest investors come from the EU. Today, only German companies employ over 60,000 people in Serbia. All that we're exporting, all that today's imports are covered by 79% exports, we're doing it thanks to these companies. We'd be gone. We have done this in the past seven years without losing Serbian heads, raising Serbia's economy and not just losing it, not continuing this trail of loss of everything, we have managed to raise Serbia's reputation in the international community and bring back Kosovo and Metohija, which was the end of the deal, on the table to talk about it again, not with great chances for us, not with sure I can tell you that we're going to get something, but I'm telling you that we can look and ask ourselves a few more questions and still fight. In 2008 and 2010, it was all over. It was all over. That's why we did it. We've come to agreements, and I will especially discuss it in part two when I answer questions about justice, civil protection. In energy, we were exposed to the most difficult pressures, and there you could see all the hypocrisy of the international community. They insisted all the time on the Gazivods and Valac, telling us that because of, now, not to piss off people from the Power Network of Serbia and EPS if I make a mistake in some term and Minister Antic, then perhaps those in some transmission network, that's Elektro Networks, they lose, the Germans are probably losing 32 million a year. For the Germans, 32m euros, you'll agree, and it's not much money. The fact that we are losing 50m euros a month because of their taxis, no one is worried, and Serbia is 200 times richer than Germany. Who cares about anyone, who cares about anyone. This served, above all, to put pressure on our people in the Zubian Strait when they took the Gazids, when they took the roller coaster. Remember, our people in northern Kosovo and Metohija, as well as a good share of our companies' electricity wages of 11%. So people don't pay for electricity. Our losses to electricity are in northern Kosovo about 150 million a year, only to keep that in mind and that all people in Serbia should know, because we are trying to facilitate the survival of our people, we are trying to make their lives easier. That's why we reward them with a "Kosovo supplement", so Master Leška and Kosovo Mitrovica has a significantly higher salary than the one in Sombor, Belgrade, Leskovac, Kragujevac and any other place. That's the stuff we do, too. Then, of course, games begin around the Serb community. The Albanians understood what it was that we were doing. I'm not even gonna hide it. We care about the Serbian people, to care as president, not to get angry with anyone, about the people of the Kacanics, the most powerful cell of the Islamic State in the whole world, nor can I want to. Those who lie to worry about it may still lie to our people. I care about the Serbian people, I care about other Serbian citizens who see Serbia as their country and who want Serbia to take care of them. And, about the Cavalry, the Globe, the Suvoj River and the Shimlje, to tell you the truth, I'm not particularly interested in what's going on out there. They understood that we, in fact, want to fully institutionalise the Community of Serb municipalities between our people in the south and the north, four municipalities from the north with six municipalities in the south. We even asked for it, and it was accepted by Albanians, so we gave up, that in particular the Municipality of Priluže, Plemetina, because Priluje belongs to Vučitrn, Plemetina belongs to Obilić, and Babin Most, too, so we wanted to make one municipality out of it. It was our intention, no matter the authority. We've been looking for surveillance functions, executive powers. They say, "You can't have executive authority." Then they gave up everything. Their only obligation under the Brussels Agreement was not met. One, the only one they had didn't meet, because someone allowed them not to, because they had great powers, European powers, and the United States said – you are allowed to fail. Here, it's been six years, they haven't fulfilled it. As it has now been, how many, over 200 days since we've been brought in taxes and no one's worried. It serves them in one day, for one meeting, as no one is concerned that today they are announcing the formation of a great Albania and no one is going to react. One word from us that we said, if God didn't, one of us mentioned the Republic of Serbia or anything, metaphorically speaking, would have hung us in Brussels. Is that fair? Well, it's not. Is that fair? Well, it's not. Is that showing double standards? Well, it shows. So, what do we do? Well, let's keep fighting, understand that that's how things are and keep fighting in the best way possible. A total of 46 meetings were held during 2016. In 2017 we held a total of 14 meetings. Then comes the 2018 event. They understood the Albanians, he understood the Western world, which mostly recognised Kosovo's independence, that Serbs, however hard they are, are bound by the European way, however much they want to move faster, cannot easily convince all the untruths they are trying to sell to them, and with the fact that Albanians do not have to fulfill anything. And then it happens, elections are being discussed for the city of Belgrade, where many expect a change of government and it is the beginning of the end of the hateful Vucic regime and I don't know what it is. Oliver Ivanovic, one of the leaders of Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija, was killed in Kosovo's Mitrovica that day, a political opponent of the Serb list. In the last 20 days, you have been able to see three texts in significant Western media that have said that this particular murder may have contributed to the destruction of the idea of demarcation, of anything, of any Serbian dream that Serbs could gain something from the territory of Kosovo and Metohija. I later prepared a piece of the material, I believe there will be questions, so we'll talk about it. At that time, we are facing a fierce orchestrated campaign, jointly carried out from various Western centres of power, with those who interact in the domestic public and, of course, with the strongest role of Albanians and Albanian media. They are doing so with the following desire and intent – to fully criminalise our people in Kosovo and Metohija, especially Serbs from northern Kosovo and Metohija, because they did not want to allow more significant interference of Albanians with that part of Kosovo and Metohija, and they had to run the most severe campaign against them, and they knew who killed and how he killed, and as you can see, it was the last year and how many, six months, they knew nothing. They have no idea. They were making it all up. They were bringing people in. People are being held in custody today based on statements made to Serbian media, politicians from here, politicians from the Sava Wreath that falsely appear to be politicians from Kosovo. They did all this to weaken the defence of the Serb people in northern Kosovo, to make northern Kosovo an easy target for all of them, because by that time it was a very hard nut for anyone who tried to enter Kosovo Mitrovica. Today, the north of Kosovo is a much easier target for them, a common success and actions by Albanians, that is, all Albanians, the good part of the Western forces and one part of Serbian politics. That's what they've done so well. I congratulate them on that, but I warn them all together that they have never been able to weaken the Serbian people in the entire province, nor the Serb people in the north, that we may not be able, and I will deliberately say we are not, because it will not be an independent response to our people from the north, but to our entire people if anyone tries to physically endanger them in any way. The 2014 pogrom will be no more. On 21 November 2018, we receive customs fees in Pristina of 100% on goods from BiH and central Serbia, which is both directly contrary to the spirit of dialogue and the CEFTA Agreement and the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. I don't have to tell you that apart from a statement and a correct relationship, I have to admit, Federica Mogerini and Johannes Han, no member states, nor the European Union has done anything against the Albanian side for such a thing. A total of 24 meetings were held during 2018. We had a recent summit in Berlin where Chancellor Merkel and French President Emanuel McCron tried to convince Albanians to withdraw their taxes. They failed because they had someone's more powerful protection. I told them that at the beginning of the conversation. They didn't believe me. They said, "Wait, Alexander, you'll see that we have a result." I want to let you know about it. That's what I laughed about. I told them – you won't have a result, because someone stronger than you told them not to accept it no matter how much you insist on it. After an hour, McCron told me, Alexander, you were right, whatever we do, they won't accept. So it's about something that's the plan. Why is that a plan? Why did they do it and what do they do? They're doing one very important thing, and that's to get us into a situation called the so-called. new normalities, because they're allowed to. Whatever they do, whatever nonsense they make, a million times to talk about big Albania, to go into concrete steps to create great Albania, remove border checkpoints, crossovers, release from customs, anything else they do and all charges to introduce us, whatever they make, will say, someone will issue a statement between the International Community after two days -- it doesn't matter, let's see how we're going to make Serbia recognise Kosovo's independence finally and formally, it's all over, Kosovo is independent, we're left with that part of how Serbia and formally recognise Kosovo's independence. We will reject any idea with which Serbs come about changing borders, and by changing borders, they mean that the borders of the state of Kosovo are invulnerable, unique and that no one can move them left or right. They did not have Serbia's borders unscathed in 1999, or in 2006 or Yugoslavia, or in 2008, but after that, all borders became non-injurious. When they tell you -- you'll open Pandora's box, what the different representatives of the Serbian political scene talk about, whenever you remind them that Pandora's box is open much earlier, they're free of what you remind them of, they're up to the truth, and they're up for the seriousness of the arguments, and there's no big philosophy. Why was this dialogue important, since this is called a report on both the dialogue and everything that's been going on? He has worked in full terms for interests and Serbian, and I believe, the Albanian sides, but with certainty the Serbian side, because it is important that we reach peace and agreement with Albanians and because of what I was talking about, because it will be the two largest nations in the Western Balkans in the next 100 years. We managed to preserve peace in Kosovo and Metohija during these negotiations and dialogues. There was a small, very small number of severely wounded, killed, not counting Oliver Ivanovic, almost not in international conflicts. Is it small success, and after Kosovo's declaration of independence, not before, not while we had some kind of competence and authority in Kosovo and Metohija? That's what we did with conversations and smart politics. During intensive talks, there were no more serious security crises. We were always in security crises when the talks, when the dialogue stopped. The correlation between the absence of negotiations and the harmonisation of security opportunities directly points to the conclusion that dialogue was useful for all parties and that it was the only way to ensure lasting peace. The third important conclusion concerns the fact that Serbia's engagement in political dialogue obviously succeeded in partially amortising the absolutely uncompromising position of supporters of so-called. Kosovo's independence and that today, if you read both Edgar Joseph and many others, who are certainly not objective, but directly against us, even 19 times speak of Serbia's president and the Serbian leadership who must be forced to make certain decisions. You did not have such texts in 2007 or 2008 or 2009. Everything was going just like they expected it to be. Given that they are increasingly demanding that negotiations find a comprehensive permanent solution to the Kosovo and Metohija issue, it is clear that these partners no longer consider it so-called. Kosovo independence simply, a done deal. Serbia will have to be heard. Serbia's voice will have to be respected. Will we be able to get everything we want and everything we dream of? Of course not. Whoever told you that would lie to you with a lot of liars in Serbia. I'm not going to be like that, even though tomorrow you first shifted me out of here, then the people in the referendum, it doesn't matter to me, but we're going to get a lot more than we had in 2000 and 2008, and I'm absolutely sure and totally convinced that we could continue this dialogue. The fourth important conclusion is that the Republic of Serbia has basically managed to fully protect its interest in the province and in the context of European integration. Despite criticism related to the alleged surrender of the Spanish institutions, Serbs are in northern Kosovo and Metohija in particular, Serbs in the area are now absolutely dominant in all institutions, which was not the case until 2013. Remember, those who speak of justice, I would tell you one thing, imagine that someone raped a Serbian girl, a girl in Kosovo and a Metohija, and what could we do? To press charges in the King, depending on whether it happened in the north or in Vranj, that we do not have the possibility of chasing rapists in any way? We have thus opened up the possibility that we have both influence, and at any moment to make you understand, these people who have agreed to work within the Kosovo system are so loyal to the Republic of Serbia and the Serbian people, that if the Serbian List and political representatives made a decision that they would all withdraw, with a small one, even though it is pleonasm, but you will allow me to use it, an exception would remain in those institutions. Serbs would come out immediately, but they are using every opportunity to provide essential justice, in the extreme line, because 98% of Serbs live there, the domination of Serbs, but at the same time to ensure the protection of Serbs in Gracanica, and in Strpc, and in Ranilug, and in Šilov, and in Klokot, and in Pasjan, and in Partesh and Metohija, where our people are at risk, both in Osian, and in Djurakovec, and Klina, both in Gorazdevec and in Velika Hoca, Orahovac and every other place where we have several Serbs to several hundred Serbs. It was the only possible way. How would we protect ourselves if it wasn't for that Serbian move in Big Hotch, who was robbed by someone who was raped by a daughter, who was injured by someone? How would we protect him? Drones from the air arrested the perpetrators? How? In what way? It's easy to talk about us from downtown Belgrade having the right to wait a million years for something. These people live there every day and have to live every day and live with Albanians every day and someone had to give them protection. I believe that everything we have done in the dialogue process has brought very tangible benefits to the Serbian people, the state of Serbia as a whole, and I particularly think that through these 188 meetings we have managed to protect the reputation, the reputation of the Republic of Serbia, that we have managed to preserve the interests of our people and to dramatically slow down the outflow of our lives from Kosovo and Metohija. We have also managed to reject certain agreements that have not been signed, which would mean a dramatic collapse of the Serbian national interests and state interests of the Republic of Serbia. What is important to us, too, and that is why Pristina has made a decision on taxes among other things, there has been a serious spread of trade between central Serbia and Pristina, and we have come to an extent that exports, as they say, or trade with Pristina, have crossed 550m euros annually, and what they have sold to us or, as they say, exports to central Serbia have been at 20m euros. Just for someone to tell me that we've been doing the wrong thing and we've been taking the wrong policy. That is why many of you are silent from the world, because they don't care that Serbia is damaged, because they want to see Serbia economically weaker. However, we do not complain to anyone that our GDP is 0.3% or 0.4% lower, we do not complain to anyone. We want to be the best, the strongest, the strongest, whatever, and we will be. What's important is that we've managed to do a good part of helping and doing everything we can to protect our objects from cultural and historical significance, and they'll see later, because I'm going to present precise figures, how much in money to help our church, our monasteries and all other objects of great historical importance. What did Pristina do? I don't like to talk about the guilt of Pristina and speak ten times as often as Thaci, Haradinaj, Happy and all their representatives who unfortunately see the enemy in Serbia. We see in them people with whom we are forced to build peace, to build good and normal relations with Albanians in the future. That's why we try not to answer every stupid thing we hear from Pristina. We try not to pollute further relations between Serbs and Albanians, but to see that we slowly raise trust between our peoples, which is not easy, which is almost impossible, especially in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, but is important for the future. However, it is my duty to point out to you today the following facts. If we had been exposed from the beginning to different kinds of pressures and tricks, from demarcation between Kosovo and Montenegro, and then demarcation between Kosovo and Serbia, which would have been normal, and now a grand success in demarcation between Kosovo and Montenegro. Any demarcation in which we would participate would mean that we de facto recognised Kosovo's independence. All the time from the beginning to the day today, we were pressured to participate in this. Then we were pressured to welcome the demarcation between Podgorica and Pristina, which is also just a little bit more twisted that we also managed to refuse before European representatives. They've made countless unilateral moves and I'm going to tell you now what it's all been in the past few years, especially in the last two years. The prime minister of the interim institutions in Pristina said in June 2018, he sent open threats to the war if Kosovo and Metohija's status talks come up with a solution that is not at the will of the Albanian side. It was reiterated by the president of Pristina's provisional institutions, who said they won once already in the war with NATO's help, will win again if necessary. Then, as head of the negotiating team comes Fatmir Ljamaj, you know, more than I do, so they bring us a man of war criminal, they want to humiliate us and tell us -- now you have to sit down and talk to him, and we're not in a position to choose who we're going to talk to, he's the choice of Albanian representatives. People from the international community, they're not squeamish. If they cooperated with them, if they kept silent on 17 dead witnesses, the last of whom were killed at a pedestrian crossing in Podgorica, and you kept your mouth shut and didn't condemn them for the most severe crimes, which would be loathsome to something like this. Then three times in the previous year, they violated the Police Agreement, violated the security of Serbs by illegal incursions of their paramilitary and parapolitan units in the north of the province. It's FIT and ROSU units. Pristina, as I said on November 21st, introduced 100% fees on goods from central Serbia. Then they are under five: Pristina has determined that for all goods coming from central Serbia, the invoices indicate that the destination of the Republic of Kosovo, marked by the origin of goods found in the sale of Kosovo and Metohija, has fully introduced discrimination on Serbian products. Under six: Pristina illegally abolished state border control with Tirana, our border towards the Republic of Albania and allowed free movement, most directly violating Resolution 1244. Under seven: formally in co-operation with the Republic of Albania, they declared their goal to seek the creation of a great Albania in the Balkans. You think someone really got excited? They tell you when you tell them. I don't even speak to you anymore, to tell you the truth, but it's my duty to pass it on to you, to all Western representatives, to those who have recognised independence. When you say that, they say, yes, it's not a good statement, but what do you need? Then there is no more great Albania, no more anything, just so that we Serbs don't get anything anywhere. Eight: Pristina has made an illegal decision on the creation of so-called Kosovo's military, supported by all Western forces, although the decision was made against the will of even NATO, was a correct NATO Secretary-General Jan Stoltenberg and the opposite of even the Constitution, a "treasury" so called. the countries of Kosovo. They don't care if it does anything against Serbs, and they'll do it for both their acts and everything else. Nine: Pristina has unequivocally abundanceed the implementation of the agreements reached in the dialogue, particularly with regard to the Serb municipality community. Ten: In that bridge agreement that we signed, it had to be clear to separate south from northern Mitrovica, because it was our only way to save ourselves. There are many more people living in southern Mitrovica than in northern Mitrovica. To understand here, every unification of the city, as they call it, is near the Serbs in the north, near northern Mitrovica. That's why we asked for special demarcation in Dry Doll, and it had to be achieved by agreement. The Albanians refused that too, the only thing important was to get into King Peter's street with trucks and their flags and nothing else. Eleven: Pristina authorities are recently adopting so-called The statute "Trepce", operationalised nationalisation and kidnapping of the property of Serbian business entities. Twelve: Pristina has publicly threatened and imposed new legal restrictions through institutions on dialogue and the election of Tib, but then they also talked about "Trepci", Gazivod and everything else. Thirteen: Kadri Vesenji, head of Pristina's parliament, asked for support for the policy and measures taken towards Serbia and Serbs, as well as regional unification against what he said, Vukica, urging Montenegro and Northern Macedonia to join them and Albania, of course, in the fight. In this regard, he also expressed his willingness to come to a solution, which is needed, with a new war in which he himself is willing to participate. Then, the prime minister of the provisional institutions of Haradinaj replaces the legitimate representatives of the Serbian people and brings friends, godfathers, personal sprawl friends, servants who serve only him and Albanian interests. Fifteen, Pristina under the so-called The mysteriously infused indictments of arrests Serbs for alleged war crimes, contrary to Resolution 1244, which requires that the KIM create conditions for the safe and secure return of all displaced and evasive persons, prevents this process. By the way, KIM is the territory that has returned the smallest number of refugees from all crisis areas, all crisis hotspots around the world, 1.9%. Nowhere in Myanmar, Rohinge Muslims have a much higher rate of return. Nowhere does anyone have as low a rate of return as the Serbs do. Of course, there are also our faults, there are also the fact that it's much nicer for people to be in Belgrade or to be in Belgrade or to be, it's better and it's normal for their children to be safer than it is for them to be down among Albanians who attack them every day, but there are also daily pressures that are almost impossible to resist. The assembly of interim institutions in Pristina passed a resolution on Serbia's alleged genocide. Without any evidence, data on allegedly thousands of killed Albanians, tens of thousands of raped Albanian women were presented to the entire world public, and the denials were almost unpublished, a video from a porn film meant to show that Serbs raped Albanian women and that was done by Flyora Brovina, a member of the ruling party, otherwise released from a detention unit in Nis in 2000, by the decision of the political authorities, not the judicial authorities of the Republic of Serbia. Given all of the above circumstances and facts, it is clear that Pristina does not want real dialogue at this time. Whether they want it, it's much more a question for their Western mentors than it is for them. What's important to us, and why did we say one thing? It's precisely because of the creation of this new normality that they say we won't accept at any cost and agree to continue the dialogue without abolishing taxis. Why did we say that? What kind of deal do you people want? You're in no condition to cancel your fees, and it was agreed in 2006 that Cefta had no such taxis. And watch out, in 2008, you're doing an anti-legal secession, illegally hijacking part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia is not introducing taxes in 2008, we're not tearing down the Cefta Agreement in 2008, whoever's in power. In 2018 you are introducing taxes because you do not like that you did not become a member of Interpol or any other international organisation. And the whole world keeps quiet about it. Now the question is asked, and they say, "We are guilty, for we are the condition of dialogue." Wait, and how are we going to achieve, in what way we will reach an agreement, if we are unable to reach a free trade agreement, which is implying that there is also a Stabilisation and Association Agreement signed with the EU. Our only condition is to cancel the fees, we'll continue the dialogue. We didn't have any objections to Mrs. Ashton's behavior or to Mrs. Mogerini's behaviour, we knew in how difficult our working conditions were. Once these pressures were terrible, if you are interested, I can say that we are asked to support the entry into the UN of Kosovo in the Brussels Agreement. It was already almost done. How do we accept that regional police in the north are made up of 68% of Albanians, 32% of Serbs, not 98% of Serbs like today, so I must say, I think we have managed very bravely to refuse and preserve that kind of Serbian domination, at least in that part of KIM. But I think that we have succeeded, all in all, when it is analysed, to preserve peace, to preserve stability, not to diminish but to increase Serbia's reputation, to dramatically improve the economy, to increase Serbia's GDP by seven billion for this short time, seven billion to increase Serbia's GDP, to reduce the public debt between 50% and 51% of GDP by 78%, 79%, after the severe crisis in which we had to scrape out of the fire, to reduce unemployment. Today I received official data, the lowest unemployment rate for the first quarter of 12.1, expect when seasonal work is even below 11% unemployment rate. We are approaching EU countries on this issue. Salaries, from an average of 329 euros to 462 euros, came. We have seriously increased pensions after difficult years for pensioners and thank them for what they have managed to endure. We managed to do all of this, strengthen, strengthen our army because we had peace and because we had dialogue and because this dialogue was a political weapon for us to ensure Serbia's economic progress and to ensure a different and more successful, both economic and social and political future for our people. What is important to me to inform you, we succeeded, it was our job of course, from 2014 to 2018, to prevent the entry into nine international organisations so-called. Kosovo, UNESCO, the World Customs Organisation, Interpol, the International Wine and Wine Organisation, the European Student Union, the European Radio-Difuze Union, the International Organisation of the Supreme Audit Institutions, the European Network of Operationally Portable Electricity System, which is very important, which is very important, and this saved us around the Valace and the Gaza Strip, the International Aviation Association. In the period from 2014 to 2018 for the first time, therefore, despite the fact that we are coming at an incomparably difficult time than it was in 2000 or 2007 before independence. So 13 countries withdrew recognition of Kosovo, the Solomon Islands, Suriname, Burundi, Liberia, Papua New Guinea, Lesota, Commonwealth, Dominica. So, admitted on 11 December 2012, he withdrew on 2 November 2018. Grenada on 26 September 2013, admitted, on 4 November 2018, to withdraw recognition, the Comoros, Madagascar, Palau, Guinea-Bissau and Sao Tome and Príncipe. The countries that have recognised them since 2014, you will see, there are twice as many, by 2018, are Tonga, Singapore, Antigua and Barbuda, Togo, Bangladesh and Barbados. It's possible that it's my fault for Antigua and Barbuda, because I haven't been able to make the interviews we've already planned, and I haven't been able to forgive myself until today. Pristina has brought various measures to disrupt the functionality of Serb municipalities on KIM and ethnically motivated attacks between 2014 and 2018. They work all the time to change the ethnic structure in the south, especially in the municipalities of Gracanica, Novo Brdo, Klokot, Strpce, Ranilug and Partesh, and of course try to find mechanisms for attack and full control of the north. This is done in the following ways, by jeopardising the security of the Serb population, by pressure from criminal groups, robbery, intimidation and attacks in order to strengthen the emigration of Serbs, the arrest and prosecution of local Serb officials and more prominent Serbs under the pretext – the fight against corruption and organised crime, in order to break up unity, the cause of conflict among Serb political leaders. So I want to thank the people of the Serb list, who managed to maintain unity and Serbs from the Serb list and in Strpce, and in Gracanica, and in Klokot, and in Kamenica, and in Partesh, and in northern Kosovo for never letting them share them in any way. It's a big deal. I just want you to know something dear friends, these are people who support the most terrible pressure on a daily basis, both Albanian authorities and foreign representatives of those countries who have recognised an independent Kosovo. They are good at talking to them, if they want to say – Vukic is a bastard and if they want to say – as far away from Serbia as possible. The second they say - we respect Serbia, we respect its institutions and its organs and organisations, they no longer have any contact with them and they become their, believe it or not, political opponents. These people have managed to endure all of this, never ashamed of their countries of Serbia and their loyalty to the state of Serbia and the respect they show to the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia. They keep our people in KIM, not those who call for a vote for Gonja Ceaushi, only to harm the Serbian people in any way. Half an hour, 40 minutes, I'm done. (Vojislav Seselj: Come to the dawn, shall we drive? I'd last till dawn, but you can't sit till dawn, I know you. Show some patience. Buying houses and property from Serbs and their permanent eviction. Buying the most valuable properties in important locations for the Albanian's plan to settle. Construction of cottages at weekend settlements and on the edges of larger municipalities, as well as a major change in the application of residence at a suitable time. Listing the Albanian population from voter lists of border municipalities with the Albanian majority and enrolling them in the polling lists of the population with the majority Serb population. Based on the data available, the total number of ethnically motivated attacks recorded, between 2014 and 2018, 465. That's a lot of attacks. But if you had in mind, just ten years earlier in the same period, it was almost triple the size. So we still managed to do something. A large number of robberies, destruction of property, 150 were observed. The attack on cultural and historical monuments, religious objects and cemeteries, 45. Prognosis, threats, 118. Physical assault, 62. Stone house, vehicles and faces, 30. Funding in the area of cultural heritage protection and assistance of the Serbian Orthodox Church in the AP KIM territory from 2014 to May this year. In view of the invaluable historical, spiritual, national, cultural importance, we finance SPC facilities on AP KiM territory, we do their recovery, adaptation, reconstruction, revitalization, reconstruction, construction, painting, duborez, equipment, editing, rounding and land-building of SPC properties. We did, but since you have it in the report, that I would not take up your time, from making a church mobilizer in the duboresis in the Gracanica monastery, buying a property close to the monastery, rehabilitation and reconstruction and roof at the Church of St. Emperor Uros in Uroševec, internal lighting in Gracanica, complete renovation of Banjska, St. Cosma and Damjan in Vrače, Sokolica, Pećke Patriarchia, more work of Gorioc, purchase of plots in Velika Hoca. A lot of what we did in Sušica, and in Prizren's religion, Sočani, in all places. In total, since we are reporting, MPs and people need to know about every penny, this is from the office's budget for... People's MPs are getting it. I think it's important that people hear this. The total funds allocated outside of the current budget reserves from which we have allocated two more million euros, the dinar funds of course, for these 56 most important projects for churches and monasteries, are 417 million, around three million and 753 million and 800 000 euros. Another 2m euros over the current budget reserve. So, big, huge money we invested in our spiritual and cultural heritage on KIM, never again in the previous period. The most significant investments in infrastructure, economic development, agriculture, education and health. Even if you look at the KIM Office budgets, you'll see that today it's twice as big as it was five years ago, and that from the current budget reserve, thanks to better budget balances, we're spending a lot more money than it was before. The construction and reconstruction of 1,613 housing units for internally displaced persons, returnees and socially endangered households amounting to one billion 445 million 678 thousand dinars. 554 individual housing facilities were built for returnees, internally displaced and socially endangered at the height of 194 million 370,000 dinars. 522 residential units were built, 29 buildings, with security and location equipment for construction of 1,051,466,000. Help was provided in construction material for 2,284 households. The total value is 199,842,000 dinars. What you're about to see, which is very important, we've been doing a reconstruction and a recovery of 27 kilometers of roads and streets, eight road facilities, four dumps. What is important, capital, we believe that for Vidovdan, we will be able to open a regional water line in northern Kosovo, that you will be able to see the Paradise Bath complex in Banjska, Zvecan, for which we have singled out nearly 500,000 dinars so far. So, both the hotel and the accompanying facilities, the pools and everything else, it's literally going to be a small paradise for all the people in Serbia who want to go there and we're going to have to put another 200,000 in particular this year. Agriculture development programmes support over 1,300 agricultural households of 468,519,000 dinars. Realisation of crops in return communities in the municipalities of Klina, East, Pec, Vučitrn, Prizren, Novo Brdo, Urosevic, Serbian and Orahovac. In Serbia, of course, only in Banja, where Serbs live, did we not go to Serbia or, as Albanians call it, Skenderaj, there is no Serb there. So it's worth 183,426,000. Otherwise, just so you know, when they cheated on us in VAT vomit, those people who were uneducated, and the thieves, they're cheating on the state on VAT vomit, I guess it looked like a Serbian topon to them, so they wrote they were registering the company and doing business in the Serbians. As soon as we saw it, we'd know that people were robbers, and that's how we arrested them. Two breweries were also built on Zvečan municipality territory with 42,500,000 dinar funds. A donation was provided for 105 of the most endangered agricultural households in the form of cattle supply, 79 juniper, 359 sheep, 22 goats, agricultural machinery and livestock food. The total funding for agricultural development is 899,682,000 dinars. What is very important, the big news, in North Mitrovica tried to stop Albanians at all costs, is the return settlement of Sunny Valley in Mali Zvecan, in the amount of 1,433,894,000, there will live around 350 families between 1,200 and 1,500 people. I've personally visited the Sun Valley twice, it looks magnificent, it looks beautiful, it's in a strategic place between Mitrovica and Zvecan, it's basically guarded, it's supposed to be the west side of Mitrovica. Anyway, I think it's going to be something where we can also get the first people to move into those facilities to see already for Vidovovday this year. We have invested in Serbian media in Kosovo and Metohija. Here is the information I was talking about, in 1999 59,245 students attended in Kosovo and Metohija, today it is 16.826, of which 11.482 attended primary and 5.344 in secondary schools. We have a total of 103 schools. All schools, all professors, all teaching activities are funded by the Republic of Serbia, and I'm saying this because of the lies I've been listening to, even in places where I didn't expect it, where some holy faces have told me about how we no longer fund Serbian schools. Schools in Kosovo and Metohija are the only ones who finance. So, it's just us financing them and it's just us paying for everything, and teaching activities and teachers, teachers, teachers, and it's our job and we're gonna keep doing it. We finance, of course, preschool institutions, here we have 3,239 children deployed into 108 groups. What is important is that the support of the returnees' families totalling 202.496,000 dinars is also granted. It is also important to point out that we financed the work of the National Kitchen at that time at the height of 116,382,990 dinars. We also funded a Red Cross programme, a municipal organization of 228,000. For the purpose of affirming population policy in the reporting period, financial assistance has been paid to families with newborn children in total for 5.410 babies, a total of 54.100,000 dinars. We have secured from the current budget reserve in 2018 and 2019, therefore, this is in addition to what I told you from the budget of the Office which you have adopted here for Kosovo and Metohija, so to define 19 projects in the territory of AP Kosovo and Metohija of 2,481,000,000. So that's an extra 20.2m euros with all that. We also adopted in October 2018 documentation for 40 projects in which we should invest money of 2,455,000. The government's proposal for a conclusion is now being drawn up, and I am grateful to Prime Minister Ana Brnabic for this very much, which plans to approve the financing of the implementation of 233 projects. So we entered the biggest investment phase in Kosovo and Metohija, making project technical documentation for 11 projects totaling 6,683,000,000. The implementation of all projects would require 11 billion funds, so around 90m euros. So I'm just telling you, and you're going to look at it later, it's our reckoning that somewhere, counting the electricity losses, our investment of about 350m euros and with all the investments, our investments in Kosovo and Metohija go over 560m and 570m euros annually. I think that shows our concern, but not just concern, thus showing that we are both liquid and financial Solvency and that we have managed to have money much more than ever to help the survival of our people in Kosovo and Metohija. Of course that's not enough. Of course there are no pink things for us and good situations in Kosovo and Metohija. When I say about us, for those of us who always and at all times think about sharing the fate of our people in Kosovo and Metohija, who have not tied our future and the future of our children to London or Frankfurt, or to New York, or anywhere else, but to Serbia and hope that Serbia and such Serbia can be more successful in the future. Could we have been able to prevent many of these things that today have negative consequences and that we face? Could we also prevent the creation of a border on Jarinj and Brnjak? Not easily, but our resistance could and had to be incomparably stronger, more serious, it had to be much more attention. Finally, we brought in documents to see who initialled them, which I will show to all of you in the course of the debate, because they have spread all kinds of lies and told lies. But what's the point, that's that we seem to have made a lot of mistakes, and when we transferred the entire case of Kosovo and the Security Council to the European Union. We have given arguments to this independence to the incoherent and irresponsible issues that we have raised to the International Court of Justice. Could we react differently and more responsibly on March 17, 2004? We could have. Could we have acted differently in 1998 and 1999? We could have, and I'm not running away from my own responsibility in all this. Did we have to act completely different, smarter, more serious and more responsible in 2008 when self-proclaimed independence of Kosovo was declared? We had to do much better, much more and much different. But I don't want to bring today's debate down to who's to blame. The loss of our, the loss and rights of our people and the control of our territory by some others belonging to the Republic of Serbia is a great loss. And the defeat of all of our policies from the past centuries and decades and years will not be annulled, changed only by simple condemnation. The time that's gone forever won't bring back any finger pointing. It is important that all of us here, including those who are not present, which is not guilty but hypocrisy, finally admit what happened to us and learn lessons and not hide from ourselves that there has been a severe national defeat in every sense of that word. We've lost some controlled territory, a huge number of people, and economic losses can't be added up or counted. We lost years of lying and refusing to admit it. I was fully aware of that when we came to power seven years ago and faced the problem that everyone else had already solved, these of us forgot about this problem and completely gave up on it, with the desire to get back into control, get it back to the surface and get as much as we can for our people in Kosovo and Metohija and lose the least we have to. I didn't choose to continue lying and self-deception. I told everyone back then and today I'm telling you, there's no Serbia, there's no government in Kosovo and Metohija, except essentially in health and education and that we need to stop cheating and our own public. I don't know if anyone's ever wanted to hear me, except they've been telling me insults all over again, but I've been doing it all these seven years. Just as I said we needed peace, a stable economy, growth in all segments and an agreement with Albanians as the only way to have a future. We are on our way to all of this and this government, the government of Mrs. Brnabic, from a terrible minus. With more than 100 countries that have recognised Kosovo, with an economy that is tightly tied to those who recognise Kosovo, with border crossings both in Jarinj and Brnjak, with a terrible position of Serbs in Kosovo itself. We're on our way to do something where no one's done anything for years except lie to us and to lie to ourselves and to try and get something where we've lost everything. We set out in talks with Albanians, who not only want independent Kosovo, but also want major Albania, with people who think that they, not NATO, can always count on NATO, so they say, above all, to win the United States and who would take everything without giving anything, with those who have open support for the most powerful countries in the world. For seven years, we had a difficult, terribly difficult fight, negotiated, tied arms and legs, fought for Serbia in every place. Today, I can tell you, we haven't lost anything that hasn't been lost, we haven't traded anything that hasn't been sold in a long time, and we haven't given a pedal of what someone hasn't given, but we're going to get Serbia back in the game to have what it can have. What's that we got anyway? We've got peace. Remember, and in difficult times they worked, and our many are harder, both Milosevic's period and DOS's after seven years followed the war in Kosovo and NATO's aggression, followed here after seven years by recognition of an independent Kosovo. After all these disastrous facts, nothing like this happened to us. We have preserved peace, greater security for Serbs in Kosovo and what is most important is a better and stronger Serbian economy, a Serbian economy that has given birth to both the stronger and the Serbian military and the Serbian police. A Serbian economy that has given birth to a stronger economic Serb man who is looking into the future and who believes in the future, and his European future, but also the future of his children. The most important thing, the possibility of going on, to keep fighting behind that board that we're standing for. I know that it seems a little small to some, and I know that there are those who will say you've been doing it for seven years, and you're not done. For the first time in seven years, we haven't been tragically done. For the first time in three decades, if we hadn't ended up with a complete defeat and a complete collapse that we've been through, we'd just been pretending we hadn't seen him and not admit him. It's just that those who say that I have to ask you, and would you lie and deceive our people faster, because in your seven years, Kosovo has formally gained independence. And as much as you've been doing it, whether you've done it or pushed everything into the closet and waited for someone else to come in, open it up and be buried with the skeletons you've hidden. Seven years for a seven-century problem is not much, and in those seven years we paid the lowest price compared to all the historical periods we've been through. It will take us many more times seven years to solve all problems in Kosovo. Whoever says otherwise is lying. Whoever offers instant solutions deceives both ourselves and us, because we all are, and that's my finding, and we Serbs and Albanians are in a stalemate today. Those who expect that independence is done, and so are we who ask that we be, and not be humiliated, and get what is right for Serbs and protect our people in Kosovo and Metohija. After a comprehensive report and a review of numerous historical circumstances, the money we invested on energy, the dialogue in which we participated and the results. I want to talk about the future from four basic aspects, and that's politics. Under one, today 11 years since the declaration of Kosovo's independence we have only two options, there is no great philosophy. You don't need either Gurvich, or Digi, or Cont, enough to look at the first piece of paper to make everything clear. One option is to normalise the relationship between Serbs and Albanians between Belgrade and Pristina, and another is to try to preserve the status quo or so on. frozen conflict. The frozen conflict does not mean anything, Albanians can defrost it at any time. People when they talk, and what kind of plan Vucic will bring out, they lie to themselves because they need to ask a question, and what is the plan of the Albanians, and what is the plan of the Germans, and what is the plan of everyone else, because we are smaller players than those great Western forces. And can we speak for them what their plans are? May we? Do we have a right? Or maybe we were surprised not once. Or we'll say, we're stronger than anyone, so we can handle it easily. What I think is important is that people know that a frozen conflict cannot exist as our solution, Albanians will not. The Albanians will not, and therefore show increasing anxiety from day to day. And that's why it's only a matter of time before the Serbs attack. That's what I'm telling you here, in this most important place, at this most important moment, it's a matter of day and month when the Serbs will attack because they can't take it anymore. We can, they can't. We can, even if it slows down the Eurointegrations that are very important to us for Serbia's economic progress. Terriblely important. We could handle it, but how are we going to withstand an Albanian attack? I'll get to that. Normalization can only be in two cases. Number one, as experienced by the world, the international community and Albanians. The implementation of an agreement in which Kosovo is a comprehensive territory, an independent state. We'd give the Serbs some rights. It will be modeled by some two Germans, which Albanians also do not accept although Germany and France would push it, but Albanians will not. The Americans also won't do it anymore, they say, you have to admit it. We say, we won't admit it, and they say, you have to admit it. We say we won't go in circles like that. The second possibility that we missed was the one that I talked about so much and that I was so attacked that many before me talked about it in a tenfold more favourable situation. So, I repeat for the 50th time tonight, in a tenfold more favourable situation, they offered some kind of demarcation, to save healthy tissue in Kosovo and Metohija, to keep our people from further persecution, to preserve all of Serbia, to make economic advances, to be able to work and live peacefully in the future. This is what I experienced as a heifest heifer, not only in the work of the Western public, who was already taught that Serbs should not get anything but also from a piece of false patriotism in Serbia who handed it all over to them, who gave them all independence on the plate, who did not issue a statement on this issue, which had the decision of the International Court of Justice, so they say, little is it for us. We have little to do with what you have left us with except with complete bankruptcy, the ruined economy of Serbia and independent Kosovo and with the paper of the International Court of Justice, the paper of the International Court of Justice that it is not illegal and illegally implemented. Now we Serbs need to pretend all silly, that nothing happened. It happened, people, that's what everyone in the world tells you. It happened in 1999, 2004, it happened in 2008, and it happened in 2010. We can't pretend nothing happened. That idea is completely ruined at this point. I see now that everyone in the whole world is suddenly appalled by the idea, and I just have to translate it into our Serbian language, appalled by the idea of Serbs getting anything. In all of this they helped them, falsely arguing for Serbian interests and part of Serbian politicians, who knew well what the West was talking about when he said it was against demarcation, which he understood perfectly what they were talking about. They only talked about you Serbs not getting anything in Kosovo. It's okay to protect your people, but Serbia has nothing in Kosovo, and my answer despite all these defeats was disastrous, despite everything that they left us in the garbage dump and in a deep pit from which we couldn't dig up for a few years, I told them and we told them, not only Serbs at KIM, but we want to protect Serbia's interests and it's not like Serbia has anything on KIM. And that's why I'm being shown in the Western public, and that's why I've been attacked by their agents in different ways in all the regional countries and here. The question is, the key question is, what is it that we're going to do in the next period? Are we going to agree to a frozen conflict or are we going to seek a solution? I'll tell you, while I'm the President of the Republic, and that's another three years, I'll do my best if they cancel those fees, try to find some compromise solution that will take care of, not only the interests, of course, the interests of our people, the security, the security of our people, our churches, our monasteries, but also the interests of Serbia. I'll stand for some compromise solution. Why? Now I'm going to read you the most serious argument, quantified, to make it clear to you what kind of disaster is following us, and I'm saying this for history's sake, because I want this to be preserved, because I suppose it's possible that we don't come to a compromise at all in the next five or ten years, it's going to be a disaster for both Serbs and Albanians. I want to say how disastrous these consequences are for all of us, and I'm going to look at that through the economic, social and demographic sphere. The most important feature of Serbia's projected population's movement over the next four and a half decades is the continued depopulation. According to each of these projections, the population will be much smaller than in 2015, and I am talking about two options. One is achieving a normalisation of relations, which is a better variant for our demographic, economic and social opportunities and the other is not reaching any agreement with Albanians. It's a worse variant. I'm talking about these two options. The population of Serbia in 2060 can move depending on whether we reach the agreement or not, and you will later see the quantification of the workforce of all economic indicators. From 3,957,000 to 5,880,000, which is 5,880,000, if we were to reach a compromise solution with Albanians, which would mean a rapid equalisation of the migration balance, which means the same number of both migrants and immigrants, so that would mean a drastic strengthening of the Serbian economy at the same time, which would mean a lower rate of mortality and an increased fertility rate still not enough, but certainly far higher from 1.46 to 1.85 in the coming period. This would mean that, with the maximum version achieved, we would achieve a compromise solution that is good, in which Serbia would protect its interests, not Serbs, its interests at KIM and get something, that would mean that we would lose more than a million people by 2060, 1.215 or 17%. If we didn't do that, if I didn't read you all the tables, the reduction would be 3.37,000 or 44% compared to 2015. This was done by a cohortquant method and we have done both of these scenarios, and it is very important in that, if a compromise solution were to occur between 2025 and 2030, regardless of the asylum that exists today in the EU, and I have said this metaphorically, and this must remain our strategic goal, especially after yesterday's results, if we joined the EU between 2025 and 2030, it would dramatically strengthen our chances of being close to this minimum or least bad solution. Everything else would lead us to a difficult situation. In the middle of 2030, there was an equalisation of the number of immigrants and migrants, a zero migration balance. We will begin importing labour from other countries in two years' time, especially for physical affairs, for those jobs that people are doing today, lower and medium professional equipment. There will be problems, there are some countries as fortunate as Bulgaria, Romania with Moldova, Ukraine, and we will have to open our borders for countries in the region, from where we will have to receive labour, because we will not have enough. Also, I want to say for the last two and a half decades, the projection period from 2035 to 2060, it's assumed to be constantly positive and growing migration balance. So we expect that in that period we will have about 200,000 more people moving into our country than those coming out. It is not only the result of a positive policy, not to lie, but the result and the fact that our population is getting older, and the elderly have fewer risk genes and less want to be exposed to the dangers of the unknown and going abroad. As far as the fertility hypothesis is concerned, I've already said, from 1.46 to 1.85. As for the hypothesis and expected changes in mortality, we will have thanks to the drastic investment and major investment in the health system extended lifespan, but this will increase our pension needs so much and again I am talking about further investment in labour, so that our pension system can be sustainable at all. As you can see, today a large number of EU countries have significant problems. As far as the workforce is concerned, we will face problems, regardless of the exceptional result of the reforms we have achieved, but if we were to go to a compromise solution, if possible, then, we would, we would have planned the growing rates of activity by age and gender, given the current very low rate of activity according to the 2015 data, which we took as a year, today it is much better, the rate of activity of the population aged 15 to 64 was 63.6%, which is much lower than the European average of 72.4%. The assumption is that by 2030 we will reach the average rates of activity that exist in the EU and that means that we could have around 2030, 68.6%, and in 2060, about 71% of the total population activity of 15 to 64 years. Based on supposed rates, it is very important to say that when you carry out the projection of the population and the workforce, how important it is that we survive as a country at all, to come to some agreement with Albanians. I'm telling you all this, and I'm going to tell you this in the end, not because there's any solution, there's not even a dialogue, there's nothing, but I'm telling the Serbian public to understand the importance of the agreement, because agreement and compromise are not defeat. The deal and compromise are victory. If we don't agree to them, we'll lose everything. And immediately I say to those who will falsely represent themselves as great patriots and protectors of Serbian interests, unlike them, and my children and I will be here, and we will guard and defend Serbia, if anyone attacks it, unlike those who have already put their own goods abroad, have millions in bags and bags, and Serbia's future is at least thinking about. We people, if there were no agreement, about these numbers that I told you about, about 68 to 71 percent of the total activity, the population of 15 to 64, would be at 50.5 percent, if there were no agreement with the Albanians, and we would have a negative natural growth of two million and 693 thousand people. It is insufferable for Serbia, it is for Serbia something Serbia cannot survive. What's very important to us is that we try to look at investment scenarios and social scenarios. If we could achieve this by 2060, the real standard of living for Serbian citizens by these projections would be 72% higher than it is today. If we didn't do that, it would be 29% to 30% higher. So that's, you know, an optimistic, conservative scenario. This conservative scenario would be so bad that it's a question of whether we predicted well, whether all our hypothesis about emigration movements is entirely correct. What is very important to say today is that if we wanted to achieve sustainable macroeconomic stability, in this case we would have to seriously lower average pensions and total pension expenditure because there is no one to support them. It would happen in 20, 25 years, not 35, 40 years, and serious peoples and serious countries see their future that way. This would lead to the full social unsustainability of our public finances, the creation of a social burden on public finances and a significant rise in rates and relative and absolute poverty. I think it's very important to point out that no matter how many of us enjoy not solving the problem, waiting for world circumstances to change, and if we don't know ourselves what that would have to do with us. In all our studies, we'd like things to stay the way they are, so we don't have any guarantees, and that's impossible. Anyone who says that doesn't tell the truth to our people. I know you prefer it, but it's not true. I repeat the third time tonight -- if there is no compromise solution, just wait for the Albanian attack on Serbs. That's what's going to happen, because they're losing their nerve, they're getting more nervous, they're getting nervous about the tribunal, so they're setting up a tribunal for Serbs, and that's why they're doing it. Remember, we thought of the Republika Srpska Krajina as well, not very different with a different scenario and for Montenegro. Today Krajina is gone, and Montenegro has declared its independence, and the position of Serbs in Montenegro is difficult for any of our people to satisfy. We are facing two major problems here, a few more minutes and I am ending, not to worry, the West's determination to accept and recognise Albania's independence in Kosovo fully. So Western forces that have accepted Kosovo's independence are absolutely determined to banish it to the end, at all costs and in any way. The other problem we are facing is the anti-legal actions of Albanians who create a new reality and who they are trying to represent as a new normality. The fees they've imposed are anti-civilization, completely against the law. Have you noticed that neither the Economist, nor the Financial Times, nobody writes about it, it's almost a unique case in the world. However, it is now becoming modern in the world of some great forces, but they do not have as strict contracts as we have, well, they do not break contracts, but they are making their own political decisions, so they stop the People's Republic of China, which has mastered the world market of different goods and services, they stop it by protectionist measures, but it's their policy, big high policy, away from us, but to what's so obvious, they don't react. Serbia has friends among those who have confessed, especially among those who have not recognised Kosovo's independence. They have their own interests, of course. All countries that have not recognised Kosovo's independence have their own interests. I am also grateful to this occasion for using this possibility to the Russian Federation and to be honest with its President Vladimir Vladimir Vladimirovic, because it is he who has repeatedly helped Serbia to adopt different resolutions, declarations and other general legal acts, mainly against the Republic of Serbia and for helping in talks with many other countries not to recognise Kosovo's independence. I am grateful to the People's Republic of China, and I am grateful for the huge support of our economic development, I am grateful to President Si Gjiping for helping us solve the problem of Jelizara, to solve the problem of the Borski mine, that today, along with Turkish tourists, are the most numerous tourists in Serbia, for making new factories from Zrenjanin, Loznica, Nis, Leskovec and all other cities. I am also grateful to all other Asian, numerous African, Latin-American countries, ocean countries that have not recognised Kosovo's independence, I am also grateful to India, as a great force very, congratulating and Narendri Modi, for his convincing victory. Also, I'd like to look back at the region. We had in the previous period as an agreed match, so it seemed in Berlin, that everyone always spoke against Serbia. We didn't do anything to them. We did not make any move to anger Montenegro, and I must say that in Berlin, Montenegro treated Serbia correctly. I was surprised and amazed by the fall of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I reacted very sharply and interrupted such a trail of events and such a discussion in Berlin, and it was not pleasant at all. Especially since I find such a strange reaction in Bosnia and Herzegovina because it is not an official attitude of Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's why I'm even more surprised by the attempts to make in the Raska region or Sandzak, whatever you want to call it, there are politicians who would like to cause some kind of instability. I also want to say to Bosniaks and Serbs that they don't have to worry, there won't be any real instability. Imagine what you're doing against your Bosniak people, if you're going to say we're going to be looking for special status, then leaving the army and the police. Well, wait, you have three municipalities where most of you are, and what about 63 municipalities where Serbs are the majority in Bosnia and Herzegovina? That's what you're running, not us. If I had started it, to repeat, I would have been hanged in Brussels, as you are silent about Thaci, Rama Haradinaj, Happy and all the others who make great Albania every day. That's how you keep your mouth shut about this. I want to tell the people and the citizens of Serbia that the fact that I am silent and that we are mostly silent and we are not responding is because there is no danger in that. It was one, two politicians, irresponsible, with hundreds or several hundred supporters and nothing more and nothing else, nor what they could threaten, and you know how cautious I am, how pessimistic I am, and not optimistic I am telling you now – there is nothing I can do under God's love. Therefore, Bosniaks and Serbs, be still, you will all live well and well in Serbia. Soon comes the highway to Duga Poljana between Sjenica and Novi Pazar, we work Novi Pazar - Tutin road, we also work regional water lines and do not worry. That's what we're gonna do now. We will have to continue to work on further repairing relations with Northern Macedonia and Croatia. (Vojislav Seselj: E, it's a little difficult. ) It is very difficult to go with the Republic of Croatia. Please don't throw it to me, Mr. Seselj. I know that and I've experienced it many times. We're going to have to put in extra effort, extra effort, and try to do it. I want to show you something, a good will, and it's ours to do everything we can on our side. Let me try to narrow down what we said today. So, in the first stage, we have to wait to see if Europeans and Americans can convince Albanians to cancel their fees. Continuing essential talks without a taxi being abolished will not be done, period. If they cancel the fees, we'll go talk, try to find a compromise solution. If he happens to be, and I'm skeptical about it, we'll come before parliament both in front of the people and the citizens of Serbia to come forward. Unlike some other EU countries and member states, and not EU members, we will have the people's decision to be binding, and not - a referendum has not passed, but who cares about the referendum if they decide political elites. It shall be with us as the people decide, and as the people say. We will ask the people and the people will speak their mind. If none of this is the case, and if there is the worst scenario that I have already talked about, and the Albanians attack our people in Kosovo and Metohija, as I said in Kosovo Mitrovica, and as I said today, however difficult it is, and it is very difficult, because in Kosovo and Metohija, we will not allow the persecution and pogrom of the Serbian people. We've had enough Storms, Flashes, a lot of accidents and more such accidents the Serbian people will not experience. I want to inform you that we have met the most international representatives about this, that General Mojsilovic has also met NATO commander and that this is one of the small reasons why the pogrom and persecution of Serbian living from Kosovo and Metohija does not exist. If some had remembered that they should have an army and police 10 and 12 years ago, maybe we could have saved something more. Also, I want a few sentences just to refer to anyone who tries to make a deal and compromise as a solution being declared a traitor in our country. I've been listening to that. I listened to the best Serbs that they were traitors, from Kosovo Poland or in the evening of the Kosovo Battle, to the day of today, and they always told us the worst Serbs and the most difficult epithets, the most difficult insults, and they never saw what they were doing or what they were doing. That's why I've always asked to look at the results and see what's left behind. I would ask a question for all of them – is there this hero, this Obilic, this avenger of Kosovo today who will, in one act and so easily as they talk about returning under our wing, the sacred land of Kosovo? (Vojislav Seselj: Yes! Where is he? (Vojislav Seselj: There he is! I am, Mr. Seselj, unlike you, very serious. Is it among the bishops, the poets, the intellectuals, the politicians? Show me that heroic son and, believe me, I will immediately step aside and let him finish this sacred work, because I am unable and I will admit that I was a traitor and that I sold this most expensive Serbian word – Kosovo. Otherwise, I won't allow it to anyone, because I know how much I fight and how much the people we work with and who we fight together for both Kosovo and Metohija and Serbia in Kosovo and Metohija are worth. Just before that, let them show me exactly what they've done with big words and drilling into national breasts and passwords so far. Let them show me how in Pec, Prizren, Urosevec, Djakovica, their burning patriotism preserved a single Serb, let alone territory under our control. How many have returned to Kosovo? As Tijanic says, Kosovo, all Serbs would give their lives for Kosovo, and which one of them wants to go to live in Kosovo? How many Tachia, Haradiniah and Happy have they made escape? In the end, why are they all saying it here in Belgrade, in the cafe gardens, and in Kosovo, they're not going to follow one of the words they're saying? Why don't they go to Pristina, so they don't organise protests against Kosovo's independence or at least one poetic evening, asking, but also Thaci to come to that, to repent and tell them they're right? Why do they complain and why do they always offer for their expensive words other people's lives at the lowest possible price, usually for free? That's enough of that. Serbia can no longer endure this pile of lies and hypocrisy. He can't move forward as he chokes in the fictional past and the bad present. We do not have room for self-deception, for fairy tales, for passwords, or for false motives and false ideals, but we do not have time for those who would hand over anyone who would naked Serbia, to leave the Serbian people without its essence and without its spiritual existence. These great heroes feel free to make me anathemize. I won't give up on what's true, and everything I told you today is absolutely true. I don't have the right to do it, I don't want to lie, and no one has authorized me to do it. If I want something, if I came here for something, as I did at the invitation of the Serbian Patriarch to the Serbian Church Assembly, to tell the truth that will allow us to get rid of the ballast lie, which will allow us to see exactly where and where we are and what has hit us and what and how much we can. When it comes to Kosovo, our first lesson must be how to rid ourselves of all our defeats, by first understanding them and the reasons and facing these defeats, but then realizing that in this same Kosovo we could and that we can only win and that Serbia can and must win and that in the most difficult defeats the seeds of victory grow and that in what we have learned from our losses. What I'm trying to say again, to say once again, all those who speak of their own heroism, and that heroism proved to be better than themselves, more valuable than themselves, unorthodoxly and smarter than themselves, said that they were traitors and that they were not protecting enough Serbian people, and that the Serbian people never protected them anywhere, not even by raising his reputation within their own people, let alone within the international community. They have no right to speak of it, so I am never ashamed when those who are the worst among us use such words and speak such expressions. It's important to me what stays behind and if we leave the future for our children. That's why I fought for this, that's why I'm proud of this report, and that's why I'm proud of all of you who understand what's true and who you understand that we have to fight and there's a lot of fighting ahead of us. I will end up with a quote from the great Serbian writer Borislav Pekic. Big Bora Pekic said you should look straight, because if you wanted to look behind you, we'd get eyes on the back of the head. The land of its children should be loved, not by their grandfathers; for honor will not envy where we come from, but where we go. Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-27-0.u55155	I thank the President of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, for his address. We move on to authorised representatives or presidents of parliamentary groups. I'll call you in line as you applied during the discussion. The first speaker is Dragan Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-27-0.u55156	Mr. President, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, let me tell you, Mr. President, all of what you said today was as transparent as after every meeting wherever you were in Brussels, London, Munich, Paris, the citizens of Serbia know very well what you were doing. Let me tell you in the beginning, is there a result of all that you've been doing and who evaluates the work of the state authorities, the president of the state, the ministers? citizens in the election. We from Belgrade, from central Serbia, can fight in the chest and say that we will do, I don't know, Haradinaj, Thaci, etc., but the real answer to the result that you achieved together with Ivica Dacic, given by Kosovo Albanians in the last elections 90%, and in Serbia at this point not popularity, I won't say a word of value, but the merit of what you did to Serbia's citizens with the parties that make up the majority, is over 80%. Don't mind when they criticise some of the opposition how, I don't know, you did this or what, if they didn't come to the assembly meeting when they were discussing Tiana's law, where it wasn't the law or the Wolf, or Maja Gojkovic, or Dacic, or all of us sitting here, but to sharpen the penalties against rapists and those who rape women, they killed the powerless people, they said they wouldn't come because the authorities would vote for that law. They didn't come here today to hear your report, to say what they have. They say it's a media block. Well, now I've looked at the ratings, the most watched RTS program since there's an RTS today. Well, you come to a friend, and you say, "You're wrong, Mr. Wolf, because of that and that." But they can't say you're wrong, because you inherited a very difficult condition for the past seven years when you took over. So, in Kosovo and Metohija, the Serbs were much worse, much harder, and they had negotiations. Of course, we also negotiated, or you, but you didn't say how tired you were because you were in Brussels for a meeting, so you should rest for a month, but you went from Brussels to Munich, on your way back from Munich to bring factories, investors to make factories in Serbia to hire workers. From Brussels, you went to China, so two of China's biggest investors, supported by the president of China and the people of China, that Serbia is a country where there is economic stability, political security, to bring money and to save us two factories, or one mine, that was one factory, that was in front of bankruptcy. When you look at what you've been doing, and nothing has been lost in Kosovo and Metohija, we've even improved the position of Serbs in the way that more is being helped, more is investing, etc. You are not talking in Kosovo and Metohija with Catherine Ashton, Mogerini or, I don't know, with these international representatives who have been in office for three or four years, you have been talking in Brussels with Washington, London, Paris, Munich and other cities in Europe, which have been deciding the fate of Serbian citizens for over 25 years. When it comes to the international community's relationship with Serbia, the global policy of the international community remains the same, but the economic policy that depends on the fate and power of this country, if you are economically strong, then no one can demonstrate more force against Serbia as they did in previous years, because when we have economic power, we can also strengthen tools when it comes to both the military and the police. Mr. President, there has never been a greater unity in Serbia between the church, the military, the police, the people and the government that runs this country, ever. They laughed that you went to talk to the S.P.C. Synod, where His Holiness, Patriarch Iriney, received you. What's wrong with that? I suppose you should hear the church's opinion and that even those bishops who think otherwise should not be resented, but the head of the SPC said you're doing well and continue that way. It's for me as a man, an Orthodox who lives in central Serbia, as a family man who advocates family, a green light that everything you've done, I never doubted, but confirmed the SPC. It wasn't a case of years ago when some were in power. Every other week they invented something for a priest, a bishop, and we put what is sacred to us on the front page of certain newspapers both the church and the people, our Orthodox, not the wall, and it's bad. I want to tell you, Mr. President, that the Flora Brovine you mentioned earlier was one of the main characters, when it came to the Kosovo Albanians, released from prison with 1500 Albanians, a raptor, where the then government when it released those sharps, Albanians, terrorists, said they were economic smugglers, they were smuggling cigars, some non-accessible slave, etc., and all this later turned out to be terrorists and they were in the ranks of the UCK, where they were killing Serbian women and Serbian children. If we, ordinary people, say -- we watched these two films, that movie on Paštrik and on Kosharam, then our emotions will return at a time where courage was applied, not wisdom. This courage has led me not to say what, but I don't want to go back to the 1990s, let's see in 2000, so here what has been done and what has been done by those who have promised that Serbia will become a member of the EU very soon, and what have you done when you have received the citizens' trust with us. You fought and I told you that when you were in Srebrenica, it's an honor. You barely got out of your head alive and you invited Izetbegovic to come to Belgrade, walking down Prince Michael's street, no one touched him. This is what the whole world needs to look at, to see that we are a peaceful people, but we want to sharpen what is the sovereignty of every state, in the Constitution, not that some countries, individual states, are constantly attacking Serbia as we are guilty of all of us, and nothing is Kosovo Albanians. The Hague tribunal is designed for Serbs. Thousands and 200 years in prison and sentenced Serbs to prison for allegedly war crimes. Where are those who have caused all these wars? They are now in power, freed from responsibility, from the wartime command by which it was tried and by Serbs. All witnesses were killed. When it comes to Haradinaj, and he is now as clean as spring water, beware, and the Serbs blame for something that defended their hearth, because we did not wage conquest wars, we waged defensive wars. We have defended Serbian houses and what is called the Serb sanctuary in Kosovo and Metohija. You said compromise. Of course there's supposed to be a compromise. Both you and Dacic and I were saying that Serbia needs to be lived, not killed and not given us sons, brothers, relatives going to war, and compromise exactly the way you do it. There is no word for me, no sentence that I am not familiar with what you said in Brussels and other countries when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija and when you met with those high representatives, etc. When it comes to America, an ambassador keeps telling us – where are the Being Brothers? Wait, Mr. Ambassador, did the Serbian court investigate? Yes, it is. The Hague tribunal says - we do not trust the Serbian court. Come on, The Hague tribunal also had the case and they didn't find out who killed them. What about the Serbian brothers? What about Jovanovic, the Petrovic brothers, Ilic, Savik, etc.? No one mentions Serbian brothers. I want to thank you for marking every date where there was a persecution of the Serbian people and returning to history, which was not the case in earlier years. You were in Nis and you were crying. What kind of a man and politician doesn't cry? So you don't care about everything. It's not ugly to cry when a man who doesn't have both his left and his right hand comes out, when you hear how many of them have died, etc. It wasn't just you crying, the whole of Serbia was crying, but don't ever cry about the past again, or any new war acts. Let's see how to come to a compromise, what is what is our minimum. You're right when you say - we cannot talk in advance about Kosovo Albanians finding out and making countermeasures. What some say, those who represent a minority in this country, believe it or not, that no one listens to it anymore. Those who speak, in the morning, attack you, between 12:00 and 2:00 p.m. are traffic technicians, changing signs instead of the street pass-by, I don't know, there's this second street pass-by, and they're fighting each other at night. Wait, the citizens of Serbia will now trust people who are fighting, who have a result, people who apply wisdom and not courage, people who have never offended any president of a country, to say -- see, was Vukic, Dacic, so I don't know what they told me, etc. You suffered and you kept quiet and I admire you. I almost sent a message, knowing your mentality, I can't recognize you, but in a positive sense, everything you do, you do well for Serbia. So, JS MPs' club, Mr. President, will vote for this report if he is at the polls. They say - there is Croatia attacking Serbia. People, so Croatia attacks Serbia because it is jealous of Serbia. Last year, 60,000 Croats fled from European Croatia to other European countries. Four times, respectively, six times smaller from Serbia, people go to European countries, and Serbia is not an EU member, but has a good future. It is that it is not the best in this time period, but from month to month more factories are being opened in Serbia, highways are being opened. Those who speak, President, you invest in roads, so they have no idea. They don't know what investors ask first. Is there a highway to that city, how far is the airport, etc? That's two basic questions. If you don't have a highway, you can't bring investors. No transit traffic will go through your country. How many hospitals were built, how many devices and equipment were purchased for the hospital? I was at a military parade. Let me tell you, I served my army in Tito's guard. I'm not gonna say I'm military-educated, but I've seen a lot of things there. I'm impressed... (Vojislav Seselj: What year? ) In 1979, in 1980. (Vojislav Seselj: We served together. In Tito's guard? You who love Tito most, served the army in Tito's guard. Imagine, Seselj served an army at Tito's. And if he'd gotten the call, he'd be the main deserter, because he didn't like Tito. But it doesn't matter. Voila, wait till I'm done. This is most important to us, and it's very important to you. You were in The Hague, too. The injustice was over you. I defended you when you were there, wherever I could and had a public word. I've seen a few processes. But let's go back to this topic. What was all done in Serbia? No one can argue with that. A surplus, then four years in a row of surpluses. Well, it can't even be a real football club for four years champion of the Champions League, it can't. For such a thing, conditions must be created. Alexander Vukic, I'm going to boxer time to say, he's had a large number of meetings in Brussels. It's like if Vojislav Seselj sent him to box with Tyson. And, Alexander Vukic lasted 12 rounds on his feet, didn't fall. And it's a great success. I'm a man living in central Serbia. People, not Belgrade and central Serbia are the same in thinking. Central Serbia understands it differently, and you need to explain more to citizens what happens when it comes to Serbia. But if citizens in central Serbia, in eastern Serbia, in southern Serbia, in western Serbia understood that, then I don't know who can argue that such a result is bad. Hansel Dacic is fighting Pacolli. He's got money in his sacks, and Dacic doesn't even have a notebook. With only words, truth about Serbia, what is truth and justice. Although it has been internationally violated, in Serbia. And 13 states withdrew what they said Kosovo was independent. Of course, I know, he never traveled anywhere until he went to the president to tell him, like I don't travel anywhere until I tell the president. People, I am part of this society and I am not a minister, but I send him a message for 10 days – Mr. President, I am going here, here and here, to this country, whether there are any instructions, happily ever, and I know what I will say there, as I am going to tomorrow, or tonight, to Greece, to lead thousands of people, and Greece is a great friend of Serbia, and not only Greece, and Hungary, thanks to President Vukic. What were the relations with Hungary before, what about Greece before? They were friendly with the people with Greece, but not with the government. Today, Cyprus wherever it is found in the white world, it pronounces the name Serbia. Germany, watch out, 60,000 Serbs work in German factories in Serbia. That's what a common people should know. So Germany believes in stability, economic security, etc. in Serbia. When could you take credit as an ordinary man, as a farmer, without your interest jumping in two, three months and a euro rate and having a third of your salary be a war on credit? Never. I mean, since I was born and my family's been in business, both father and grandfather and I, never. It's happening now. It can't be challenged by anyone. Well, we don't have an uncle or run into those international institutions that decide, they give high marks when it comes to this country and everything that this country and the Government of the Republic of Serbia are doing. Ladies and gentlemen, JS and my coalition SPS and Ivica Dacic, I'm sure, and I saw Ivica Dacic today before this meeting, not that we would agree on what to talk about, but simply, I haven't seen him in a long, long time, much time, I've been around African states for 12 days. Now he tells me he's going to America again or I don't know where. What is important is that we give a high assessment of everything that is done here in this Serbia. Our army didn't demonstrate the bridge to threaten anyone. Just so you know, President Vukic, in the village when someone needs to steal pears or bostan, they say - get away from him, he's got a big gun, he's got a hunting rifle. They say -- don't go to his yard, he's got a hunting rifle. That's the country's thinking. But let me tell you, what we saw, going back to that military parade, a large number of countries are going to think about Serbia. Well, we haven't, how many planes have we had from year to year until seven years ago? Even in one plane, a pilot told me, a pigeon made a nest. So why didn't you paint that, man? So, it doesn't work, it's standing there in the hangar, so what's it for? Who are we scaring with those broken planes? So they're criticizing what you got from Russia, what did you get from this? Who the hell are we supposed to get from? We get from those who give us the best price, the best conditions, who won't put radar on listening to what our pilots are doing in the air tomorrow, etc. These pilots and those planes will guard the Serbian skies, but if anyone attacks us, of course we have to defend ourselves and we have something to defend ourselves. I also want to commend the police who do very well and quickly find all those who commit serious crimes. The cops are pleased that it wasn't the case of years ago. Seven years ago and nine years ago, they forced the cops to beat the unions...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-27-0.u55157	Time, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-27-0.u55158	I hope it hasn't been 20 minutes. Excuse me, can I have three more seconds? Thank you. They made cops beat up workers, unions, etc., and you stopped the cops from doing your job. The one with the chainsaw, the one with the masks on the TV, and you say no, don't touch them. Well done. You knew that these were people who were for single use, like a meat cut that had, I don't know, what it says, six months on the can. Thank you very much, the Unique Serbia will support your report.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-27-0.u55159	Thank you. The next registered speaker is Cedomir Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-27-0.u55160	Dear President, the Honorable Vice President, Mr President, Mrs Brnabic, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, firstly I think we are obliged to answer one very simple question - do we even need more of these sessions? Why did we come here today? Is our society needed and is there still a word in our language that we haven't spoken so far, describing our torment and misfortune from Kosovo, which is unfortunately, and I think that in that alone meaning of today's session, only the last one in a series, is certainly the most tragic and most difficult of our national taxes? In 2019, talking about Kosovo, and at first sight without a particular occasion actually makes sense only if we turn this debate into a conversation about us, because our unfortunate poor Kosovo is so because of us here in Belgrade, and not because of that people who stayed down there to live, which is nowhere to go. What we did in the end to Kosovo, before doing it to Serbs in Croatia, we did it in Bosnia, and today we are doing it to ourselves. You've been in power for seven years, Mr. President. We'll tell you what we lost in those seven years. We lost time in which we could at least try to become a decent people. You entered the Serbian Parliament today about the way you might have entered parliament in Pristina. They insult you. Seselj tramples his political opponents' cars. We break each other's necks, bite each other. We schedule the rallys to curse on them those who are not with us, and after two hours of your speech and the frenetic applause that he has ended, I see that you are alone, all alone, the government and the MPs and the parties and the people, and you are with yourself as president. What is this truth, the bitter truth you mentioned, as something we should choose instead of a sweet lie? What's the truth? I remember all these Kosovo sessions very well here in parliament. At least because I always came out of them branded as a traitor. I remember because of this strange unity, which was not the result of a common view of solving the problem, but of some irrational fear of not opening my eyes and saying what was obvious, I said a lot about Milosevic, I said a lot about Kostunica, about Tadic, about Nikolic, about you, but I never saw anyone who ran the country pointing fingers and accused him of being a traitor because of what happened to us in Kosovo. I never poured salt on that wound. Would I have done otherwise? I'd do it. Is that what I'm talking about? I was talking. And I suggest it to you now. I wish you in the church could find what you need to bring some peace into ours and some unfortunate people, but you can't find it there. There is not today in the church of Charnojevic who will say that the people must live, not disappear. I wish you could find that at our academy. There are brave men out there. There are those who speak openly and correctly, but you will not find there either, President, support for what this people need to survive, not for you to remain in power. Where's that help? Unfortunately, you have to do it yourself. I wish I could do it for you, I wish, as you said, find me this Obilić. Tell me what to do, so that my people may find peace and happiness, that both you and my children and all the other and Shessel's grandchildren may become and be different from all of us. Every one of our family trees, Mr. President, has been watered in blood with blood. What Serbia needs is difficult to say and even harder to do. I don't know how you can do it yourself, but don't go the way that all Serbian presidents went before you. I've talked to everyone. None of them wanted not only because of that curse of Lazarus, he didn't have the strength, nor could he do anything that no one in the world had done before. Since the existence of the Croatian Parliament, only one decision has been reached unanimously, a decision rejecting the UN tribunal's arbitration in a dispute with Slovenia over the Piran Bay. The whole Stone can be transferred. They said he can't, while Pujdemon is arrested in Germany for a declaration of Catalan independence. The same Germany is asking us to recognise Kosovo's independence. As they tell us about Europe in 2025, we read five different scenarios of the transformation of Europe. What we have to do, we have to do for us. You've read these numbers, the head of which hurts, you can't track it anymore, and the computer can't track it -- where we're going to be in 2060, where we're going to be in 2100. No one can follow that anymore. We are the last generation of this society that will either put an end to this decomposition that lasts for centuries, or put an end to Serbia's state or put an end to the idea and the right of the Serbian people to have their own state. What we lost in Kosovo cannot be lost. You can't get lost another time. No matter how hard it is, it can't. You can't fit in the same water twice. But say what needs to be said. We in Kosovo can get what we never had as a people. Peace, Mr. President, peace can be won. The Albanian people are the last Balkan people to fight for national liberation, for their national state, in a time when no one does so anymore. Bloody, more or less like all the national struggles in the Balkans. We need peace with Albanians, and before that peace, peace with ourselves. Peace be upon us. Look at the world we live in. He's turned on his head, and everyone says why don't we wait a little longer. Let's wait. Well, nothing's been frozen in the last 10 years. Serbia fell apart, Albanian society developed under pressure, deformed because it could not find the necessary perspective for a different kind of development. We do not want to talk about Kosovo's status, but we will talk about salaries, so when it comes to good wages for Serbs and Albanians, status will not be a problem. We don't have any more time. That doesn't count for years anymore, it's been counting for months. You need to continue negotiations. Who knows one day when we listen to stories about these taxes, who knows what's gonna come up behind that? So he won't see Haradinaj as the Prime Minister of Thaci making him a state of Kosovo. Is that our problem? It's not. It's not our problem, it's their problem. Has anyone used their problem to torpedo the negotiations? Yes, it is. Someone's got Bregzit on their neck, someone else's gonna get a bloody Balkan drama in the 20th century again. If we don't help Albanians and ourselves become a normal state, it will unite with Albania, and then the problem of Macedonia will be opened, and Montenegro's problem will be opened, then northern Greece. And did I go to Macedonia, and to Bosnia and Herzegovina and pray and explain that every agreement between Belgrade and Pristina is supported, not to torpedo the border. So Kosovo is divided, it is divided. And every Albanian leader will tell you this - the north of Kosovo is not Kosovo. The north of Kosovo is neither Serbia. We've got to work this out. We've made mistakes in the past, we shouldn't go back to it, but don't let us repeat them. Don't let us repeat them. All right, we're tearing down their independence project, some countries are withdrawing recognitions, we're stopping them from entering some international institutions. It's all now a war in the course of negotiations, but that's not how we solve anything strategic. We're just frustrating them even more. We are still terribly alone, and this is evident in situations where we are occasionally found. It's true, but you know, when you talk about those planes, there was one now, there were 14 of them, and we didn't even have an airport. Our land was destroyed. All right, today, so you know what that highway is that you guys opened? Well, that's the first time the Serbian people have ever been on the road. Are you aware of that? It's not a SNS issue. (Vojislav Seselj: You had money for that trip, but you gave Chumet. E, if I only had enough money to send you somewhere, to fire you with a rocket, but they would have sent you back from space, just like they drove you out of The Hague. There is no more reason, there is no more reason for us here in parliament to avoid that kind of conversation. When you mention that north of Kosovo, who is responsible for the Serbian people's lack of orderly political life in Kosovo? They didn't allow us to let Serbs in Kosovo organise themselves politically. As Milosevic was asked to talk to him, that he then resolved the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, so in 2001 he asked us to make agreements here in Belgrade that Serbia in Kosovo will listen to blindly. Every government had its own coalition down there, right? That's right. That's how it's always been. You mention the letter to the Security Council, I wrote it, I wrote it. And the Security Council and Bush and Blair. And there's no point in talking about people who aren't around anymore, but I'll tell you. The latest meeting of the Serbian government's president with one of the world leaders in February 2003 began with a question – what did you take out of Kosovo? What do you need that for? Because that's the answer to the question, without Kosovo, we don't have our own country. They say, "Why do you need a state?" Well, because we want to get into Europe. You want to enter Europe, so you two are a bigger Europe than I am, but the Serbian people, think about how real that is. I'm still a fighter for this Europe today, because without this Europe, we can't exist, but what we need to understand here, no one else is going to solve these problems that are choking us. Have they made any decisions? They did. You're saying you can't tell your plan. I think our problem is that there's no plan anymore that can get rid of these things the way we'd like to get rid of them. There is one major threat and a problem, we of Serbia must not make Waimar Serbia, such as the Waimar Germany in 1918. So that every child that grows up here, and grows up poisoned with the nationalism under which our spine broke. Serbia was destroyed by the rude, sneaky, insidious one who is recognized today in the songs "The Year of Prizren" that are being played by Belgrade cafes, and is being dragged around Pristina, so tied up, no word can say. I don't agree with the policy of the Kosovo Office. I'd do a lot differently, but we're so powerless today, just because they're still moving in the frames where we can just disappear. It is not a question of how we will resolve Kosovo, not that, but the question is what is our new Kosovo? What is our new Kosovo? We shall go forth before the people and the people, and ye know how this shall end? Imagine you asked the people for pensions, that you asked for salaries. In 2008, I said that wages and pensions should be frozen. Imagine if you asked them that, how would that go? Well, our people go and vote for war, and then they're surprised when bombs fall on his head. We're crazy people. First of all, we need to help that people get on their feet, make them come to their senses, figure out what time they live in. You're the president and you're the president. Step forward, no one can help you, no matter how much your MPs want. You won't find a chance to help yourself. I wish there was some institution we could go out with, so let's say, let's talk. Look at what the congregation looks like. I don't mean opposition and power now, but look how powerless we are. We can talk and we can make some decisions and it always stays here between us, who else does it commit? What can we influence? If these walls could speak, that's where all our delusions are written. It's true, there's been a lot of wrong decisions in the past, but today can't be an argument, it can just be some warning, a note on the subject. When we talk about Kosovo, we talk about us. I was in Gazimestan in 1999, on Vidovdan on June 28th, burning everyone around. The patriarch Paul, Ataniah, Artemis, Amphiloch, and I, and Paul goes behind us, and Amphilochius says, "If he asks what is burning, say that the hay burns." And Paul cried, "When did the hay burn in Kosovo without burning the house?" Then I took out convoys of Serbs who loved the land when they crossed Merdare. The land was loved by the people. Now, that's what we have to think about. We must preserve this country by telling the truth, by saying that we will do everything for peace with the Albanians. That people must have their own country, as we must. Find compromises, but in these compromises there must be no place for old politics and there must be no consideration and understanding for the ideas that are devastating and that have brought us into this situation. You don't think, no one will pat you on the shoulders, you'll be branded as a traitor whatever you do. Your only mission is to change the orientation of this society, and support and understanding, so you won't find him as president. What kind of president of Serbia had such a thing at the end of his term? It's not here. But be what others weren't with all the limitations, all the mistakes. Try being a statesman. The statesman looks to the future. Politicians talk about the past. Open up that perspective of peace, agree with the Albanians, but tell us what's the point. Only peace is something we need, not territory, not municipalities, peace.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-27-0.u55161	Time, thank you. The word is made by President Alexander Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-27-0.u55162	Dear Mr Jovanovic, I will try briefly to respond to some of your claims and say a few words about what Dragan Markovic was talking about. I think today's session was important to us, not because we're going to make important decisions, but because we're going to tell the people the truth and because people will even be able to hear things. If nothing, to find out who Luka Marinkovic was, when he was killed, why he was killed, to find out what real projections are, and some of the most important people in Serbia were doing for the future, so that people can make decisions. Can we make a plan, since I've heard it from others, that wasn't malicious of you? You know, I'll try to explain the situation with the chess dictionary. We got into the game, literally with the lady and the cannon less, and you have to try to keep more pieces at the table to have some chance to hide your real intentions, so you can fight and there's no point in talking up to the details. I was able to make all the plans today, put out all the maps, talk about every village and village, but I can't and can't talk about it, because we don't decide anything ourselves, decide the other side, and decide even more those who encourage the other side to everything they've encouraged them to do today. That is one reason why you could not hear such a plan, not because a serious plan to preserve Serbia's interest does not exist. It is not just a question of the north and other things there are special relations between Serbs and Albanians. The relationship between Serbs and Albanians must be incomparably better. I would love to, and I didn't have time to talk about it, if I could, and in September I expect to come up with a new plan, which would be a little bit more than a regional economic zone, but for that we need a calming relationship with Albanians, to take down the borders between us, to act as a mini Europe. If Europe won't, and it won't be quick and it won't be easy. Last night's results, it is not a question of whether they are pro-European or anti-European, all will say they are pro-European as soon as they are in the European Parliament. The point is that anti-systemically they get a lot, and when they get your pirate parties 14%, in one of the EU's richest countries, then you understand in what direction we're going in and it's clear that we're going to have to wait a lot longer for their decisions than we thought. That is why our plan must be for the development of Serbia without any wheezing, without mourning, without whining about what has been missed or because of the situation that is happening in Europe. I'm very worried about Eurofer's announcements about our steel. I'm so worried that I'm going to ask Anna to come out of the session and go do it, because it could be literally shooting, a bullet in the head for our country if they insist on these decisions. So, but we have to fight, and that's why it's my idea to try to make in the region, we don't have to have the nearest political relations, but it's important to make the nearest economic relations. I hope the Albanians understand that. But I have a fear that he will never want it to end until the relationship with them is resolved in terms of status issues and it is objective and realistic. On the other hand, did you say how I got into the assembly? I came in normal, and if a man feels comfortable, I don't think it's ever happened in our country, maybe once, maybe Mr. Seselj knows it better than I do, that someone was preventing someone from entering the National Assembly or trying to stop him from entering the National Assembly. That never seemed to me to be in the last 30 years. Today some fascist groups tried to do it, of course they failed. But because I'm crying and moaning, I can't think of anything. I'll always pass, and it's up to the people to assess why some of them didn't show up here, even though they only asked for it two months and a month ago, saying they were gonna tear me apart, how they were gonna destroy me, how they were gonna explain how bad I was and what I did to the Serbian people, and they did a lot of good, and eventually they ran away from the moon. This would be the case every time in the future and on KIM and on all other important issues. So much my gratitude to all the political opponents who are here today, no matter what words they say. We had a very decent and good conversation with people in the church around the church. Look, when it was over, I was counting on decent people to say nothing about a closed meeting and I didn't say a word, nothing came up. Then, in Miskovic's newspaper, and in Gilas' newspaper, then in Solak's television, interviews in the tycoon media began to come out, to get information that had nothing to do with the truth, which had nothing to do with the truth. They invented in Montenegrin media that we had a fight about some kind of coup. We didn't have a fight, I just reminded the bishop Amphilochy that Milo Djukanovic was his biggest friend and that's where the debate ended, and I quoted him from his interview in "Evening News" a few months ago. Some of the bishops laughed, some of them didn't, but there was no debate. And the answer to everything I said was that it didn't say in Resolution 1244, of which four or four or five of them, who led the hunt against me was – and what did you make a lesbian prime minister? Well, that's the first time I've told you. It was a key answer and a key argument. When they saw that it wasn't in Resolution, when they saw that it wasn't in the Brussels Treaty, because they told me that we had abolished our people's education right south of Ibra. When I said it was a notorious lie and that we were paying for our teachers, teachers and teachers south of Ibra, then they told me -- well, why did you make a lesbian prime minister? I said, a lesbian has done more for this country than all your great Serbs have done before and in all the previous years and decades. I guess it's measured whether someone did something right for this country, not by the criteria that you set. Did you notice they didn't say that anywhere? Did you notice they didn't do anything and didn't let anything pass as information? Here, I'm asking anyone now to deny me from the Serbian Church. Otherwise, we didn't have any problem. We had a great conversation with all the other governments, great people understood, the patriarch understood everything perfectly. There was one who was conducting all the time how to stand up and attack me, and it wasn't Amphilochy, believe me. Are you saying that the Albanian people are fighting for their national liberation? Only the Serbian people have their own interests. The Serbian people have their own interests and what I say to all Western representatives and everyone else, and I will tell you this now, I think we never talked about it, I told them – people, if you think you can make peace with everyone else, and that Serbs are humiliated and that Serbs are made to feel not only cornered but that they are left without anything because they are left with me and every other Serbian leader, whether it is Ivica Dacic, whether it is you or anyone else, and how we are going to explain that those in Kosovo have the right to independence without even asking in Republika Srpska, and you know that I respect BiH's integrity and that I insist on it every time. How are we going to explain this to the people? By what criteria? And by what criteria we will explain to them that Sandzak has the right to special status, according to Sulejman Ugljanin, and 63 municipalities in Republika Srpska do not have the right to independence. And by what criteria? Where does that say? According to what international book of international public law? They all the time you tell them -- people, let's make a compromise solution for Kosovo, they tell you openly, and I want you to know, some of them say, the only compromise solution is Kosovo's recognition, so we'll see what you get in return, but we haven't figured out what it is yet, but forget about the territories, forget about the people. The other thing is -- don't solve anything, stay away, just like the situation in the European Parliament now looks like. Whatever we tell you, however we tell you it will survive the EU, it will remain the EU. Each decision will be ten times more difficult than it is today, and that means that each decision will be tenfold more difficult for us, especially positive for action. So these are the real things we're facing today. The question is, what is it that we can do? I was thinking whether, Mr. Jovanovic, I personally made a mistake not to bring it and I had a difficult discussion at an internal party meeting, which we did not act as Albanians to bring everything before the final act of crazy moves, as they make them, literally crazy moves. All those moves, those 16 dots I made, at least 12 are purely crazy moves. I came to the conclusion that it was possible that I was wrong, that maybe that's what Serbia was supposed to do. I've been assured by my associates, you haven't, you've kept peace, our position isn't like theirs, we'll never be their child, they'll never look after us and pet us like they do, and they won't let us go like they let them go. It's possible it's true, too, but it's all gone. And if I did and I didn't, now it's hard to assess whether or not I did. I tried to be responsible. I tried to be serious. Here, Anna's here, she's been having negotiations with Junker, now please correct me if I'm wrong about something, she came and started talking about KIM, talking to the head of the European government, the head of the European Commission. Anna started and said – you know, in Kosovo we have this and that problem. Official negotiations between the government of Serbia and the European government, the government of Europe, are held by Jean-Claude Junker. He says -- let's stop around Kosovo. It says – how to break up around Kosovo is the most important topic. Her Junker says - I'll tell you what's the problem so you get to the economic stuff to see that we're dealing with it. Junker tells her - the problem is that Vukic is serious and responsible, and these down there are unserious, that story we ended up going to another point. Is that what happened? I thought that gave us something. I thought we got respect, I thought we got the reputation of the Republic of Serbia, and I don't think I'm wrong about that, and I'm acting as a lunatic as they do from time to time, I don't know people. I really can't do that. I really can't make up what they can think of. It can't occur to me that we're bringing them taxes without them being something to us. It can't come to me, it's impossible, it's all the opposite of the principles I stand for. It's all the opposite of what our country is fighting for. On the other hand, when they talk about making their national states that way, people, we have to look, and our greatest interest is peace, is stability, is a better economy, are better social opportunities, but we also have to take care of Serbs wherever they live, not only Serbs living in Serbia and in KIM, but also Serbs in Republika Srpska and our people in Montenegro and Croatia. We just forgot to tell people that even today in Croatia after "The Storm" and "The Flash" we have twice as many Serbs as we have in KIM and that only in Banja Luka we have twice as many Serbs as on KIM, and that in Bijeljina we have more Serbs than on KIM. I'm not saying this because we shouldn't worry about our people in KIM because I live with our people from Kosovo and Metohija and I'm so happy that they came to this hall today, those representatives, those people who are guarding our hearth, those people who are guarding the Serb seed at KIM because we all left. My father's here from Chipulic, he's not coming back. Seselj's here from Herzegovina, he's not coming back. (Vojislav Seselj: I will as soon as I can. Yes, Vojislav, you want to leave for two days, you won't come back. People will not return, and these people are also guarding Serbia at KIM, preserving the survival of the Serb people in KIM, and that is... You've said one syntagma - insidious nationalism. Nationalism, they're different interpretations, different definitions in terms of love for their own nation there's nothing wrong, in terms of chauvinism there's a lot of bad. What I am afraid of is that our accelerated economic development and the highways that you have mentioned every Serb is proud of and every citizen of Serbia, and you will see how sweetly I will also fight with Bosniaks to open the highway to Duga Poljana and from Duga Poljana to Bolar, speaking of every citizen of our country. So, I have the fear of relying on that when the water is no longer above our mouths and noses, we feel that we are much stronger than we are. We are much stronger today than we were ten years ago and eight years ago but we are so weak in terms of the world's opportunities and the great countries that we are forced into as opponents, especially in terms of Kosovo. Serbia and America's ratio to GDP is 1:525, we're going to cut it to 1:500, we're going to cut it to 1:450 in a few years, but that's a huge, impossible difference. People, don't compare Serbia and America to our power. As people say -- you have Russia, you have Putin that opposes them, and the economic power of Russia versus the economic power of America is not for comparison. The second thing is that Putin managed to lift Russia's political role. (Vojislav Seselj: What about China? ) China is something else, but China is acting differently, China will not get into trouble openly, it will support our position, but it will not open up the way to get into trouble because China is patient. China can wait another 50 and 100 years, time works for China, and for us it doesn't work time, we're wasting time, and that's the only thing people can't understand. Over time, we lose everything and unfortunately Jovanovic is right. Just two more words about Dragan Markovic and what he was talking about, he had to go to Greece and I apologize for not answering as soon as he finished. I'm proud of the fact, and it has nothing to do with what people say - oh, you betrayed, you sold, you surrendered. For having units of veterans on our parade in Nis and police and military. That these men who fought for our country were not rejected. They're not snotty. These are the people who protected Serbia, who were willing to give their lives, some of them lost their hands, some of them lost their legs. For the first time, they are respected in this country and will be respected in this country, as well as those who fought on Pashtrick, in Kosharam. I don't think that we're doing anything wrong and reminding people that this should be done, no, that's what we're saying, we're going to do our best, we're going to keep peace at almost all costs, but how are we going to show respect for those who have been willing to give for their country. Do you know how lucky I am to have a boulevard hero from Koshar today? I'm so happy we're broadcasting these movies today. How happy I am that with the Republika Srpska we mark and the crime of "Storm" and that we are together to create a great, magnificent memorial centre in Lower Gradina, to make a place of pilgrimage for all Serbs, so that our children know what Jasenovac is, to know what the Prebilovci are, to teach children to talk about, to understand that, so that it doesn't happen again. And for that we have money, but I'm also willing to understand the victims of other peoples and show them that we respect their suffering, sometimes the one we caused, and I have no problem with it. Why did we make the best relations with the Hungarians? Why I talked to Victor Orban last night, do you think it's possible that we have a bad relationship between me and the Hungarians, when the two leaders are talking at midnight on the phone, because of the election success of one of them. So I am talking because we have reached an agreement on how we treat the Hungarians in Serbia, and how do they relate to the few Serbs who have stayed to live in Hungary and how do they treat Serbia? No one protects Serbian interests in Europe as Hungarians. Nobody. But no one. There is no country that can compare with the Hungarians and the Hungarian government. Let me tell you something. In every place. In every place. Let Dacic and Jadranka tell you if there's room for Siarto not, where you don't expect it, where it's hard, where it's courage to come out to protect Serbian interests, he appears. Orban, when I think you're all quiet, turns the whole story against us somehow, everyone comes up against us when I go to these various meetings and when they're migrants and everyone else. Orban, all of a sudden, you see that all our friends are kind of quiet and Orban's dead -- the cold one says -- well, here's the key question of what we're going to do with Serbia and don't talk to everyone else in the package, but to see Serbia in the EU. Tonight, the Prime Minister of Hungary told me - Alexander, count on every day, in every place, asking the question of Serbia's position and Serbia's faster entry into the EU. If we had five more of those friends, that caliber, we have them, and ten and fifteen friends, but not at that level that they're willing to fight for our country, our success would be even greater. And finally, as far as the Being Brothers are concerned, a difficult and big problem for us. It's a huge problem. People have been killed, crime has been committed, and whenever you ask for evidence from someone, they tell you - and why don't you arrest them and that, usually Guri Radosavljevic, and when you say - give us evidence, because we can't arrest people without anything, then there's no evidence. So let's just see that we're not running away from discussing such issues. I know that Serbs don't like to be said that the crime committed against the Genesis brothers has been committed. Give evidence, whoever committed the crimes will answer. And without proof of arrest, because they write a newspaper and because they write lawyers to someone else, Serbia is too serious to treat it that way. Thank you again for the discussion, I understand. And as for loneliness, just one word -- whether or not, I know how long my mandate lasts, as I am proud of the most difficult measures I have personally spent with the support of coalition partners, first of all, at that point, Ivica Dacic. This from 2014, which is why we have put the country on safe and stable feet, because you today too, Jovanovic, and when you are looking for, you cannot easily find problems in our economy. There are many, but problems that are not at a lower level today compared to what level they were at a few years ago, so neither can anyone be objective, which is what we managed to do thanks to the difficult measures and we didn't go to a referendum, because I didn't think it was a question we had to ask people about, because I felt obliged to save Serbia from bankruptcy. Today, I feel obliged to propose to Serbia the best solution if we are in such a situation. And if we will receive the support of the people, we are bound by the Constitution to ask the people for a referendum, and such a decision will be made by the people in the referendum. If the people make a decision contrary to that, on the same day, if it ever comes to that, and I am still in power, on the same day, of course, I will resign, and I have no problems. Because while I am in this place, the will of the people will be respected, the vox popul, the wolf's day, as the people say, and after that I would no longer have the right to offer the people a different future, because the people will choose the way they want. I think this is the most honest approach possible and that a more honest and honester and opener to the future of Serbia's citizens cannot be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-27-0.u55163	The word is from Ambassador Vojislav Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-27-0.u55164	Mr. President of the Republic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament. We were told first that I would have 40 minutes, then they changed it suddenly today and said only 20 minutes to the heads of the parliamentary group, so I'm going to do what I planned as a single comprehensive exposé, now to cut to the most important issues that seem to me current. First, our main problem is that Serbia has been in the role of donkeys for many years, and they have openly told us that we are an ass, who are constantly beaten and when he has really been wrong and when he has not, and from time to time they give as a reward a small carrot when they think he has been obeyed and deserves that carrot. Our goal would have to be Serbia as soon as it stops being a donkey. And with a constant oath in the European way, we cannot achieve it. Because whatever it is, whatever we're looking for is always blackmail -- you can't go to the EU without it. And what we will do in this EU, we have friends who will soon break up the EU, Marie le Pen, Mateo Salvini, Viktor Orban our great friend, with this agreement, we have set out to establish friendship with official Hungary as an opposition in the 1990s, remember that, I hope, Vukic, you were in front of our party in charge of it. And then we established a very friendly relationship and we're proud of it. Here's one thing you said I must first express my dissent, that Serbia has interrupted its state-law continuity. Once did, Kostunica did so by accepting that Serbia was admitted to the UN in November 2000, as a new member, although we struggled to have continuity. And now what happened? When we were tried by the BiH lawsuit, then they treated us as if we had kept the continuity of UN membership and condemned us, and when we sued the NATO pact countries, they said - we are not an EU member and we cannot do that. However, there is a continuity between the UN and Serbia's SRJ, although Resolution 1244. The Security Council also refers to the SRJ, we have this continuity, it has been recognised explicitly in the Constitutional Charter, and Montenegro as a federal unit has then committed itself to the collapse of the common state that it recognises Serbia's continuity and has never questioned it. Therefore, the continuity of the Republic of Serbia is completely impeccable and should be taken into account. I know everything that this resolution contains, most often we point out what might be positive for Serbia, a little bit of silence on what's wrong with Serbia. Of course, like any politician. But that resolution is still very important. Since we never gave up this international-legal continuity, you have no reason to worry so much. You inherited as power a very bad condition, and all that you said to the previous governments was true, since October 5th, Serbia has only fallen into ruin. Not only did the traitors lead us, but stupid and incompetent people were headed by the state. Even if they wanted to do something for the state, they didn't know it and they would do it the wrong way. That's where things have changed significantly, and that's what we as an opposition have to admit, but they haven't changed enough yet. When you set out in this negotiation process in Brussels, with these two packages of the Brussels Agreements, you gave, as a government, significant concessions to Albanians, and in return we received or seemed to have received only the Community of Serb municipalities. They're not giving it to us now. The Albanians do not give, and we expected their resistance, but no Western force supports that we must get it. That's how it works. I don't think that you, as President of the Republic, or the Government should continue to negotiate anything until it is resolved. Of course, for the start of negotiations the conditions without which cannot be lifted are those sanctions they brought on goods from Serbia. At one point, you said you weren't running away from your own responsibility for 1998 and 1999. I don't see what that responsibility is. We did not then vote for the paid Iri Ahtisaari, we were the only ones against, he was also Risticevic, I admit. He was also Risticevic, the correction. We were all against it at the time, but the Socialists brought in Vuk Draskovic to get most of the National Assembly. Whenever he needed an act of treason, there was always a wolf. Of course, then they throw it away, because he's not for anything. But you, Mr. President, keep your life still here, the SPO, although if it wasn't for your list, he'd have gone to the dump of history long ago, because no one's going to go with them anymore, not a single vote in Serbia. How come this overemphasizing humanism, I can't understand it. There's something else I'd like you to take as a well-intentioned advice. The President of the Republic, according to our Constitution, represents the Republic of Serbia in the country and the world, but the overall internal and foreign policy is run by the government. The President of the Republic does not automatically represent Serbia, and for each of your foreign policy performances, the government should first ambush, set certain frameworks and offer to the President of the Republic, as the man with the highest authority, to go and represent it. Of course, I know what your authority is now. That didn't have any presidents so far. That was what Milosevic had in the first phase of government, and later he lost. You have a party that dominates the Assembly, with an absolute majority of MPs, the absolute majority of ministers are under your control and I understand that this is not necessary by nature, but it is necessary for other, tactical reasons that every time you represent Serbia you can say it – I might accept it, but it will not be the government that I represent here. The President of the Republic, by theory, is by definition the head of the executive authority, but the formal head of the executive authority. Basically, all executive power is in the government, except for what is taxed in the Constitution as the authority of the President of the Republic. It's now a good maneuvering space that needs to be used. You don't have to take this kind of break with me going out to the National Assembly anymore. It's not the National Assembly now that's threatened by danger. We are all, above all, almost everyone, well-intentioned to do what is best for Serbia and to be able to find agreement when it comes to Kosovo. That's not a question, but it's a good thing you have to say next time - I have to go to the National Assembly with it. One more thing. Whatever appears as an idea in those negotiations, you must represent the Serbian Constitution and within its scope to act. If someone comes up with the idea of partitioning Kosovo, you need a general legal act on which to base your negotiating capacity. In my opinion, it could be a constitutional law allowing the Government and the President of the Republic to lead and negotiate which could produce a change in Serbia's borders. But it should be said immediately -- we cannot negotiate the division of Kosovo based on the current situation, we must start from 1690. Who drove the Serbs out of Kosovo when they were 100% of the population there? Well, the Turks, because the Serbs rose up to the uprising when the Austrian army broke into Turkey, Picolomini became sick of the plague in Skopje, died in Prizren, the new general was incompetent, the Turks settled down and went against the attack and killed everyone in front of him and the Turks had to flee. Now the Turks are a friendly country that doesn't threaten us, Chad. (Kedomir Jovanovic: So the lunatics were leading us again? Thus, it should be repeated continuously. You gave us a lecture today. Some of us know about these facts, some of us didn't know. It's not bad for the local public. That should be repeated to strangers. If we can't reach a 1690 state, we can do it before World War II. On the eve of World War II in Kosovo and Metohija, there were approximately half-half. Half Albanians, half Serbs and others, about. It's no big difference. Shall we share? Let's split the half-half, because, now, how can we admit that the Albanians, with the help of fascist occupiers, were banishing Serbs and killings, so that we can confess under the communist regime that they systematically persecuted and banished them, so that we can admit what happened in the war in 1999. This should be repeated continuously. Secondly, external things concerning Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia should be repeated continuously, and this must not be forgotten. We must not forget that Republika Srpska was a UN-protected territory and that the Croats expelled more than 200,000 Serbs, all that they found alive, they killed. It's not a final fact, it's a fact we must never accept. Give compensation, Croatia is now of vital importance that it has western parts of this territory, so give compensation, Eastern Slavonia, West Srem, Baranja, Dubrovnik and Dubrovnik coast. Will Croatia receive compensation? There's West Herzegovina, where are the Croats in the vast majority? Look, if it comes to the division of territories, then everything has to be on the table. Why can't we be satisfied with the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina? Because the Dayton Agreement has been violated, and Serbia is a guarantee of the Dayton Agreement. The occupiers used weak regimes such as the regime of the President of the Republic, Dragan Cavic, and Prime Minister Dragan Mikerevic, who all accepted the orders issued by the occupation governor, was then Paddy Ashdown as much as I can remember. Then, they urged Republika Srpska's leadership to just give up its constitutional powers, such as the military, for example. How was the division of entities performed? The Dayton Agreement envisioned international arbitration to address the border issue in the Brcko area. Then the arbitration said voluntarily -- we propose the Brcko District, that Republika Srpska be divided into two parts, and that the Brcko District has most Muslim population. The town of Brcko itself has most Serbian, but the district has most Muslim, Muslim and Croats in a vast number overpowered Serbs. Where is the exit to the sea of Republika Srpska? That serious people led this demarcation, Republika Srpska, by international law, has 49% going out to sea. Neum BiH stands at 21km and another tens or hundreds of metres. So Republika Srpska should have more than 10km. This should be repeated continuously. These are not things that have been forgotten, because the unnatural state is both in Croatia and BiH. As far as Montenegro is concerned, our government would have to take much more stringent measures, take measures to retort, apply rhetoric every time Montenegro acts in an unauthorized manner with members of the Serb people who live there as an indigenous people and protect the Serbian Orthodox Church. The government of Milo Djukanovic cannot legally declare the property of the Serbian Orthodox Church as state. This can't be done by any international treaty, by any convention. Next, we have some more problems to talk about. How did the West behave? Wolfie, they wanted to kill you back in 1999. Is your show scheduled for RTS at the same time that RTS was bombed? Did they want to kill you? They'll want to kill you again if it turns out they can't break you. (Philip Stojanovic: Domestic traitors. I think it'll be more subtle. I think they're threatening you the most this time... And I'm serious about that and take care of it. Don't promise you'll back off this time or that time. It'll be easy for you to back off if you experience a fiasco. You don't have to promise it at all, but make sure you don't experience it, and make sure you don't grant them a wish. You accidentally survived in 1999, when your mother was there at the same time, but not in that part of the building. Do you remember being scheduled to perform on Larry King's show? We didn't know he was going to be bombed, but just in case, you avoided it. As for possible international arbitration for Kosovo, we must not accept it at all. We have experience with Brcko and there is no, the Brcko arbitration showed what's waiting for us. Furthermore, the Shiptari are preparing indictments against Serbian generals and officers and military and police. You, as President of the Republic, should go public and say – at no cost will Serbian officers be delivered to any court outside Serbia and to any court that is not in Serbia's legal system! They can say and Kosovo is in Serbia. Only courts in Serbia's legal system can be competent. As for the Being Brothers, there's no problem anymore. In 15 days' time, under our law, that crime will become obsolete. By the law that was worth it at the time of the brothers' murder, being absolute obsolescence was 20 years. When we studied in college, otherwise absolute obsolescence was 20 years old. Is that right? You were an incomparably better student than me, and I'm a much better lawyer, but we're here somewhere. For all crimes it's been obsolescence for 20 years, except for war crimes, genocide and crimes against humanity, and the Being Brothers don't go into any of these categories. The motives for their murder are purely criminal. They were arrested at the border crossing, they served a felony prison, they were released, and the one who killed them, he found a lot of money with them, and for the robbery, he did it. There are no elements of war crime or crimes against humanity or genocide. Next, what are we supposed to do with an emergency? We should urgently demand that Russia and China take part in KFOR forces in Kosovo and that you resolve the issue, that is, the problem that is happening in Novi Pazar. Sulejman Ugljanin is now waving some resolution behind which Rasim Ljajic stands. Here, Rasim's gone.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-27-0.u55165	Time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-27-0.u55166	I knew he wouldn't come to this session.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-27-0.u55167	You've wasted your time.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-27-0.u55168	But Rasim supports him at the Bosniak National Council. If it wasn't for Rasim's support, Ugljanin wouldn't have any authority. This is a problem that the Serbian government has to deal with urgently.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-27-0.u55169	Time's up. You'll continue in part two. Thank you. The President has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-27-0.u55170	Dear Mr. Seselj, Serbia is certainly not in the role of donkeys. Some might want to treat Serbia like a donkey, but I fear that they turn out more often than they would in such a way. You're saying we swear on a European path all the time? No, we swear in Serbia, and I believe in a rational way that the European path is important for Serbia. You've never heard those oaths. I've never asked any European official or anyone from Brussels to open a chapter, let alone one. Apart from the fact that it is very important for us to be on the European path for various reasons, I think it is important that people in Serbia understand it. It's a question of not emotional, but totally rational, responsible and serious approach. You said we made big concessions. That's the way I talked about it. Essentially, we have strengthened the role of our people who have felt less persecuted in Kosovo and at the same time as someone who can take a more serious part in all important political events and yet our people have almost unitedly participated in all this. Do not interfere with the mind, as I have told you, in all the institutions in which we participate within the Kosovo legal system, as they call it, we have the opportunity to put people away and withdraw at all times, because these people are loyal, above all, to the Republic of Serbia and that is what those who are most irritated against us and therefore ask these people who have been present today to fence each day from Belgrade, Vukic, Ana, Dacic, this and that in every way possible. You said constitutional law should be passed. I think the Constitutional Law is passed only when it goes into the implementation of changes to the Constitution, not to determine a new platform. Constitutional law can't be passed on different occasions, but here I am as something weaker than you are to remind you of that little thing. What's important is that I agree with you as far as continuity is concerned and I insist on it. We have additional problems with our continuity compared to the SRJ, but I won't talk about them here, and what I was talking about, that's the continuity of the SRJ and just the decision of Vojislav Kostunica from the end of 2000, I don't want to say huge, but certainly no small damage in future talks and negotiations. When I spoke of my own responsibility, you were right. And today I'd just have something different if I had that kind of knowledge, and I think it was the obligation of those who had their bills and their figures for 1999. I would not have the courage or determination as those who have decided at that time that it is possible to oppose NATO, not because I am a coward, I think you know well that I am not, but because the obligation of state leadership, the highest state leadership, not everyone, the highest state leadership at that time, President Milosevic, is well calculated, to see well how much damage comes, how many lives we can have lost, and to understand that well and whether we can get out of it as winners or not. That assessment, to put everything else aside, was very bad. In doing so, I'm not saying that it was done on purpose, I'm not saying that he wanted to hurt his people, etc., I'm just saying that what I would certainly have done was either that mind or that I was dumber, whatever you want, I would have done differently anyway. As for you, you noticed one thing, I deliberately skipped only two decades. I've talked about all the years, and I congratulate you on that, it shows that you've been listening with attention, the only thing I haven't talked about, is from 1921 to 1939. Of course, I have that data and the percentage of Serbs in Kosovo was 39% in 1939. We were less than Albanians, 10-11% less than Albanians, so we failed to make up for it. I avoided it, I am sure of your well-known reasons for political because, on these grounds, because of those 20 years, between the two world wars, there were ambitions of the work of Albanians in northern Macedonia and the works of other Albanians to give Serbia, even the works of members of the Macedonian people, to accuse Serbia of genocide and the Serb people, because of the different things I would not talk about here, because many people can think of different ideas. Already, in 1948 and 1953, 27% are reducing the number of Serbs, as due to the operation of the Bali Kombetar movement, created from the beginning of 1943. He has functioned de facto since 1941, but even then because of the stronger birth rate and the greater natural age of Albanians, in 1948 we were 27%. Then we took different political measures, and as winners, we managed to keep it all safe until 1961, and later we didn't, but you really noticed this well. As for the charges against Serbian generals, I received a letter from General Pavkovic from the Estonian prison recently, I think he wrote to you or that you were in contact with him, as I could read it in a letter. So I got information from him that they were looking for a meeting with him, that he refused to meet with them and that he thinks it was wanted by Kosovo prosecutors special, as they already call them, with the desire to press charges against General Pavkovic again, as if it were possible to judge the same thing twice. It's a basic rule of law. Why am I saying this? Because they were already in the verdict of General Lazarevic in The Hague tribunal and General Pavkovic, General Lukic, all against whom they were making, anywhere, mentioned all the crimes of this world that took place and those that did not happen in Kosovo. It's impossible to find any more. They were not judged by them by saying that they participated in a concrete crime, but that they were responsible for the crimes committed in Kosovo and Metohija. How do you judge them again? And what is important is why Mr. Seselj asked, he did not ask that, I suppose, or, above all, not because of Mr. Pavkovic, who is already in the prison unit in Estonia, but because of General Dikovic. Our intelligence says they prepared the indictment for General Dikovic. I've decorated General Dikovic recently, as you know, with the Happy Order, and I would consider... (Vojislav Seselj: and prepare for General Delic to be decorated as well. ) As far as General Delic is concerned, we have not received such information for him, but whatever Serbian general thinks he should be prosecuted by those from Pristina, in any way, all I can tell you is that you know what our organs will do. I would also not believe that the Prime Minister would go against this kind of political will and that the government would make a different decision. I don't mind whether you want to or not, you won't have a better time to give you some sort of medal anyway. Don't worry about it. I'll make sure everyone who deserves it gets it. As for Russia and China in KFOR units, we have never received in the papers we inherited, and we have no explanation why Russian troops left Kosovo. I didn't ask President Putin, I'll ask him next time, to be honest. I'm trying to find the topics that bring us together and bring us together always, so it's not easy for me to ask him either, we have a lot of issues. One reason may be that they disagreed with the policies of the then authorities. There may be other reasons, but I really can't know that right now. Two more things. You asked about Vuk Draskovic. Maybe it's my fault, and it's my fault, and I know the ratings of politicians well, but I know well, and I thought as you know, not once said it, but many times, I said that there was no attempt to commit a serious crime against Mr Draskovic. Unfortunately, it was. Maybe, somewhere if you want, maybe I don't have the right to do that, maybe that's why the party I'm taking to judge me, but it's not about something else and not always because of a policy that I don't have to agree with, but because of that, and I know that there have been more attempts at his murder, some kind of responsibility for the words that I've said that haven't been true. As for the Raska area or Sandzak, as you said, I want to show you a few things and I will repeat that, Mr. Seselj, there is no danger to the constitutional and legal order of the Republic of Serbia, none. It's such a nice subject for everyone to play on their newspapers. Suleiman Ugljanin doesn't have any capacity, and when I tell you that, you know exactly how cautious and careful I am when I say things like that. If we really endangered the order of the Republic of Serbia in any way, we would have solved this problem within 24 hours and I am telling you with full reality and full responsibility, because I know how much Bosniaks want peace, how much they want to maintain good relations with their neighbours, Serbs. I also know how bad the presidents of municipalities and officials felt because of what he said and did because these people know that this highway will build Serbia for them too, those people know that factories will bring Serbia to them and no one else will. It also harms the Bosniak people in Bosnia and Herzegovina. As for Rasim Ljajic, Rasim Ljajic disagreed and Rasim Ljajic immediately went public and opposed it. (Vojislav Seselj: Ali supports "Vakat is" in the Bosniak National Council. You are in the Bosniak National Council, and you are with those who pull the Old Town signs in power, so I didn't transfer it to you, so let it go. What is important for people all over Serbia to know, I ask Bosniaks both in Pazar and Tutina and in Sjenica and Bosniaks living in Priboj and in Prijepolje and Novi Varosha, only that they do not buy these tricks of those who no longer represent anyone, those who no longer mean anything. As long as they don't buy their tricks. I'm telling you people there's nothing he can do, he can't endanger anyone and nothing. He can't do anything except cause damage to Bosnia and Herzegovina. Bosnia and Herzegovina is the biggest damage. And I can't understand that anyone who comes to him can't understand that. Have you noticed that without any anxiety we receive them? And they're not the same Republika Srpska and what they say from their side of Sandzak. Republika Srpska is the constitutional category of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the constitutional category. Sandzak is no constitutional category. We let go, there's no problem. And do you know why that is? Because we are safe, secure in our legal order, secure in their no possibility, there is no possibility of endangering the Republic of Serbia. And I want to tell all Serbian citizens that they don't have to worry about it. Our authorities, the competent state authorities, law enforcement and justice bodies very quickly and very easily would have any potential problem in that and any other region where we have sovereign authority, where we have our police and our army, without any problems solved. Finally, you said, you were talking about Republika Srpska and Republika Srpska, about the Republic that it was a UNPA pink zone, so they were changing legal modals, which is why, Mr. Seselj, for the first time in years, we started with it five years ago, not for the first time, not fearing the hickeys and the haranga being led against me personally and against the country I represent. In Croatia, we have just begun to mark the crime of "Storms", that we are not hiding from anyone, that we are not hiding tears, suffering and the suffering of our people, and I am very proud of that fact, and we will continue to do so. As for Republika Srpska, we support Republika Srpska, more than any other government, both in money and in support of direct projects, not on the story, not on the drilling of the chest, but on concrete works, as all representatives of Republika Srpska say. We support the Republika Srpska within Bosnia and Herzegovina, because Serbia will not destroy peace or stability in the Balkans. And it's our behavior and it's our responsibility. As for the concessions, to end it, I think what we did was the smartest possible in the most difficult conditions. Again, I will say once again, seven years when some ruled since the 1990s it took us to experience a difficult fate at KIM. And I'm not saying it's just our fault, not even close, not at all, I'm just talking about difficult and international circumstances. After that, we had some better circumstances, so we had an even worse disaster in 2008, an even more difficult disaster. After that, we have harder relationships and harder things. You have nothing left to lose, and we have managed to bring Serbia back into play, not only Serbs with KIM, but to bring Serbia back to play and that without Serbia, although they have already solved everything, although they have already confirmed everything, and the most powerful countries in the world with their decisions and their solutions, Serbia, again, as little as we can, ask and without Serbia can't make the final decision. I think it is a great success for our country and that it is a great success for many people who have been patient, patient, serious policy, responsible and hard work, have managed to bring Serbia into a different and unmatched better position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-27-0.u55171	What's up, MP? (Vojislav Seselj: Replica. But you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-27-0.u55172	I didn't expect any more. Mr. President of the Republic, run, Dacic, for the president to hear me well. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Russian President Vladimir Putin's term of office ends in 2024. Of course, Mr. Putin is in full physical and mental strength. The Russian people, and all Slovenian peoples, at least those Orthodox, want to be in power for a long time, not only in Russia, but also in the Slovenian world. And on its occasion until 2024, the unification of Russia, Belarus, Kazakhstan and probably Ukraine is being prepared, if Ukraine is to return to the arms of Russia's mother, to a certain confederate, something between the Federation and the confederate, where only foreign policy, military and monetary policy will be common. I believe that Serbia should move in that direction, in time to participate in that integration, because this integration with Russia, Belarus, Ukraine, Kazakhstan, perhaps Ukraine, but Kazakhstan as sure, and some other countries, would give us many privileges. I count, in any case, the price of oil and gas as it is in Russia and many other things, and all the raw materials at Russian prices, and of course, our products to be placed on that huge market. I think our moves in that direction would cause a storm in the west. First, verbal aggression, like Ceda Jovanovic, and maybe even bigger... (President: Time. Two more sentences, Maya. This thing that interrupted me, Chad. Give me two sentences. (President: Finish. ( ) On the other hand, we can be approved to try with some major and more significant concessions. If, as a real danger, they are threatened by Serbian integration with Russia, Belarus, Kazakhstan and other countries, I am convinced that they may be more prone to much, much greater concessions than they have ever thought of. It's a hickey that gets in every variant.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-27-0.u55173	Thank you. The word is Balint Pastor.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-27-0.u55174	Dear President of the Republic, respected members of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, has been thinking that the issue of Kosovo and Metohija is a Serbian issue, i.e. a question for Serbs and Albanians. In the SVM, we believe that this is not an exclusive issue for Serbs and Albanians, but it is a question for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia because this issue depends on the future of the Republic of Serbia and all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. That's why we participated in all Kosovo sessions since 2007, right here. This, if I counted correctly, is my seventh chance here at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to tell me about this very important issue. But things have changed dramatically since 2012, because at the meetings of the National Assembly on Kosovo and Metohija by 2012, this house adopted declarations and resolutions, whose common denominator was that these texts were unrealistic, contained some formulations which were not apparent, but still the vast majority of MPs in that period from 2007 to 2012 voted in favour of these texts to show some false national unity. What has changed since 2012, is that there is much more real talk about this issue and that both the President of the Republic and the Government are far braver and more honest on these issues. You, President of the Republic, are very realistic about these issues, not just here today in the National Assembly, but all these years since you've been President of the Republic and before that, the Prime Minister. I think our society needs a true, realistic approach, that citizens need to be explained, just as you did today, what was 50 years ago, what was 100 years ago, what was 200 years ago, that the general public would understand why the Republic of Serbia is in this situation today, why Serbs at KIM are in the situation they are in. You have spoken several sentences today that are very brave and also very, very true. You said that over time, we lose everything and that time does not work for Serbia on this matter. You also said that we will surely have more than we had in 2008 or before 2012, and that is certainly true because it is clear to all how you fight for the interests of Serbs at KIM and how you fight for KIM and we support you in this fight. We have done this all these years, as we have supported you and in making those measures that were not popular. We also voted in favour of reducing pensions, we also voted in favour of banning employment, we also voted in favour of banning salary increases several years ago. Since then, some of these measures have been put out of force due to the results of fiscal consolidation. As you know, we, as part of the ruling majority, voted in favour of all these decisions. We will continue to support both you and the government in making these difficult decisions, and the only thing we ask in return, if I can put it that way, is a realistic approach and that we are all telling the truth, as you are today telling the truth about this issue. What I want to underline is not the first chance I'm going to talk about these things, but I want to do it again today. If anyone understands the Serbs with KIM, it's the four of us in these benches. The Duke Hungarians understand you perfectly and support you in the fight to preserve your identity, for all rights. We do not want to compare the position of the duchy Hungarians and Serbs with KIM, because there is one big difference. We, the duchy Hungarians in 2019, should not in the Republic of Serbia be anxious for our safety. You in kim need, unfortunately, to fright for your own safety. But even for the duchy Hungarians, the situation wasn't always the way it is today, and that's what I want to say in this very tall home, it's not the first chance I'm going to talk about it, but now I want to say it again. On June 4th, it ends 99 years after the signing of the Peace Pact in Trijanon. Ninety-nine years have passed since the moment that the duchy Hungarians are citizens of the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians, and the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, and various forms of other Yugoslavia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, Serbia-Montenegro and the Republic of Serbia. The situation wasn't always the way it is today. I'd like to give you one piece of information. There's Minister Sarcevic. I talked about it on several occasions in various stands. I never talked about it here in the National Assembly. In the '20s, it means a few years after our ancestors woke up in another country in 1920. So these 20 years in the area of today's AP Vojvodina, there were 4,000 departments in the Hungarian language in primary schools. It's a period of King Alexander's reign. During the night, 3,750 of the 4,000 Hungarian - language departments were abolished, harshly speaking. So out of 4,000 there's 250 left. For high schools, these figures are the following, out of 71 departments, only two departments in Hungarian in high schools in 1920. Today we are in a position thanks to the policy of the President of the Republic and the policy of the Government of Serbia so that we can fight to open a Hungarian language department in the Republic of Serbia with five students. At that time, 20 years ago they were abolishing the department with over 30 students. I mean, things are getting better. I mean, living as a member of a minority community isn't a simple thing, and it takes generations to heal those wounds. I think the duchy Hungarians can speak of it most or most authenticly in the Republic of Serbia, because I say in 1920, two thirds of the territory and one third of the population were taken to Hungary at the time. Three comas of three million Hungarians woke up in another country, in the Kingdom of SHS, Romania, Czechoslovakia, then Soviet Union. And to see injustice, even Austria received a fraction of Hungary's then. I think that these things should be spoken of not because the President of the Republic doesn't know it, knows it perfectly well, but because of the general public, these are some historical facts that need to be spoken of and I think that these parallels should be considered even though things are incomparable. But because of everything I've been saying, we support the government of the Republic of Serbia as much as we support not only the moral but also the material support of the Serbs in KIM, both in the north and in the south. So, you will never hear from us those sentences spoken by representatives of some, so to speak, under the allegations of Serbian parties in the Republic of Serbia. Why do you give so much money for the Serbs on KIM, we fully agree with that. Support all the projects you supported, strengthen Serbs on KIM, that is the interest of the Republic of Serbia, that is the interest of that community there and that is the interest of the duchy Hungarians. We support this kind of policymaking as much as possible. What we ask you to do is do everything in your power to somehow come up with a compromise solution and to make sure that the solution is peaceful. I know you're fighting for it, and I know you support it, I know it's not up to you or just you, but what is certain and some have already spoken about it is not a question, and it doesn't matter when the Republic of Serbia enters the EU. But the most important question is whether there is a future for our children in the Republic of Serbia, whether they will be able to live decently, and that depends not only on the measure of fiscal consolidation, but also on some political decisions. Will we be able to stop the outflow of the population of the Republic of Serbia, regardless of nationality? We may be here as the duchy Hungarians to a greater extent because the vast majority of the community has Hungary's citizenship and with Hungarian documents can travel across Europe, can start working relations, etc., but many are coming from the Republic of Serbia. We need to see if there's a future here. We sincerely believe that there is a future in the Republic of Serbia and that there is a need to live there, that those who went to give them a chance to return to the Republic of Serbia. That is why I want to thank you for allowing you to support the financial support of the Hungarian government to our citizens. Over the past three years, 250m euros have been invested through the Prosperati Foundation by the Hungarian government for various projects. I must also say that not all countries have had that view of these options as the presidents of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Serbia and we are certainly grateful and I think that we should do everything together in the interest of the Republic of Serbia being a country in which they will be able to live in 30 and 50 years, and 100 years. In the next few years, I won't tell you what's going to happen in 50 or 100 years, but for the next few years, I can tell you that we will certainly be partners in making these honest and courageous decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-27-0.u55175	Thank you. I have to delete the list. The next reported is Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-27-0.u55176	Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, the Honorable President of the Republic of Serbia, the Honorable Prime Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, brothers and sisters from Kosovo and Metohija. You president didn't want to give much detail about how you were welcomed today at the entrance to the National Assembly. You are welcome worse than entering the Croatian Parliament or entering parliament in Pristina. Bosko Obradović, according to his well-tested recipe, probably organised an ambush on you by his mentor, Dragan Djilas, with the intention of taking physical action with you and to clear and shadow the session of the National Assembly. That's what the people need to know. So that's what Bosko Obradovic did as a perjanica of Dragan Gilas, the same Dragan Gilas, who signed an agreement with the people on February 6th, and I have it in my hands, and there is no Kosovo and Metohija anywhere in this agreement with the people, but there is the president of the Republic of Media and the first point of the agreement is that to the people of Dragan Gilas, we commit to a common fight for free media, in translation into a language that Dragan Gilas only understands, these are seconds, they are commercials and they are millions in his pockets. That's what the people need to know. As President of the Republic, you probably didn't think you had the right to do so openly and clearly say, "I, as a MP, have the right to do so." You've given very extensive historical reminiscing about what's been happening to us in the past. I don't want to say all 20 minutes, but I want to say one thing. As Serbs, we have no right to any adventure. I'll remind you of only one date that is the paradigm of our heroism, but also our national tragedy. It's March 27th. On March 20th, on the night between 26th and 27th, a group of officers organized a military coup, brought down the government of Cvetkovic-Macek and on the morning of March 27th 1941, Winston Churchill said this morning Yugoslavia found its soul. It has not been three days, it has been quite clear that Hitler will attack Yugoslavia, Prime Minister Dusan Simovic sends Momciel Nincic, Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia to Berlin to tell him that the military coup is the internal matter of Yugoslavia, that we remain faithful to the three-way pact. He couldn't convince Hitler. On April 6th, Belgrade was bombed and thanks to its March 27th heroic but adventure act, an unprecedented pogrom over the Serb people happened. If it were not for March 27th, there would never be an independent state of Croatia, there would never be kings, there would never be Kragujevci, there would never be a shooting of our people in Machva, there would be no Cypriot crimes in Kosovo and Metohija. That kind of adventure, that kind of heroism, and when you know in advance that the thing is lost, we Serbs today have no right. You've listed several important statistics here today. In that same Second World War, every seven Serbs lost their lives, and every 49 Englishmen lost their lives. Look where the Great Britain is now, and where are we Serbs, and does anyone recognize this role we played, anti-fascistly in World War II? A little bit. Why am I saying this? It's not time to be adventurous, it's not time to bang on hero's breasts, like you said yourself, we don't have any more people to throw away, we don't have any more kids to get hurt, and those who want to fight for KiM would want to sit in Belgrade cafes and have other people's children pushed into war. You have here Mr. President listed several bad decisions made by the government from 2000 to 2012. We mentioned discontinuity with the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. So it is true that Vojislav Kostunica in November 2000 sought admission to the UN of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia as a new state. And that's another argument in the hands of our enemies to say -- the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia of 2000 is not the 1999 Federal Republic of Yugoslavia concerned by UN Security Council Resolution 1244. As for continuity, it's not very good for Serbs. The blood and torture of Serb soldiers and the Serbian victory of World War II have been achieved by those who have never had a country in modern history. When we talk about continuity, we are not only talking about the continuity of constitutional law but also about international law. Slobodan Jovanovic says – on an international basis what is a state? A series of international contracts. International agreements concluded by the Kingdom of Serbia today are probably part of our fault, and Slovenia, and Croatia, and BiH, and Montenegro and Macedonia. One historical fact, a historic curiosity, Andrija Artukovic, the Ustasha minister of justice, was delivered to the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia on the basis of an extradition contract, which the Kingdom of Serbia concluded with the United States. That's why the issue of continuity is important. By wrong DOS policy, we have lost some continuity and this is an unforgivable mistake of those who, coming to power in 2000, said that KIM is only a democratic issue, nothing else, not national, not political, not historical. You, Mr. President, have listed here a whole series of wrong decisions of the former regime. I found one decision. One decision that flagrantly, unequivocally speaks about what was the intention of those who came to power in 2000, and that's what I'm going to end for today. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, otherwise the signator of this decision, Ms Gordana Comic, National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, decided at a session held on 27 February 2002 to suspend the validity of the Decision on the Education of the Temporary Executive Council of Kosovo and Metohija and Article 1 said - the decision on the education of the interim Executive Council of Kosovo and Metohija ceases to apply. 33/98. It was the beginning of giving up our rights, it was the beginning of giving up the presence of the Serbian state in Kosovo and Metohija. You have stopped this policy, Mr. President, and therefore you have unequivocal support, particularly of the Serbian people living in Kosovo and Metohija. The elections in these four Serb municipalities have shown which people in KIM trust. He trusts you and is wrong, counterpart Cedomir Jovanovic, when he said that you are not alone, you have the support of SNS MPs, you have the support of our coalition partners, you have the support of our brothers and sisters with KIM, but you also have the support of Serbian citizens. Do not underestimate our people, know our people very well and understand very well what is possible, and what is not possible today and what is the solution rational and what is the real solution for KIM. Someone said today - we didn't ask the people when we were cutting pensions. Well, we asked him. We asked him in the 2014 elections, he defined the people of Mr. Vukic as your policy. We asked him in 2016, he defined the people for your politics. We asked him in 2017 when you strongly won the presidential elections he gave you support. So, the people understand very well that you are the president of the Republic who takes care of the interests of all Serbia, and especially of the Serb people who live on KIM. So, Mr. President, you're not on your own, so go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-27-0.u55177	Thank you. The word is from Ambassador Alexander Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-27-0.u55178	Presidents of the National Assembly, the Honorable President of the Republic, the Honorable Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Ministers and Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, at first I must express a dose of grief as to why we are not in the Assembly in the way that we have discussed earlier today a matter that Serbia has been suffering safely, so for the last 30 years. The assembly debate, in which different views can be heard on the key problems of our society, are a reflection of the maturity of a country and the ability for this country to take part in a process that is participatory and how democratically decisions are made for the most difficult problems that exist in a society. Such discussions should be more frequent, discussions on arguments not about emotions, discussions on solutions. Discussions where we will seek what is best for the Republic of Serbia. Making arguments is a reflection of the respect of this coat of arms that stands in this building, these beautiful triplets and all that our ancestors have created for us today that we have our country of pride and that we love most in the world. The debate on Kosovo should be rational, because only if we are rational can we make good decisions. One good part of the burden of the past should be resolved, because when it began to get out of our control, and later most of the sovereignty over Kosovo, at least a third of the MPs who were in this meeting today were not even full-aged, the first me, the Prime Minister was not in any way involved in the process, even I think the President of the Republic was very young at that time. It is a burden left by some former voters who then simply voted enthusiastically for something they thought was a good decision. Turns out we missed out on the world's trends and the cost of that decision in the '90s. And it took us a long time to figure out what really happened to Serbian sovereignty over the land we love to call the world and that we believe has a special place in our soul. However, today is 2019, the second decade of the 21st century ends and we are on the verge of a third decade. For a country that wants to develop in an environment, which is promising at the same time quite dangerous, it is important to make decisions that are the choice of the future. Decisions that choose life, decisions that one society push towards such wonderful challenges that will happen. On the one hand, we have a burden on the past, on the other hand we have a certainty if we work smartly that we will be part of a big market where we will be able to compete according to good rules and have high rates of GDP growth and have a nice country at all. We're about to have a new revolution with five G networks, artificial intelligence. The world is beautiful and full of challenges that Serbia should respond to wisely and it would not be good if we were looking for solutions, looking through emotions and misunderstandings how strong we are, what we can do and, of course, avoid being foolishly saying that we can't do anything. Basically, when we observe today, Serbia and Kosovo, I can essentially agree that we do not have two exits, one is a state of frozen conflict, but I would rather call it the state of the frozen future, because every day in which we are not able, not just us, but as we would say for love and agreement need two sides, in this case probably another side more, we lose a part of our future. We are losing our ability to have new firms, to bring these companies to other markets, to keep people from leaving Serbia. It's a reality. What is worst in those who preach the frozen conflict, as the best solution, is the solution because it does not mean taking responsibility that is sometimes very difficult. The fact that in a frozen conflict I have never heard of how long it takes to wait for how many years, a decade, what exactly will happen then that the position of the Republic of Serbia is fundamentally changing and that when it happens in a year, five, ten, while we wait, we are in a position to be much better and to realize everything we have ever dreamed of. That's true, it was a dream about it 20, 25 years ago. I've just never heard anyone say it reliably. Also, in each of these analyses, I could never hear the answer to how we will compensate for these costs that are inevitably due to waiting in the frozen conflict, or in the taken-up future. The modern Serbian party thinks the deal is something good for Serbia, it's good for Serbs, it's good for Albanians, but we don't think the deal should be headless, to say that today we're giving up everything. A good deal should have some things that are the universal values of our future European house, which is the invulnerability of private property, the openness of Kosovo's market for companies from the rest of Serbia, the full protection of the cultural and historical heritage of Serbs from Serbia, the two-stage autonomy for Serbs in Kosovo, because in the current section of the cards, I am not sure that it is so realistic that we get in the south of Kosovo the possibility that autonomy of executive powers to sin and that we have one status that is called the greatest friendship status, and that says if Serbia and Kosovo give some third party some advantage, that we must offer each other necessarily. Well, if Kosovo wants to offer Albania no border control, it is perfectly fine that it must not be borderline towards Serbia either. If they want free flow of people and freedom of employment, then it must apply to Serbia and vice versa. Of course, except when it comes to agreements that have that nature. The fact is, if we are doing better and much more consecratedly than before, it can always be more committed to working on Eurointegration, Serbia will be an EU member long before Kosovo. That moment, I mean, maybe it's not enough of a good mechanism for us to protect our interests. Protection of interest is one of the most legitimate concepts that says that as all the countries of this Europe now have legitimate interests, at least that's what they say in Kosovo, sometimes very conflicted, so you can't be clear what anyone sees as their own interest, and Serbia has it. One of the best mechanisms that we can protect our interests, except, of course, that we always have our hand out in the air, which at first seems to, as I would say, maybe one unpleasant feeling, but that feeling is deeply Christian and deeply in the spirit of tolerance, to give your hand in the hope that someone will accept it. Our Eurointegration is a good way to protect our interests. If we get to seven to eight years before Kosovo, we will have the opportunity to protect our interests when it comes to human rights, market access, identity, everything. Not only when it comes to enclaves, north of Kosovo, but throughout Kosovo. Because, after all, the customers of our goods and services are not only Serbs, not Albanians. The statistics presented today also say that Albanians are happy to buy Serbian products and services and that is our interest. Our interest is to use the advantage that we have because of the bilinguality of Kosovo and the fact that our language is spoken there, it is a terrible resource and it is something that we should continue to insist on. If we have bilingual Kosovo, Serbia will be a much easier player. Fully be able to protect his own companies, be a factor that may someday, as I say, be observed in a better light. Sometimes I know that I suffer from optimism and belief that it can be much better than it's likely to turn out to be, but I can't escape from my nature and the realization that politics can be one wonderful act. The choice of life is the most important choice we can have in Serbia. The choice to look into the future, the choice to look at solutions that are sustainable. The modern Serbian party sees in what was the basis of the Brussels Agreement as a good basis, if that were to be fulfilled. We can't know if it's going to happen, after all, we're one smaller opposition party that doesn't have much of an impact on world flows, although when we talk to our friends from the liberal groups, we always mention these things. As many as we can, like people who, I say, believe in patriotism and patriotism, but don't like to be pushed publicly, because I think that's a lot of bad things that's done us in the past. I believe in work and stuff. We believe that every solution that is sustainable, even if not based on what seems best to us, the Brussels Agreement is a good solution that needs to be supported. And it doesn't matter whether this solution will be brought by the current government, the government we'll have in 2020, maybe some president of the second or the same in 2022, it's important that we have a solution that people in Serbia can agree that this is a solution to the future, a solution that Serbia, I can't say, takes down a burden, but that opens up space for us to think about these other, beautiful things of economic development, which I was talking about at the beginning of the exhibition, the possibility of making a motor out of Serbia and Serbia. Not that we have pessimistic estimates of growth, because Serbia, which has managed to vote for regional stability, which would be able to cope with the disappearance of barriers to movement and goods and services and capital in the region where you have equal customs policies, would be a country that could have growth rates of five to six percent every year, provided that there are still rights and certain things that refuse people to invest. And that is a key issue, and it is my deep belief that such a rapid growth scenario would not be realistic, if we were not able to come to a good agreement, not to give everything, but to try to get as much as possible and to be present as a player in the Kosovo market. There's a lot of ways that we can attack that attitude, and I'm aware of that, and that's not something new. There are many ideas that are not ideas, because sometimes it is the easiest thing to write 1244 on a "Twitter warrant" and that is something that is the future in which we can step safely. On our part, I repeat once again, we think that the only thing that is, Serbia's long-term interest is to achieve a good legal binding agreement that will protect the interests of the Republic of Serbia and the Serbs in Kosovo and allow us to afterwards be able to commit ourselves fully to building Serbia's economy and Serbian society, which will be such as to truly be the engine of the Balkans. It is also important for the sustainability of the Serb community in Kosovo to achieve a 10-year plan that would invest up to about 150 million each year. That would be enough to create sustainable companies, sustainable jobs and a sustainable future for 100,000 Serbs in Kosovo, so that there are not 50,000 in 10 years. Money alone is not enough, but we need to find a way not to throw that money into the wind, and that is the problem, but given, I am just repeating, the fact that we are going towards European society, we also have something that is good practice of the EU, and if an organisation has achieved good measures to protect the money from being wasted, even if it is happening with them, they are the ones who have succeeded. A good 10-year investment plan for all Serbian environments would help Serbs stay in enclaves both in northern Kosovo and see that they can live and work there. It's one thing that's very important. Also, one of the things that hurts people, which are our citizens, is those people we only remember when we see that turnout is 50 to 52%. These are the people who left Serbia a long time ago. People who left Kosovo about 30 or 40 years ago have problems getting Serbian documents. They're facing a lot of trouble. One of the things we should be working on is not to direct them to extract exclusively Kosovo documents, if they are loyal and considered citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The same applies to a kind of injustice that Serbs in Kosovo have, which is that they have the KS Serbian passports, which makes part of our citizens who cannot travel freely and are not in the visa-free regime. That's one deep injustice. Also, our constitution says that people are free to settle in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, as they wish, right now if you want to settle with Kosovo in the rest of the country, you have a problem doing so. Checks take six months. I know there's a desire for people to stay down, but I don't think it's the point that we're artificially defending them, but that's what they really want to see and that's where it's worth staying, even though life is pretty much hard. There are numerous and secure and every other challenge. Also, there are a lot of practical problems that remain, regardless of how technically the Brussels negotiations have gone well in many areas, but the fact that in northern Kosovo we have a hybrid system that maltenes in fact is a hybrid of the troupe, so it was, but today we have problems with people who, for example, are women, divorces and later come to great problems with property and all the rights that run from it. It's life and it's real questions that people who live there have and it's something to work on and solve. On our side, that's about what I was gonna say. What is the basis and what I will repeat once again, when we talk about Kosovo and all strategic issues in Serbia, it would be good to always talk about strong arguments, good arguments, that we stand behind arguments, because discussion is a good thing to come up with good solutions When we talk about Kosovo the first thing is to choose life, to choose the future, to choose the standard, to choose to fight for influence, not to fight for things that we know will not happen in the near future, if it will probably never happen, or not perhaps for our lives. It may be better if we fight hard for our interests to be present with 30% of the impact in Kosovo through peace and through recognition of reality than to dream of some times when we really had military force down there, but we didn't have an impact on real flows, economics and we didn't have the loyalty of the people who live there at all. When I talk about it and talk about Serbia's influence, sometimes I remember examples of my own ancestors who wanted to be Serbs and if they weren't Serbs. A Montenegrin who was my grandfather wanted to be a Serb and one of my grandmothers who was Russian wanted to be a Serbian. No one forced them to be, they simply wanted it because Serbia with what it offers and what it provides in the 20s and 30s of the last century was something that was a pymont in the Balkans and a role model that others wanted to imitate. From this I believe that the fact that we want a compromise that we want to build good relations, that we want reconciliation based on truth, that we want Serbs and Albanians to live one day in some completely different relationships and that the only example is that Boro and Ramiz, who, during World War II, are going to die. When I look at it, I would say -- it would be good if over the next decade we had a new Bora and Ramiz, who are going to make money, that it would be good for each other, that their families live well and that they know that the influence of Serbia in Kosovo is a good thing, and that it is a good thing that Serbs and Albanians should not be reconciled or loved as they used to be in Broz's time, but that at least they live side by side with each other, and those who want to live with each other. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-27-0.u55179	Thank you. The word is Gjorge Milicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-27-0.u55180	I thank the president. Dear President of the Republic of Serbia, the Honorable Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, the Honorable President, we must definitely proceed this time, no matter how difficult, no matter how easy this time is, and no matter how much we did not like it this time and to be open and realistic, first of all, to ourselves, when it comes to our own position in which we are currently in place. So, we don't have Kosovo today as we would like to have it, but on the other hand we haven't lost it as others would like, and they're not helping this absolutely no political parole, because 20 years ago Serbia has no authority, but Serbia has no full authority in the KIM space for a longer period of time. How much we're going to get out of all of this, from the whole process, is up to ourselves again, and from what you've made quite clear and precise, from us, from our willingness to accept the mistakes that have been made there and then and where they've been done. That's how it's been for the last 20 years. It's strange that he kept quiet about it, it's strange that it was lied about it, but one thing is, you're the first president of Serbia, and this is the first government of the Republic of Serbia to go before parliament, in front of the public, in front of the citizens and speak openly about this. Instead, we were told among other things by the EU and Kosovo, so KIM's unilateral independence was declared. Over a hundred states have recognised this unilateral independence of KIM. The faces on our warrants are the political leaders you, unfortunately, have to negotiate with today and talk to. Why was that kept quiet? Why did you lie about that? These are questions to be answered by those who fled the congregation hall today. They fled the assembly hall because they are powerless, because they are anemic, because they do not have the willingness, the ability and the courage to lead one reasoned, democratic debate, the democratic confrontation of opinions and that they finally say – what is the second time, what is the alternative for Serbia to go on Kosovo and Metohija? There are still a number of questions to answer, so let's ask them why they hid the border crossings, why they changed the resolution on the plane? Why did they transfer Kosovo and Metohija from New York to Brussels? Why did they help Kosovo by asking the wrong questions before the International Court of Justice? But if we didn't complain too much, the cowards ran away, like I said. What is factual and what is evident, therefore, is obvious, we will have to face terrible and unpleasant truths ourselves. And, just as we're going to have to do everything that people, President Vukic, first of all, legitimately elected president, are preserved from this whole process and come out with dignity, undefeated, uninjured, and in doing so you have the full support of the SPS parliamentary group. What is most important to us, without Serbia today, there is no solution to the Kosovo and Metohija issues. Most importantly, we are part of a compromise and today we finally have the right to ask for something, not just to watch something get kidnapped from Serbia. To get to that, it was necessary, and you know it very well, you know, you know, a lot of time, a lot of commitment, power and energy, and it seems to me, unfortunately, that it will take a long time to get to those benefits that we all expect, and yet we need to be realistic about ourselves and our own expectations, because we believe that truth must be the basis for finding every future compromise and just solution when it comes to the issue of Kosovo and Metohija. We can't stop. We must continue to provide full support to you, to provide full support to the Government of the Republic of Serbia in defending national and state interests and protecting Serbs in the area of Kosovo and Metohija. Dialogue is possible, of course, if the fees are lifted, compromise is possible, and conversation with Albanians is possible, if we insist and if we insist in the right way to defend and protect our national and real interests. Dear President, there is one quote I must use, and it concerns something that has been adopted, right in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The following is said: "Kosovo and Metohija cannot obtain independent status, nor the status of the republic, but autonomy according to the highest international standards within the Republic, Serbia, Yugoslavia. We do not accept any measure that would alter territorial integrity and sovereignty and try to separate Kosovo and Metohija. “ This is the content of the document adopted in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 1999. Today, I am fully convinced, the largest number of parliamentary groups would sign this document and put a signature on this, but would this solve the issue of Kosovo and Metohija? No, I'm sure he wouldn't. Mr. President, you've spoken plainly, honestly, responsibly and seriously as you've always spoken. I think you've in some way put an end to those media speculations that concern the talks that were held at the Serbian Orthodox Church Assembly. (Vojislav Seselj: Have you heard of Gligori, who has four children or five?) We can talk about it, but later. Now we have more important topics. And it's perfectly logical that you didn't talk about tactics and the next steps. That's what you were talking about in principle, but it would be illogical to talk about it today very specifically. With your presentation, you have confirmed once again that both you and the Government of the Republic of Serbia are not running politics under masks. So, not one story in Washington, one story in Moscow, the third one in Berlin, one in Serbia in front of Serbian citizens, but always the same when it's hard to go to the public and tell what's true and what's reality, and that's an indication that this government and you as president, but also this government, above all, is neither Russian nor pro-European, nor pro-American, but pro-American and that it fights in the right way to defend national and state interests. Citizens expect us to have a responsible and serious relationship when it comes to the debate on Kosovo and Metohija, when it comes to the dialogue that we are conducting today in the Assembly. What I want to say is, which I think is very important, and that is the great victory of four candidates for mayors in the area of northern Kosovo and Metohija, because this is how they showed unity and strength, first of all, of our people in this space. They showed willingness and courage to fight for the future to survive in these areas, because it wasn't a political flossula when I say this was a struggle for survival in these areas, but what's most important has shown that no one can share the Serbian people and no one can intimidate, to intimidate the Serbian people. President, allow me, it is completely unimaginable for me that there is a Serb who will call for a boycott of these elections, as I cannot imagine today there are no MPs in parliament coming right from Kosovo and Metohija. Well, what did they get the legitimacy for? Who are they protecting and defending? As I said, citizens expect us to have a responsible and serious relationship on this issue. I guess it's an obligation for all of us to protect Serbia's interests, huh? Of course, we will not discuss important matters under the tent as a tribal alliance. Of course, we will talk about this in the Assembly as a serious and orderly democratic society, and let those in the tent explain to the families why they did not vote for "Tian's Law", let them explain how they would help the Serb people in the area of Kosovo and Metohija in tents. I believe they have more important things to do today. I believe that there are far more important roadblocks in Belgrade and that this will help the Serbian people in the area of Kosovo and Metohija far more than will come here and lead the dialogue openly. I believe they have more important things to do, as they had more important things to do, I must remember that on the day of the unilateral declaration of independence of Kosovo and Metohija. Where was the president of the Republic of Serbia then? He had more important things to do in Romania. Where the rest of the ruling coalition was then, those Salon politicians who sat in cabinets and wrote press releases and so courageously and dignifiedly defended and protected national and state interests in the area of Kosovo and Metohija. So, you know, for me, it's a personal essential question here. Albanian separatists, you know very well, however politically they sometimes make them allegedly conflict or face or think differently, but in terms of Kosovo and Metohija independence, everyone thinks the same thing. The fundamental question here is whether in Serbia we all feel the same way. Unfortunately, no. A part of Serbia's political options on the political scene sees this as an irrevocable process and for a part of the political options on Serbia's political scene, in fact, a unilateral declaration of Kosovo's independence and Metohija is acceptable, but the position of you as president is clear, the view of the Serbian government is that Serbia will never recognise Kosovo and Metohija's unilaterally declared independence. Therefore, when we are conducting such dialogues, I think it is very important that we try to build as much consensus and unity as possible, because I think Serbia is as strong as it is unique. We need stability and no protests, no boycotts, no country's mourning to international organisations will help. On the contrary, they can only harm Serbia's interests and damage Serbia's interests, as many political parties are on Serbia's political scene, but should always bear in mind that one is Serbia. What's happening today in the space of Kosovo and Metohija, I'm going to say in a vocabulary that doesn't suit me, I don't use it, but the peak of political madness, I don't think anyone understands it anymore, is what they do and do so. Pristina authorities, but you've given reasons and I completely agree. The first reason, fear of political defeat and collapse at every turn, and the second reason -- a special court for the KLA. Rama and Thaci are openly talking about the idea of a great Albania. Imagine that you and the president of Republika Srpska were the organizers of such a gathering and that you spoke in a similar or identical way about Serbia at the meeting? What kind of pucks would Serbia get? How many double standards and double arches? It seems that the principles of unchangeable borders apply only when someone needs to reprove and punish Serbia. This is a big EU slap, but it's on the EU. The European Union keeps telling us to be calm and constructive and we act that way. As state leadership, you are acting in a peaceful and constructive way, but this is the EU's big slap and is not the first. The first was the non-implementation of the Brussels Agreement, all that was agreed through the Brussels dialogue, because, I'm sorry, the whole debrislation process, the whole of the Brussels dialogue was conducted just under the auspices of Brussels. Unimplementation is a slap and a credibility violation to Brussels. The resolution they adopted has absolutely no effect. What kind of genocide are we talking about? The bombing was a false charge of genocide, and this is the height of the pressure that was put on Serbia in the 1990s. No Hague indictment, Mr. Seselj, can correct me if I'm wrong, in no sentence of his own, realizes that genocide has been made, that genocide has been committed in Račko. I've read a lot... (Vojislav Seselj: Not a single crime. That's right. No forensics says there were children and women, but that they were terrorists. So, the executioners want to judge today. Terrorists who have expelled a nation, our people, from the space of Kosovo and Metohija today want to declare our country genocide, and ethnic cleansing has also been carried out by genocide against Serbs. 230,000 Serbs were expelled from Kosovo and Metohija. In 1991, 40,000 Serbs lived in Pristina. How much today, Mr. Guric? A hundred. In Prizren, where Ivica Dacic, foreign minister, was born, about 10,000 Serbs lived. How long does he live today? A dozen, maybe not so many. Well, whoever committed ethnic cleansing, genocide, unilateral declaration of Kosovo's independence and Metohija, I will say freely, fully clear and accurate, is the continuation of NATO's bombing against Serbia and the continuation of the aggression and pressure that is being carried out against Serbia. As far as you're concerned, Mr. President, it is very important that you show your readiness together with the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to go before parliament, before the citizens, and to answer those difficult questions and those most difficult questions. It is very important that you have a peaceful and constructive approach, as so far, that you have a clear view that dialogue has no alternative, but dialogue if you cancel the fees. So we're talking, we're not conflicting. We're talking about having a future. As for the Brussels Agreement, one today, well, I'll call it quasi politician is here in the lobby, since he didn't find fit to come to the assembly benches, he held one political monologue, because there's nothing left for them, they keep a political monologue here in the assembly hall... (Vojislav Seselj: Who was it? I don't even know his name, but I was just reading the report. He criticised the Brussels Agreement, the Brussels process. So, we have come into all this to resolve some key issues, but of course no one will allow the state of Serbia to be underestimated, humiliated and that you will, above all, do everything to preserve Serbia's dignity. We can't stick our heads in the sand anymore and wait for time to pass, because as long as time passes this question will get harder and we wouldn't have anything to talk about in the end. Brussels dialogue, as long as we are at a table where there is talk of Serbia's national and state interests, we are able to say something. When we are not at that table, and we are talking about Serbia's national and state interests, then decisions are made without us and there are no more hiding behind political passwords. I do not expect, Mr. Vukic, to be applauded by both Bosko Obradovic and the whole family of those tribal leaders. I don't expect that, and I don't care, but it's important that your willingness and courage, you and the Government of the Republic of Serbia give answers to key questions, to resolve the issue of Kosovo and Metohija, above all, recognize the generations that are coming, because we don't have the responsibility to leave this issue for generations to come. Mr. Vucicou, both you and the government have full support for the SPS parliamentary group. We believe that you are best protected by the state and national interests of the Republic of Serbia and that you are best protected by our people in the area of Kosovo and Metohija. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-27-0.u55181	Thank you. Before I give my word to the president, let me inform you, tonight we'll be working until 10:00. Tomorrow we will continue, of course, with the debate. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-27-0.u55182	Now that the president of the National Assembly has said by 10:00 p.m., I'll be here tomorrow until the debate is over. If you're ready, I won't be out of the O.R. by midnight. I'll listen to everyone and I'll talk and answer to everyone. Four speakers were in the meantime and I wasn't answering for a word, so I want to say a few words. Mr. Stevanović, I'm surprised by your speech. Ninety percent of that I could take right away, make a joke, which means we're going to have to pay political attention and find topics where we disagree and seriously criticize you, but serious speech and thank you for your contribution to the seriousness of the session. I want to thank you, Mr. Balint, Mr. Pastor. Don't be mad about this, Balint. I figure even though I can't say we're friends, if we were very, very good acquaintances, and I wouldn't mind being friends. So, you were talking about something I'm afraid that one part of our public didn't want to hear it all the way. I tried that at one point, speaking of the book of Nile McGregor "Germany", to talk about what it looks like, as it looked to you, and not to talk about Lucjevac, the Donajska Centre, the Chamber, not to talk about many territories in today's Romania, in today's Serbia, in today's Croatia. So, even Austria, not far from Shopron, and I think it's very important that people look at the Hungarian example and see that the country can be very strong, because that's how we have been left without our territory inhabited by Serbs in the territory of Croatia, we stayed. Today, Montenegro is independent and with an official 28% of Serbs, but this does not mean that Serbia is weak and should not mean it. I am grateful that you noticed that we are doing something to improve education in the Hungarian language, and we do not mind, and I am proud that you can open a class in the native language with five students. Everything you think we can do, and not just for Hungarians, but for members of other minorities in our country, we are ready to do it, although you all know it, and you know perfectly well through your people in the Serbian government that it is not a small cost to the country, that at a time when we are conducting heavy negotiations with the IMF and the World Bank, therefore, where we always look at how and how to ensure the safety of our public finances, but it cannot be a cost that will not be accepted from our side. One more thing, I'll tell you quite frankly, I've talked to your father recently, and as two older people, we've sat down together and we've realized something. I told him – you see Istvane, I know earlier, because my mother from Vienna, half of Serbs, half of Hungarians and the streets knew each other where, as you know, the Serbs in Piyada and here in the good part of Mosha Pijada, all here according to Peter's village, Hungarians. Now, we've always had some here, even though they've lived in peace, always -- here they are, Hungarians, they have their own; as the Hungarians have said -- these are Serbs, they have their own. That, unfortunately, also says the fact that we Serbs speak very little Hungarian, which doesn't always speak well of us, but we don't have any suspicion today, so we weren't afraid of Orban's investments or those 165 million. We were not afraid and you got permission and without problems and Jorgenka Tabaković, or NBS for the Vojvodjanska Banka, where the majority Hungarian capital is OTP. So there was no problem when Victor said he wanted to invest in TSC, that club. I'd like to point out to the rest of you who don't know how to look at the terrain in Backo Topoli. So in northern Serbia, how they were done and how much money the Hungarians invested in it and there will never be any problem. Every dollar, dollar, euro, forint, whatever you invest, we don't have a problem with that. We have no problem with the Hungarians. They used to think about each other less about who they'd be to make some of their interests come true. We don't think that way today. We want the more Hungarians, like everyone else, to stay to live in Serbia, we don't have enough people, there won't be anyone to work tomorrow, there won't be anyone to make a gross domestic product tomorrow, and Hungarians are terribly valuable people. So I ask you to just pass on our messages, not only courtesy, but I would say both sympathy and love to the Hungarian people and to all other minority members living in Vojvodina. We don't have any problems. Everything we can achieve and everything we can do and it has nothing to do with international legal standards, it has nothing to do with meeting some standards, some regulations that we have to show to someone that we've done something, it has to do with our desire not only to live together, but to build a future together, and so we'll be stronger. Thank you again and for your understanding of the Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija, because I hear it from Victor Orban. I tell them that Viktor Orban always told me about it, they wouldn't believe me, and now I'm going to add something, I asked the Prime Minister of the Hungarian government, recently in China, to ask him to make an investment, such as "Tis Automotive" in Sainta, etc., that one investment of a device in Republika Srpska, because because of the international position of Serbia is very difficult to provide. Viktor Orban promised me that, and as I hear he will receive both the leadership of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Republika Srpska in the coming period, to help them. I thank the Hungarian prime minister, the Hungarian state and the Hungarian government endlessly for such steps towards the Serbian people, but also for all other citizens of Serbia. I also want to say, you took Mr. Martinovic a subject that is very difficult to take and talk about, congratulations on courage, I would never dare take March 27th because I know what many would say to me, but you said it very precisely and thank you for that. Thank you very much for that. I've learned one thing from Mr. Seselj. He told me even as Mr. Stevanović said, while I was very young – to Vukic, remember, nothing shorter in Serbs lasts, I would say that in all people, I would not say that it is characteristic of Serbs, than thanks. That's why I never... (Vojislav Seselj: I don't remember that. ) Da Vojislave, that was every third sentence, like today, but I didn't need to rely on others and I don't need to make difficult decisions, that kind of help, but I am grateful that you said it would be because I know that difficult times are coming and that in these difficult times there will be a lot of those who will seek Leibnic's sufficient reason to go away from another side. Believe me, I know well who will remain to the end to fight for the ideas of normal and modern Serbia, and who will be the first to leave it. And I don't have any fear of it, it's absolutely certain that regardless, I will fight for normal, decent and modern Serbia. Mr. Milicevic, you have said more than one thing, I am grateful to you and your political party for the support you provide for our overall work. I tried not to talk ad personam about those who aren't here today, not because I wouldn't have the right to do it, because I didn't run away from this room, they did. I came to where they called me and where they sought me in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which they once again adopted, not our majority. But some did not respond to discussing such an important topic in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and they would like to talk to us, one day would be with me, another day would be without me, so they don't know anyone else to discuss strange tycoon requirements, who would run RTS, I guess because of the seconds and the money they were taking, and who would manage REM. I don't know what it is or what it's like to be in charge of some REM, but I can see that they all know. But that's why KIM knows everything, but they don't go into parliament and face anyone's opinions. It's like fighting signs. We'll master and defeat that sign, and we'll smile sweetly when we rip it out of the concrete. We're very strong, but it's because the sign, you know, hasn't happened in nature yet, that the sign can strike back. Since someone here can fight and can answer questions, then we won't participate, then it'll be realistic. Did we have any more important issues? Then it'll be a political circus. Well, you're making a circus, man. Well, you chase people down the steps of the National Assembly, you want to beat them. You're bragging about it. I wonder now, and imagine he came to me, and now what? So what now? What are you gonna do? What are you gonna do? What are you proud of? What are you guys doing? Is there anything you can call a different name than fascism? What's that? You're chasing someone? The second question is – can he do that and what would be the result? Put it all aside. What are you doing? Imagine, you're chasing someone, I'm not letting anyone into the National Assembly, and now I'm going to beat him or I don't know what to do. Guys, that wasn't even 1933 or 1934. It was never in this country, it never happened. I've asked everyone here, and there's both Nenad and Cedomir and Vojislav and everyone else I can think of, it's never been in Serbia. No one has ever forbidden anyone to enter the National Assembly. That's not normal, people. That's never happened. What must you have in your head to think of? Someone threw it away, nothing. I'm sorry. Yeah, between Ljotic and nothing, you don't know what's harder. However, I think it is important that we spoke, we had good, important talks at the Serbian Church Assembly. I think people understood all the seriousness. We don't have to agree to everything, but we have to respect the role of the church that preserved our people. You know, our sanctity is also the monastery of Krka. If it wasn't for our Krk monastery, we'd have few people in Dalmatia and Dalmatia Zagorje left. If it wasn't for the Krupa monastery, who would stay in the Ovrovec and around Zrmanja? If it wasn't for our other sanctity, not only in Republika Srpska's territory, but throughout BiH, who would have stayed and survived? In my father's village, in Chipulić, today you have 50 or 60 Serbs to live, no more, but those 50 or 60 Serbs gather every day only around the church, nowhere else. We have a little church, and that's where people get together. And just so you know, all the four children we have, all the four children who stayed in Chipulić, they are now going to the Catholic class, that Tomislav, that you know, although there are only 10% of Croats left in Bugojn, because people in that way whether they are guarding Christianity or I don't even know what it's about, but it's happening on the ground. So we have to respect the church, but of course, the church has to be separate from the state and the church can't make those decisions. And I didn't go out there to salt someone's mind, or to convince anyone of anything, but to answer their questions. So I went after their call and answered their questions. I responded in a serious way. And as you can see, nowhere in any newspaper did you get what I told you, what they told me about Anna Brnabic. I thought I was always ready for every question to answer. I live with politics, live with Serbia for 24 hours, to have an answer for everything. I've been confused for at least ten seconds. I was confused for at least ten seconds when I saw that there were no more arguments about the Resolution, that there were no more arguments about the Brussels Agreement, when it was what they asked about Anna. Then I waited, so I got somewhere, it's been a while, so I managed to figure it out. But all in all, I think it was very useful, very good, that the patriarch led in an extraordinary way, understood, and he was behind the demands and attitudes of the church, but he understood somewhere the state policy and the struggle we fought, as well as a large number of bishops, to be quite open. Thank you for the example, and I'll finish with that, about this statement you've read. That's the kind of statement we've brought in a million, that kind of declaration and resolution we've brought in a million, and we've always brought it in the moment that we were supposed to show that what happened didn't happen. And that was one of the reasons I didn't chase to come every year or every six months before the National Assembly. P.A., what can I tell you? To get political points, to chase ourselves here on the most important national issue that we all need to feel the same way. I've been waiting for us to have something to offer you. Now we're here because I want to tell you that we're at a dead end, that we don't have a continuation of dialogue, that we don't know what we're going to do with taxes, but if there's a chance, that we're going to fight for a compromise and that's our policy, because it's better to have a compromise than to have a frozen conflict that's going to freeze and make us a disaster. I think that's fair. I think it's normal, it's responsible and it's a serious relationship. I am grateful to all the MPs today for the responsible discussion, on a serious discussion, for showing that we can also be committed to solving the problem, but to doing so in a very, very smart, serious and responsible way. Thank you again, everyone. Of course, I'll be with you all day tomorrow. For people who don't know, Mr. Seselj throws all the time and asks what I've said to the ruler's Gregory. (Vojislav Seselj: That's what the whole nation wants to know. Thank you again. I want to thank these people from Kosovo and Metohija who, unlike those foreigners who came to hear for 15 minutes, they've been here the whole time, they haven't even come out of this room, and that shows respect for you, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-27-0.u55183	Thank you, Mr. President, for your address. As we have less than 10 minutes, we can't share speeches, we're finishing work for today. Tomorrow we will continue at 10:00 p.m. with questions about the Rules of Procedure, so at 10:30 we will continue the debate.
