ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56311	Dear People's MPs, we are continuing the session of the 12th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sittings are attended by 84 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 86 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I also inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the next MPs – Milena Ćorilić and Milisav Petronijevic. We are continuing the initial search on the 3rd item of the agenda – THE PROPOSAL OF THE COMMUNAL MILICATION LAW, according to the order of the application for the word. The word is Natasha St. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56312	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers with associates, respected fellow MPs, the municipal police founded the city of Belgrade in 2010 and since then discussed its responsibilities. By decision of the City Assembly in December 2016, the municipal police were organised as a special organisational unit. We are facing today a new law that changes the name of municipal police, because it is necessary to make a clear distinction from members of the Ministry of the Interior, who have a second task and other powers that are increasing in this law compared to the previous one. The excessive purpose of the municipal militia is to ensure the enforcement of the city's competence in the field of municipal action, environmental protection, people and goods. Also, the municipal militia was created to maintain order in the use of land, space, local roads, streets and other public buildings on the territory of all Serbia, divided into organisational continents. In its jurisdiction is also the control of public suburban and urban traffic, since it is very important, because the introduction of Bus Plus has caused great damage to the city whose budget suffers because we are forced to touch public transport. To remind the citizens, the famous contract with the transition to "Bus Plus" was signed by Dragan Gilas, then portrayed as an excellent project. Now it takes millions to break up. So far, the legislation has defined only one municipal militiaman to reach 5,000 citizens, which is, of course, insufficient. They only came to the suburban municipalities on application and this proved to be insufficiently effective. Now we expect a lot of this change, because every suburban municipality will have a special station and a militia that will continuously control that area. What's very important is that employees should only be the ones who meet all the psychophysical conditions, pass all the security checks, have been educated and have passed the test for the municipal militia. To explain to the citizens, since many have asked me about the competences of the municipal militia, I will only list a portion of their domain. They prevent interference in the pursuit of municipal activity and the protection of municipal objects against dirt, damage and destruction. Afterwards, they protect the area of public purpose from unlawful occupation and damage, the suppression of illegal construction and the operation of other activities on the surfaces of public purposes. Then there is the prevention of actions that disrupt the city’s general arrangement, i.e. the maintenance of facilities and facilities in clean and orderly condition, the control of the removal of snow and ice, the prevention of begging, because we have centres for social work and shelters that provide assistance to social and materially endangered, then the use of flammable and explosive funds in public places, within the limits of power, also prevent the illegal construction of buildings and control of external security and marking of construction sites. Control of the maintenance of municipal zoohygia and ways of holding and performing pets. As a big animal lover, I know this is a very current problem. I hope you can solve the question of stray dogs. Especially is the condemnation of those dog owners who guard them when they're little, and then drive them out into the street to get along. They are not guilty of irresponsible ownership behavior and inadequate manner of keeping without food and water. This has to be sanctioned. Then, the control of the respect for the working hours of the catering and other facilities whose work can endanger the peace and calm of the citizens. Since I have a regular reception of citizens as a national MP, I have met with this problem that citizens are complaining, so I am very looking forward to the fact that the municipal militia will be in greater numbers and that we will meet the requirements of the citizens. Performing surveillance in public city and suburban local traffic, in accordance with the law, then improper parking, will increase the number of cameras here to also protect citizens from arrogant drivers, the protection of municipal and untegorised roads and streets from improper occupation, then damage to signs and others. How many times have we heard that someone illegally and illegally took over a public area or part of a road or ripped out a traffic sign? Protection of municipal and untegorised roads, then support the implementation of regulations that ensure the smooth life in the city, and preserve both urban and cultural and public goods and carry out other tasks. The communal militia shall assist the competent authorities of the city, or the city municipality, undertakings and other institutions and organisations as assistance whenever necessary. Emergency measures are being taken to protect the environment, protect people and property from natural and other disasters. As you can see, it's a very large diapazon of the operation of the municipal police, i.e. The militia. We need to get in the way of hooligans who break traffic lights, benches, roll over containers, and that's maybe a little bit individually, but in the crowd it's a big deal, and that's why the need to amend this law is huge. What's for sure is that future municipal police officers have their hands full. The irresponsible and boastful must be brought to order, to the joy of responsible and disciplined citizens, who always respect the environment and their fellow citizens. From the above, I can't wait for the municipal militia to start working, especially in suburban municipalities, where I come from, in Mladenov. I'm sure we'll cooperate well in the future. Thank you all for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56313	Thank you, colleagues. The word has been made by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. He's not there. The word is made by MP Boban Birmancevic. Here you go, colleague Birmanchevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56314	The respected chairman and respected ministers, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, another law that continues the continuity in the adoption of laws that solve certain problems, and problems in the utility sector, i.e. municipal areas and the protection of the environment and all that will be done by the future, now under this law, the municipal militia. It is certainly a law that confirms that we are on a good path and that we are passing all those laws that will improve the position of citizens and just all those who are constantly talking about the laws and whether it is in line with EU law, with this or that law, and this law and all previous laws are in line with the interests of the citizens of Serbia, and that is what is most important. The communal problems are present and are daily to a lesser or larger extent, but that depends, above all, on what we all like to say, the wider social community, but certainly also on the state's reaction. This is one of the ways in which the state will react and create conditions for us to form in all municipal and urban administrations, to establish a municipal militia that will clearly have its tasks defined and that will, of course, behave in accordance with the law and in accordance with what it gets from its superiors, which in this case is the municipal and city administration. The task of the municipal police is clearly defined by this law, but what would be necessary would have to be the task of the ministry to direct both city administrations and municipal administrations with its sublegal acts, and that these municipal police officers, or the new municipal militia, are working in the interests of the citizens and that part of the citizens will be those who advise, assist and above all, direct people in the direction they should behave, how to solve communal problems, and, of course, if someone really wants to abuse and violate the law of intended norms, of course there are criminal and criminal charges. The law is good and it is commendable on a good path, but this law has not defined enough, and I hope that we may define it by sublaw, which is how we treat the mayor or the president of a municipality that does not behave in accordance with the law and which abuses its position, or abuses exactly the municipal police. Unfortunately, there are such mayors and presidents of the municipality, and one such is the mayor of the town of Sapca, Nebojsa Zelenovic, who treats his municipal police, or the municipal police of the town of Sapca, and in a new name, it will be the municipal militia, treated as his own police. He's simply acting so that he didn't protect the citizens with the municipal police in Capco but privatized them. If I tell you that in protests that are not all mass that try and fail every Friday, 20 people walk, and the municipal police, I don't know why and I don't know by what law regulates traffic and stop traffic in the town of Šapac, it's simply an example of how public police should not do it, since there's a law on predicting procedures, and when I tell you, I mean the SNS that, every 38 days every working day organises a two-hour walk, we submit an orderly MUP request, traffic regulates the MUP, which is the task and these 20 people who walk on Friday nights, if they manage to catch them, they are provided by three, four municipal cars, or public police cars, which are simply illegal and must be established sanctions that will prevent or restrict their position. Is it possible that this particular mayor, does the Ministry know that the mayor has 29 assistants and advisers, and that one of those 29 assistants and advisors could have told him that it was not in accordance with the law. What is very important is that the municipal police react and act exclusively on the orders of Mayor Zelenovic, does not even go on charges unless they are in line with their political support, and we are talking about the support that Zelenović has almost failed in my Sapac, measured in zero percentages, and in May's elections he just got zero, zero as a door, 15 candidates supported by SNS passed with six times more votes than the votes Nebojsa Zelenovic has. Whether the municipal police are with this law, and I'm not sure they can, and we would have to find a method to protect the citizens from the mayors like Nebojsa Zelenović, and perhaps there are such in other municipal administrations, if in 45 rural meat communities in 2019, there are not a single metre of water, not one metre of sewerage network in the 42 rural community. Can you imagine the disastrous move of a single government that lasts 19 full years? After 19 full years in 42 villages of the town of Šapca, there are neither a meter of waterway nor a meter of sewerage network. Could the municipal militia, under this new law, write a criminal charges against a mayor who represents a policy that allows himself to after 19 years of government in a town like Shabac, so-called. Little Paris, 42 villages don't have a water and sewer network. It's exactly what the municipal police must prevent and must somehow sanction the mayor who has allowed himself to have a city in which 42 villages have neither a water or a sewer network. To make the problem even bigger here, I have a 2016 capital investment plan, a pre-election plan of 2.7 billion dinars. This is a lie plan because none of these projects were done, but in 2016 neither water or sewerage network was planned. A new capital investment plan was adopted at the assembly Wednesday in Sapac from 2019 to 2021, and again from these 42 villages, there are not a single metre of water and sewerage networks in the capital investments of Mayor Zelenovic. Whether the municipal police, whether the ministry can handle it, I think someone would have to react, criminally against mayors who together with their 29 assistants, and together with their larger one, bring a plan of capital investment from 2019 to 2021, where there are neither a meter of water or a meter of sewerage network, 42 villages are concerned. This law is a really good law, it will help those who think well of their citizens to be the service of citizens through the municipal militia, not the institution, an instrument that will be misused by the president of the municipality or the mayor. Only if the municipal police are just doing a job in the interest of citizens and being a citizen service is this law has my support, it has a future, it has the support of anyone who thinks about the state of Serbia. Find ways as a ministry to prevent mayors and presidents of municipalities that do not work in the interest of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56315	Thank you, colleague Birmanchevic. The word has a People's Messenger, Alexandra Belacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56316	Before the MPs were officially presented with a proposal for a law on the municipal militia in the media, we could read what changes this law will contain in relation to the previous and what effects are expected. From the ruling regime's representatives, we heard among other things the announcement that the new law will allow the municipal police to be more effective in introducing municipal order and protecting citizens from any kind of haughtiness, whether it is about lawless construction, low-level parking, too loud music, and throwing trash at places that are not set aside for this purpose, destroying facades or disobeying other rules of municipal order. This idea in theory sounds good, but there are more problems when it comes to implementing it in practice. In the past few years, members of the municipal police have recorded a large number of blackouts and over-authorizations. Of course, in each service it happens occasionally that some boast individuals work on their own, but in the municipal police, the number of such individuals was too high whatever created great resistance to this service. The citizens are rightly outraged and believe that members of the municipal police are the main source and cause of arrogant behavior. I think it would be far better and far smarter if it were first worked to improve the image of the municipal police, by making these people prone to incidents and replacing them with better ones, who understand the essence of the job, and then going to change the name of service and giving wider powers. The communal police, unfortunately, have not justified the trust of citizens who, with full right, react negatively to the announced changes. Almost all towns and municipalities in Serbia face serious municipal problems. It's enough to look around you to become aware of the fact that the improvement in achieving the communal order is absolutely undetectable. It is no problem to paint facades in the city centre and keep the centre clean, but if you go a little further into the city's municipalities, which do not make up the city's central core, you will see that the government of municipal chaos and garbage on all sides and improperly parked cars and illegal construction that develops from day to day, in Belgrade, the situation is the best, while in the inner municipalities of Serbia, therefore, the problems that do not make up the capital are much bigger. The communal police have failed to contribute to resolving this problem in a way that would be seen and recognised by citizens as one positive asset. The reason for the failure of the work of the municipal police in the previous period lies in the fact that this service has been misorganised since the beginning so that its members have the sole task of sanctioning persons who are committing municipal violations, without giving a personal contribution to the resolution of communal problems. Have you ever tried to calculate how many people it takes to punish to notice a significant change? Of course, it is necessary to increase the number of members of the municipal police, if their only number is punishment and sanctions. Of course, no increase in the number of employees in the municipal police will be enough to achieve any significant effect. A much better result would be achieved if the municipal militia or police were organised by example of services in the region, whose members bear the name municipal directors and personally participate in maintaining the municipal order, removing garbage, cleaning of facades, etc. The very name of this service communal militia and police imply that its employees are persons who have both a communal role and the role of a police officer or a militiaman. For some reason, we are running away from this communal role, and the role of employees in the municipal police is reduced to sanctioning citizens, without any personal contribution that significantly slows the results. If the aim of the municipal militia is to fight haughtiness, we need to define what arrogant behavior is. If someone illegally builds objects or throws garbage out for the intended place, it certainly is arrogant, such as boastful and parking on the green surface, writing graphite or too loud playing music. Is it arrogant when some pensioner on the street sells vegetables from his garden? Is it boastful when someone in the seventh or eighth decade of life is forced to sell flowers, parsley or other foods on the street? It is not boastful, because there is no profit-making objective in this operation, but rather a mere struggle for survival. You authorities are full of criticism at the expense of the former regime, and you're right about everything you say. The previous regime has ruined Serbia, to make its members rich personally, and for the privatisation of many... (Alexander Markovic: Hard words! Mr. Milicevic, I'm sorry if you can interrupt the gentlemen who are getting me so I can finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56317	Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56318	Thank you. Therefore, because of privatisation, many citizens have found themselves at the Bureau and because of the fact that they have been on the Bureau for years, they have been reduced the average for retirement, and because of this, they cannot survive the month, pay bills and buy drugs and are forced to sell on the street, to sort of feed and survive. The communal police shouldn't punish people like this, because they certainly wouldn't do it if they had another choice. You'll remember that a few years ago there was an incident when a watermelon salesman died after a debate with a communal officer. Something like this shouldn't happen anymore. The parties currently in power advocated against the municipal police, while they were in opposition, which was obviously a move aimed at bringing them to power. After coming to power, they've adopted this liquid of the DS's thieving regime. For DS, the municipal police were nothing more than a means of repression against citizens, not entering what the current regime is up to. We from the SRS have invested a series of amendments aimed at improving the functioning of the municipal militia in order to regulate this service in a way that will contribute to the greatest quality of life in our municipalities and cities. Unfortunately, this bill has many shortcomings. For example, the text states that municipal militia operations can also be carried out by municipal militiamen, without an official label uniform, under the written orders of the chief of the municipal militia. The law does not specify which jobs and how they will do it, but the very fact that municipal police officers will be able to act without uniforms, opens up space for numerous abuses, from citizens in certain situations, perhaps not believing that the person they are talking to is a municipal militiaman, that false representation can occur. Also, the dispute is that you give the municipal militia the authority to stop the vehicle and apply the means of coercion. These powers should only be left to members of the police force, which are sufficient, while giving these wider powers to the municipal militia opens up the possibility of numerous abuses and also strengthens resistance among citizens. This is where the controversy about the very name of this service was launched. Now the new law changes the name of the service, so instead of the municipal police, it says - the municipal militia. The question arises, is the militia's expression adequate? It is essentially what this service will be called, but if we are going to go into detail, then the term militia is certainly inadequate, since it leads to the Latin word milles, which means - soldier, since ancient Rome, the name militia has been used for an unprofessional army, composed of armed citizens to defend cities, while in modern times this term is used for paramilitary formations and certainly has nothing to do with maintaining community order. No wonder the citizens fear that local self-government will have at their disposal a people's army in which they will be employed, exclusively party listeners, so-called. Butinators, who will use the means of coercion, not only when it comes to municipal order, but also during the election campaign and on the day of the election, to provide as many votes as possible for their employers. If the party's formation of force is not your goal, you should have chosen the name of municipal directors and restricted them, even if you wanted to start empowering this service, which the citizens have an extremely negative opinion on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56319	Comrade Markovic, do you want a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56320	I thank the chairman. Without intending to cause controversy, I do say it, and I want to clarify a few important things from what we've heard. We talked about it yesterday, and again, the question of the wider powers of the municipal militiamen is being raised, and I really have no intention of repeating what we said yesterday on several occasions, but let's end the municipal police, or the municipal militia. Either we shut it down or we give these people something to do. I am more, and I think it's the attitude of anyone who wants well to their community and their community, their place, their city, that these people are doing their job for whom they've been paid and doing it in the best possible way, doing it in accordance with the law, this law that's on the agenda today. So, wider powers, because we want communal order. We want to establish a communal order, that is, to deal effectively with all the problems that we have heard about before in the course of the discussion. We've heard there's a large number of municipal problems, especially in suburban municipalities. Yes, of course there is. We were witnesses, a few days ago of an unpleasant event that took place on the left bank of the Danube, and I also said in yesterday's presentation that if we had more municipal police officers in the city of Belgrade, we might be able to prevent such phenomena, for the simple reason that the city of Belgrade, a city that needs more municipal militiamen, and this law creates assumptions that it will be in the future. The city of Belgrade cannot have 300 municipal police officers, it will now be a militia, to deal with all the municipal problems the city of Belgrade has, especially in those suburban areas. For all these reasons, I want to give strong support to these proposed solutions that this law provides. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56321	Thank you, colleague Markovic. Just a moment, please. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radet. Here you are, colleague Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56322	I don't think so, it's article 27, I'm actually sure there was no room for replica, because the gentleman who spoke now is not a representative of the promoter. This could possibly have been said by the minister if he thought it was true. But we've been listening to this yesterday all day and today all day. Belgrade has only 300 municipal police officers, and for years we need 1,000 municipal police officers. This is actually just telling us that nothing works here, that the government is so bad, because if one service needs 1,000 people, and only 300 works, there's a serious problem in the functioning of that government and I don't know what it boasts about. What he thinks is his thing, but he can't, and he doesn't have the right, if no one mentions his party or him or his president, he can't intervene just because one parliamentary group has a different opinion. I repeat, it could possibly be the minister if he thinks he should make a remark. Someone can't because they're yelling "Uo, o" from the bench to get us to change our mind. No, the municipal militia shouldn't exist. It's so conceived, especially not. It could exist as part of a police force, a service like Gendarmere, a service that would be involved in part of this work that you've predicted here. Here, I really urge that those who shout "Ua", "o" to intervene with their officials to employ more of these people, to fail Belgrade, we lack 700 municipal militiamen, there is no one to beat the people, now the watermelons go, and last year only one man died because he was beaten by a municipal police officer. We need to push in as soon as possible to fill those places.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56323	I'd like to thank my colleague, Radet. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. Thank you. Right on the line, MP Alexander Belacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56324	Thank you. (President: Comrade Markovic, just a little quieter, please. I'd like to look back on what the previous speaker said that says - whether we're going to end the municipal militia now, or if we're going to give them something to do. As far as I'm concerned, and as far as we're concerned, as far as we're concerned, the municipal militia has been functioning for several years. If we're just giving them something to do now, it would be good to hear what they've been doing all these years ago and why these 300 municipal police officers in Belgrade, who are now going to become police officers, have been getting paid all these years. Next, of course we have an insufficient number, when the entire service is misorganized. Look, for example, when it comes to writing graphite. If, for example, I go out to the street to write graphite, the communal cop has to come out and give me a ticket, so I can stop doing it. So he has to walk around all day to catch me in the act and write me a ticket. Well, that has to happen once, twice, three times, five times until I learn not to do it anymore. How many such individuals in Belgrade? And how many municipal cops you have to take to the streets to see the effect. The service should be organised differently. So, you need to buy the graphite-cleaning machines and you need these people to hire instead of just chasing citizens who commit violations and incidents themselves with their work and their actions contribute to the municipal order, so that their number will be quite enough. There were 300, 500 or 1,000. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56325	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Ivana Nikolic. Here you go, Col. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56326	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, today we are talking about the proposal for a law on the municipal militia, which is a significant and huge step towards comprehensive reforms implemented in the Republic of Serbia, and the biggest contribution should be to really facilitating the maintenance of the municipal order and local self-government. This law defines that the municipal militia will be able to be effective in the introduction of municipal work, and we believe that the vast majority of citizens who support the work of the current government are looking forward to implementing the envisaged measures, because they know that such instruments, besides others already in place, will be protected from inappropriate boastful behaviour, whether it is parking, noise, overwork time of catering facilities, parking on green surfaces and so on. I would particularly point out that the creation of such a bill has really been approached in detail, that a public debate has been held and that all interested parties have had the opportunity to declare themselves. Absolutely, moving forward with all reforms and newspapers introduced into the state administration system, it is important to point out that without detailed analyses, controls and procedures, no individuals will be able to carry out the measures set out in such a bill. A communal militiaman will not be able to be someone found guilty during security checks that some court proceedings are being conducted, or simply, that a legal person has been convicted of some violations, among other things, and from a domain of public order and peace violations. Also, a municipal militiaman must meet the condition that in terms of psychophysical ability, he has an obligation to pass certain tests and so on in terms of education. Therefore, a detailed and systematic approach when selecting persons who can perform these tasks in general. We are sure that through such training and preparation for passing exams, they will find mechanisms for how these cases will work, which someone says they will catch them on the street or not. We've had comments on the provisions relating to the work of militiamen in civilians, but it's, in a way, devastating, why I should recognize someone on the street tomorrow in uniform or not knowing whether I'm acting in accordance with the law and certain regulations. If there are bad habits in society, or there is not enough awareness of how something should be done, the responsible authority for such opportunities of the sea must simply find such instruments to remove them, or at least to reduce them, which is in the interest of all of us. Such a legal solution will relieve police of jobs that have to do with municipal violations and contribute to successful co-ordination, police work and the municipal militia. Now local self-government is being given an instrument to protect citizens and to introduce communal order. This is one way to step up with modern states, with modern cities, with modern local self-government, simply one way and cultured citizenship. Some will be aware of the existence and operation of this kind of governmental authority, or local administration. If there's enough awareness of all the rights these faces will have, maybe it'll have a preemptive effect on someone. The policy of Alexander Vukic, the current government and responsible leadership, implemented by the SNS programme, is indeed decent and modern Serbia. We want tomorrow when someone comes to Serbia to invest or simply, to come as a tourist to take besides elementary things, such as starting out good infrastructure and stability in one country as well as positive impressions and things like this. So, in Serbia, it's done a lot, first it's stopped, stagnation in some areas, then it's hard and then it's implemented, and there's serious reforms and the strategy of our society's development, and that's why it's the responsibility for all of us to build and preserve modern and strong Serbia. Next time, I will support the bill in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56327	Thank you, colleague Nikolic. The word has a folk emissary, lovely Mihajslovska. She's not present. The word has a National MP, Zarko Bogatinović. Here you go, colleague Bogatinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56328	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected ministers with associates, the purpose of the adoption of the law on the municipal militia is to educate the municipal militia in the territory of the city for certain municipal and other tasks as soon as the exercise of the city's competences in the areas, as we have heard, that is, issues of municipal activity, environmental protection, provides protection and maintains order in the use of land, space, local roads, streets and other public buildings. After the law was passed on the municipal militia, the town of Leskovac was one of the first cities to recognise the potential of education of the new service and to train a part of the already employed staff at the base police training centre in Sremska Kamenica. At that time, six members of the first generation were trained professionally to perform municipal police duties and after passing the exams acquired conditions for the performance of jobs and the application of an authorised municipal police officer. The communal militia, which was then educated in the City Department for the inspection work of the town of Leskovci, had to cope with recognising it as a service that serves primarily to improve municipal work in the city and to contribute to the citizens, and afterwards to other competent authorities of the city. Only after making a decision on the city administration of Leskovec, when the municipal police department was educated as a special department, was the communal police given the importance. The town of Leskovac, among other things, recognised one purpose in the dealings of municipal police and gave the initiative and support to organise the Department of Municipal Police in co-operation with the Department of Environmental Protection of the JPY "Communalac" Leskovac and the company Por Weber and Verner to clean up wild dumps in removing waste from public areas, as well as to regulate the area of public purpose. After the initiative was launched, the first action was organised to remove the wild dump in September 2013 next to the elementary school in the village of Međa, which is the northern part of the territory of the town of Leskovac. Since the launch of action in the town of Leskovac and surrounding local communities on the cleaning of wild dumps and the removal of waste from public areas, as well as the arrangement of areas of public purpose, a total of 330 days and removed for that time about 4,000 tonnes of solid municipal waste. The operation of the municipal militia in the town of Leskovac is primarily based on prevention, i.e. prevention of violations, and when it does not show results, it goes to other measures from the jurisdiction of the municipal militia. From education as a special department of municipal militia within the City Administration of Leskovci, changes are seen in markedly reduced sales on the surface of public purposes without the approval of the competent authority, etc. outside sales, as well as the number of vehicles parked on public, green and other areas not intended for parking. It is also noticeable that catering facilities and entertainment facilities due to frequent control of the municipal police respect the decision on the schedule of working hours, as well as members concerned with the harassment of citizens. Every day from 15 to 20 times, the Department of Communal Police in Leskovac is addressed by day-to-day citizens, the city's competent authorities, as well as businesses, organisations and institutions that decide on individual citizens' rights. Also, I cite that the current Department of Communal Police in Leskovac has eight municipal militias working daily on the entire territory of the town of Leskovec, on the surface of 1,025 km2 and 144 settlements, which speaks clearly about the necessity of expanding the capacity of the department. Finally, what I would like to commend in this bill is a newspaper that concerns internal control of the work of municipal militiamen and employees of the municipal militia. I believe that the introduction of this institute is of paramount importance, as it will certainly improve the work of the municipal militia, increase the level of professionality and level of responsibility of all employees in the municipal militia, which I hope as a final effect will have greater satisfaction for citizens through the work of the municipal militia. Also, Article 18 of the proposed law introduces new powers of municipal militiamen, especially the possibility of stopping and reviewing vehicles, which in many ways will facilitate the work of municipal police officers, as well as other powers relating to audio and video recording and gathering information will contribute to the same goal, that municipal militants in a much easier and more efficient way fulfil their obligations. Finally, another newspaper that indicates that serious access to the arrangement of this activity is contained in Article 36. The bill, which envisions a security check on candidates to establish a working relationship in the municipal militia. In this way, clear criteria are set that candidates, besides all others, have to meet to be worthy of work in one such body and that these candidates are really persons who will be worthy of this service that is important to all citizens. In voting day, I will support the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56329	Thank you, colleague Bogatinovic. The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56330	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, in my opinion, this law is not good. First of all, when you joined this law, you had to do a study through the Institute of Comparative Law regarding continental law and the Russian Federation, how the local police were regulated and whether there was any there, which would have been earlier, the national militia, and now the municipal militia. I will tell you that this law is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 42, the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Law on the Police, the Law on Transport Safety, the Law on Public Order and Peace and is contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a law on the municipal police is no doubt determined next, so I'm telling you. Officials' powers are also given to municipal police, which is contrary to the Constitution and these laws that I have mentioned. Local officials become officials of the municipal militia, which can lead to serious abuses because of the known mentality of our people. It is unclear who the municipal militiamen are responsible for, because their work is an hour under the Law of Local Self-Government, an hour under the Law of Internal Affairs. Secondly, the powers of municipal militiamen are exactly the same as the powers of police officers, even wider than the powers of police, because police powers are limited and exclusively regulated by the Criminal Procedure Act. However, wider powers have to do with the application of certain powers to a municipal militiaman. In addition to considering, I point to the following. Article 1 The bill of law is too general for you. It gives us different interpretations here. Article 2(1) is an unclear manner and jurisdiction in education. Whether "educated" is active and whether this appropriate formulation is militia. What country does the police have at the bar? Fourth, completely identical powers of members of the internal affairs authority, that is, the police. Can there be a conflict of jurisdiction? Well, that's fine. Who solves this conflict of jurisdiction. The law doesn't offer a solution. Fourth, temporary confiscation of the case, gentlemen, in accordance with Article 24. Proposal for a Law, a very vague construction of Article 24, as it is a sensitive substance which is governed by Article 2(2) in accordance with the Law on Trade. Article 25. The bill – audio and video. Imagine, now someone's gonna come into the bedroom and they're gonna be able to record what they used to do during the previous regimes. Completely incomprehensible police intelligence. The powers of the communal millicator are greater and wider. Namely, this measure is regulated by Articles 171, 172 and 173 for the police. The Code of Criminal Procedure, as this measure can only be implemented on the basis of a proposal from the Public Prosecutor and his order as referred to in Article 69. The law on police, which prescribes conditions for this kind of measure. Even worse, those measures are prescribed by the minister of local self-government. Article 26. The bill, the use of the means of coercion, is indeed the ultimate means to be used by the police. Ladies and gentlemen, when you look at Article 18, which is the authority, you have the authority to take the following: warning... What's the warning? Repressive measure. Oral orders – repressive measures, identity checks – repressive measures, stopping and reviewing faces and vehicles, stopping, depriving the street, legitimizing, binding, audio and video recording, using means of coercion. Please, what if a cop uses a bat? Well, you're about to mention whether she's painless or not and whether she's a six-foot machete or not during the feudal period and not to say in other systems. The use of coercion means, therefore, is against the law. Therefore, gathering notices, gentlemen, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in Article 42 envisaged, above all, who can collect notices and conduct operational processing on any MP or any citizen of the Republic of Serbia or any person, etc. So operational processing can't be done like this. Besides, other powers in line with what other powers are they? It's not clear. What are the powers here? So, ladies and gentlemen, Article 8. The bill, in particular, is contrary to the Constitution. Take the Constitution, member of this 42nd law. Instead of orders, look at what's going on at this point, because it's the same measure, first of all, repressive. Ladies and gentlemen, how is it possible for you not to provide for this kind of repression to be used by members of, therefore, the municipal militia, that you do not allow the right under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia that every citizen who is being legitimateized, who is being investigated, who is being detained, who is being detained, has the right to defend himself? Where, gentlemen, in this bill is the right of a citizen to have a representative and possibly have a defender? The Faith of Radeth, they will do it all. Therefore, gentlemen, this law is not good for you. Don't really fool yourself that he'll live to see it. This law, gentlemen, I'm sorry, Mr. Rose, you are, to say, a correct man and I have nothing against you, but I have against those who prepared this. This bill had to go through the Institute of Comparative Law. Let me tell you, here I was when I was a minister, I first asked the Institute of Comparative Law to do my studies, and then I propose the Code of Criminal Procedure, Criminal Law and other laws. In this way, from parallel rights, continental and Anglo-Saxon, we were able to come up with the right solutions. At that time, one of the most modern, democratic law on criminal proceedings is now in place. If I hadn't had the Institute of Comparative Rights, believe me, I couldn't pass such a law on criminal proceedings that is now in place. Ladies and gentlemen, if you'll excuse me, here, now you see, one more thing to remind you, it turns out that the Chief of Police may have his own private police force, i.e. The militia. If it's militiamen without uniform, then it's like Alexa Žunić, a meeting spy from Nusic's comedy "Suspecting Face". Ladies and gentlemen, this law will be contrary, I repeat, to the system laws. There's nothing new here that's delimited. You're disrupting, this proposal violates the legal order. We can't destroy the legal order now to form a communal police force. What do we do now that the communal officer comes and stops the driver? It says: review. What review? What kind of checkup? Well, he's not crazy to fit. ) However, he will ask him to search him. Please, facial search, facial arrest, so that's street depravity. Putting handcuffs on your hands, that's, first of all, a felony. Under criminal law, it's a pure crime. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, this law should be withdrawn from the procedure. It won't be applied. You will also have cases like this that a municipal policeman will stop the driver and say, "Driving the left side, and a traffic policeman will come and say, "Now drive the right side." If there's a jurisdictional conflict, who's going to solve the issue? Secondly, the application procedure itself, Mr. Rose, is not governed by the law. You have no solutions, you have no right to appeal, you have no right to defend yourself, and this guarantees the Constitution and guarantees the European Convention on Fundamental Human Rights to Serbian citizens. Therefore, this law, Mr. Ruzic, would be worth withdrawing from the procedure, because it cannot be applied, and the Constitutional Court will not accept it and will come to you when assessing, establishing constitutionality and legality. I can tell you from practice, I've worked for 20 years on security matters and as the highest head of security in the service where I've questioned the abuses of militiamen and police officers, I can tell you the most responsible thing, that in this I have experience in the security service at concrete jobs in the exercise of authority and abuse, which is why some have responded and committed criminally and were left without a job when they abused, therefore, their official position. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Rose, don't think I have a bad intention. The law should exist, but better law. My proposal - pull this out of the process.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56331	Thank you, colleague Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56332	Second, order a study. At the study through the Institute of Comparative Law, not only Albania and Croatia to take, or Bosnia, the parallel right, we should see how it is in France, England, Spain, as it is in Italy, Austria and other countries.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56333	Thanks again. The word has a representative of promoter Branko Ruzic, minister of state administration and local self-government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56334	Thank you, Chairman. It's just, after some allegations of previous speakers, I'd like to point out some facts. I'm sure there's good intentions and good will, that's not at all questionable. What's shown here is that it's going to devast, bring down constitutional-legal order, I just want to remind you that the content of this law is complementary in that part of the content, the law that's been applied for ten years now, and in 10 years, it would probably collapse that constitutional-legal order, that's exactly what you said. (Faith Radeta: Isn't it, Branko? ) As regards the member of the Constitution, Article 42, he clearly defines, as you have said, the collection of personality data and is also said to be governed by law, and that is what you have in this bill in Article 27. When we talk about defenders, there's no room for defenders here, this isn't about criminal acts. When we talk about complaints and solutions, it certainly goes through a misdemeanor procedure after what the municipal police are doing, as far as I'm aware of the procedure. The law certainly relies on system laws and we also heard that there are supposed to be wider powers and we talked about jurisdiction and powers, one is jurisdiction, the other are powers. And the competences of the M.O.P. and the responsibilities of the Communist militia are not the same. That's what it's also, I guess, clear to everyone, but I have to repeat it for the public. It was said earlier that there was no prevention, that the Communist militia or the former Communist police were exclusively repressive. Just to remind you of what I said yesterday, that only in Belgrade last year was 14,000 warnings given. So, 14,000 warnings. At the second stop, the repression was applied, if we call it repression, only in 16 cases. So, on the one hand, 14,000 warnings, on the other hand 16 cases of use of forced funds in 2018. Eight times it was physical strength, seven times it was handcuffs, and once it was this one, as you called it, a painless bat. So, I think it's quite clear that what's said doesn't stand. Let me see some more. You've also given examples of life, unfortunately, there have been tragic situations, and when you want to use one to devalue even the idea of forming a community police service, or a municipal militia, then the tragic case with a watermelon salesman is mentioned. But I also want to remind you of an even more tragic event that took place in front of the Center for Social Labour in Rakovica, when there was a fatal outcome, but this perpetrator was mastered precisely by two municipal police officers and thus prevented a major tragedy. So, if this law is passed, I think it is also evident in the field of these examples that, of course, everyone from their own corner and for the sake of their own sometimes political needs. Anyway, I had a need to respond to these really constructive discussions, but in some ways, to give an argument that might be in one piece contradicting what you were saying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56335	I thank you, Minister Rose. Comrade Jojic, do you want a replica? Right on line, MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56336	Mr. Minister, I can't agree with you. In this matter I have ruled and applied it for dozens and dozens of years. I know the powers of the police, the regular, therefore, members of the internal affairs body, and I also recognized the powers you give to the municipal militia. Article 42. The constitution clearly states that this can be spoken of as criminal proceedings. Operational processing is data collection. And, on the other hand, why wasn't it supposed to pass the test for members of the municipal militia? Why aren't they members of the community militia at school, as is the case for members of the police, because certain powers that are truly guaranteed by the constitution will apply here? What professional training will be given by the president of the municipality or the mayor who will now give orders and he will lead the procedure whether the use of physical power, rubber sticks, means of binding, detention? It's your detention, people, deprivement of freedom. Liaison, it's a crime, when it's done and there's no authority. Who's going to solve the conflict of jurisdiction? You've stepped deep into the provisions of the Police Act. Secondly, the Code of Criminal Procedure explicitly determines the powers of police officers, and these powers of police officers are regulated by the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Law on Police, and that the main function is subject to public prosecutorship. Without it, I don't think this law can be applied, because in practice this... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56337	Thank you, colleague Jojic. I'm gonna have to interrupt you now. You had two minutes and you had, of course, a basis for replication. Thank you. The word has a representative of promoter Branko Ruzic, minister of state administration and local self-government. Here you go, Mr. Rose.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56338	Thank you, Chairman. Just for a little while, then, for the public's sake again. Of course they're training. This training takes 2.5 months in training centres that are theoretical and practical. As far as criminal proceedings are concerned, it's not working here, so the municipal militia, and if they run into the perpetrator of the crime, they pass it on to the D.A. and the D.A. because they don't do it. I think this training is much more important. It's just that the claim that training doesn't stand. Of course they go through training and that's what the law says.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56339	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Petar Jojic, a replica. I'm just asking you to respect the weather.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56340	Mr. Minister, what expert training will the mayor have to address the question whether the means of coercion have been justified or not, has there been an overuse of the use of the means of application? What's the Opov guy gonna say about high school? Now he's going to run your procedure and assess the use of funds. Secondly, it's a short deadline for you to provide for the law. At least six months should take schooling to pass the exam. If they don't pass the exam, they can't be put on that duty. I repeat, let's not argue here right now. Take the provisions of the Law on Criminal Procedure, the Traffic Safety Act. In the Transport Safety Act, Article 2(2) provides for exclusive jurisdiction with regard to the regulation of traffic safety belongs to the jurisdiction of the MUP, i.e. Traffic police and police traffic management. Why don't we understand each other here now? Have your associates read the Traffic Safety Act, the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Deprivement of Freedom, the Criminal Code, where it is a criminal offence. Police law, compare, but you're in the jurisdiction of other authorities. Second, I need to distract you. There's also a few of our fellow lawyers and lawyers who know that well. No process store can be taken without a lawyer. They can't even be legitimate. He has every right to ask for a lawyer. If he's bringing him in, he has the right to take a lawyer. Without a lawyer, he won't talk. So what do we do?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56341	Thank you. The National MP Tatjana Macura is not present. The word is from the MP Ljiljana Malusic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56342	Thank you. Dear Ministers of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today I will talk about the proposal for a law on the municipal militia. I'm listening to the current debate, so I don't get it, the bill of law has been held for a month. It is a pity that no proposals, suggestions were dropped at the time, because indeed everyone had the right to plead out by the state authorities, units of local self-government, local self-government, then city and municipality conferences, NGOs. Anyone who wanted could have pleaded to this law. And that's good. Instead of running these polemics, we should have pleaded then. And why is there a need to conduct a discussion like this? The purpose of the municipal police, now the militia, will be to solve an incredible mess that occurred 40 years ago. I'm sorry no one was talking about Vinci, the biggest dump, one of the world's 10. Well, it wasn't the SNS, it was the people who made four authorities, five authorities before that. Dossier power didn't lift a finger. In 2011, it was a pre-election campaign, detached 179m euros to take care of Vince. One of the four largest dumps in Europe. So, what did they do? Nothing, no money. We're the first time, now we're gonna shut that dump down, recycle. We found strategic partners, that's Japan and France. We determined the amount of money, which is twice as big, unfortunately, because they didn't do anything that ruled for 12 years. And, definitely, we've done a project, and we're going to do recycling facilities one of the four largest dumps in Europe, the 10 largest dumps in the world. That's what we need to talk about. And what was wrong with the law, what was, was a public debate for a month. Everyone was supposed to be involved in that debate. Besides, there was a website in the ministry. Anyone who wanted could have said their opinion and had a more constructive discussion today. I'm not saying it's not good, of course it's good, that's why there's a tide, but let's speed up the work. I listened to what the esteemed speaker said. There's one thing, and that's that the municipal militia has internal control. That's the thing. They won't even know who's controlling them. There's no bat. They're not thugs. For the sake of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we are talking about Belgrade today, we will be able to make order in this city that already has a million and two million people, and we have only 360 municipal police officers. Somebody cared about the order in this beautiful town. You know why? Because they filled their pockets. I read two days ago what Mr. Balsa Bozovic, our MP who hasn't been coming in for three months, has been injured by a man because the site is open. I'm sorry if a man got hurt, and how he didn't think of Vince, so to speak, my president didn't do anything for Vinci. Five hundred million have disappeared from the Belgrade city budget. Where is he? Well, in the pocket of Mr. Gilas and his associates. What else happened? Why didn't he tell you about the arrogant behavior in Sopot when he slapped that same Dragan Gilas doll, and only because they asked him awkward questions. There are some awkward questions, but we're discussing them, this is the tide, the open session, of course, that's the way to talk. It's an countless affair. At least we solve the problem by problem. The Gilas bus-plus affair, the trams of the affair, the underground containers of the affair, the boulevard of King Alexander's affair. All living affairs alone, 500 million gone with no trace. In doing so, they have not paid off the social population of social giving, shame on one. They owed pregnant women a billion and 200 were in charge of the city. That's not how it works. My distinguished colleague, Balsa Bozovic, says that they have made a team for these injured and that nothing is actually being built in Belgrade. How can it not be built? He says there's no 1,000 construction sites. That's right, there's more than 1,000 construction sites. More. He says there are no people on the site. How come there aren't people on the construction site? Then why are they making this team, who are they going to defend from? There are 10,000 construction sites in Serbia, over 1,000 construction sites exist in Belgrade. By summer, the park will be completed, Europe's most beautiful children's park. It works "Belgrade on Water", one of the most beautiful projects in this part of Europe. And not only that, we did all those 30-year-old projects, thanks to SNS, coalition partners and our President, Mr. Alexander Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56343	Thank you, colleague Malusic. The word is from Sonja Vlahovic. Here you go, colleague Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56344	Thank you, Your Honor. Respected ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues, citizens and citizens of Serbia, the new Law on the municipal militia has been arranged for the benefit of citizens, respect for the municipal order and increase the security of all citizens, especially the youngest. He will bring many solutions. Some of them are the formation of municipal police at the level of municipalities, the removal of restrictive provisions by one militiaman to 5,000 inhabitants, the possibility of forming a joint service of the municipal police by the local self-government unit, a new system of selection of candidates for taking over from the ranks of police, working in civilian, seeking information, audio and video recording of the conduct of the municipal militia, stopping and reviewing persons and vehicles and criminal provisions for non-compliance under the orders of the municipal militiaman and, ultimately, internal control in the community militia itself. The communal militia certainly brings indirect development of the environmental awareness of our citizens. We all know about the 2030 Agenda and the Sustainable Development Goals, which are 17 and are set in three groups. In the third part of these objectives of sustainable development, we are dealing with environmental protection. Conservation of the environment is the most significant economic challenge in the EU accession process. The amount of seven billion euros is the most significant investment to come in the coming period. In addition to a significant investment investment, there is certainly a need for a legislative regulation that partly assumes and controls the conservation of the environment. Although the law is exclusively focused on Belgrade, I think the key challenge is, above all, in smaller environments where environmental protection problems exist. By allowing local self-governments to form and monitor the work of municipal police, it gives the mechanism to local self-governments to control the protection of the environment more intensively in their territory. Not only through the control and prevention of environmental excesses, but primarily preventively and through enhanced education of our fellow citizens. So the role of the municipal militia is to preserve the ecological consciousness and realize the 2030 Agenda can be one of the key roles of this local service. The bill on the municipal militia is effective, modern and functional and in the voting day I will vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56345	Thank you, colleague Vlahovic. The word has a folk MP, Serbia's Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56346	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we can talk about the Law on the Communist Militia in a number of ways, and I wouldn't go one narrow way, but I'd talk a little wider in that context. In the context of our communal police force. The communal militia really is necessary to improve the situation in our city, our municipalities, our local communities, and to... Someone said the other day, when investors arrive, they land at Nicola Tesla Airport, what do they see first? First they see if our city is clean, arranged, if the vehicles are properly parked, what order is in our city. Where chaos and chaos don't come, there they don't want tourists, there they don't want investors. It's not nice there for people living in a town like that. To fix all this, and in many ways we have managed to do some things in previous years, it is necessary today to pass one such law in order to properly introduce municipal order in Belgrade, but not only in Belgrade, but I would say across Serbia. It is good that municipalities and cities across Serbia are given the authority to assess how much they need in accordance with their local needs, the needs of the population, the needs of the city, their municipalities, to have a militiaman to introduce final municipal order throughout our country. Of course, when you introduce order, you have the other side, the other side that's used to living in chaos and chaos, which doesn't matter where a car is parked, which doesn't care if the streets are clean or dirty while their pockets are full. I understand them. Those in this hall today are not, they spend time in swimming pools, resorts, cafes, and they don't care what the streets look like, because they're happy with what they stole, they've stolen the previous decades from this country, so they don't spend much time in it, and that's why they don't even care what Belgrade looks like, what our municipalities look like in Serbia. We are also interested in introducing order and this Law on the Communist Militia. I am convinced that we will succeed in making significant steps in this regard and that our citizens will feel the right way of applying this law and eventually be satisfied with what we have all managed to do together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56347	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Vera Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56348	Dear Mr. Milicevic, Ministers with Associates, fellow MPs, today we are discussing a draft law on the municipal militia, which is addressed to this home by the government. This law on the municipal militia puts aside the law that was passed in 2018, i.e. His alterations and additions are being made, so we've had the name of a communal police officer so far, and now it's the municipal militia. This law provides that municipalities, and according to their budgets and possibilities, have the right to educate their municipal militia within the framework of the obligations and the resources provided for in their wardrobe and all that is necessary to carry out tasks on the ground. This law provides for better control mechanisms for the operation of the municipal militia, the responsibility of the municipal militant. One of the newspapers in this law is the work of a municipal militiaman in a civilian. Of course, this kind of work is only in certain tasks, and sending to the field can only be done with the permission of the service manager, and the jobs that are around that are illegal sales, illegal taxi transport and so on. The communal militiamen, except for a new name, have greater powers, so they will be able to issue a spider order, for example to remove an illegally parked vehicle. They will also be able to record evidence of communal violations with tablets, such as barbaric parking, especially on foot crossings, tram tracks, or in yellow lanes. With this law, the militia will show closeness to ordinary people, they will find themselves next to them at any moment, when they need it most, and they will also prove that they are concerned that every man's life is taking place in the city in an orderly communal environment. Anyone who wishes to become a militia officer will have to meet the conditions regarding psychophysical ability, education, a passed test for a municipal militiaman, and before entering the job, the law provides for a security check. This law provides for an internal control service to be formed within the framework of the municipal militia. This service will make sure that every municipal militiaman does his job in accordance with the law and regulations of the service. Under the old law, where we change the name of a communal police officer into a municipal militiaman and regardless of the powers of the council under the proposal of this new law, the municipal police officers have so far had their hands full. Last year alone, some 124 thousand cases were formed in Belgrade, justifying the existence of this service. I call on my fellow Members to accept the bill in voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56349	I thank my colleague Jovanovic. The word is a folk letter from Stanislava Janošević. Here you are, colleague Janošević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56350	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, fellow MPs, I greatly appreciate it when the day runs in a constructive debate. No matter who the speaker is, somewhere, the conclusion is that this law is without anomalies. Although there is sometimes a sharper debate, it is based, in my opinion, solely on the personal animosities of individuals, and this is not the place in this large home, and I can only attribute it to insufficient competences and qualifications for debates on the topic, i.e. the laws that are on the agenda. The important laws on the functioning of our country are on the agenda today and the previous days, and not to say that recently there has been a debate here on the KIM report, and we did not even have the opinion of marginal political factors, because we are a democratic society. Everyone has the right to say what they think. Those who have been worthy of their opinions are individual embassies. That's where they went to kiss hands, to ask for prey, and I can tell you, I consider it a kind of betrayal of our people. All honours to those who have good intentions, but those who undermine sovereignty, territorial integrity, as well as national issues of the Republic of Serbia that Alexander Vukic is exclusively fighting for, should be asked and reduced to experience and to plan on how they will ensure the future for the coming generations. Well, we're discussing the municipal militia law today. Powered representatives are very good at speaking on the subject, I will only give an opinion on the essentials of this law from my point of view and I will start with the name itself. People mostly mixed the municipal police with the police, expected them on the ground to implement some of the ingenuities and mechanisms that could only be mixed with the MPs, which, of course, is not realistic and today we are discussing the adoption of a law on the municipal militia, which will have the opportunity to establish itself in every unit of local self-government, whether it's a municipality or a city. We said, therefore, that it would reduce that restriction for a militiaman to be to 5,000 inhabitants, which is extremely good for small local communities. When a candidate is elected, he will pay particular attention to what degree the candidate's education is, his psycho-physical readiness, but will also be taken into account during security checks on whether that person has ever been convicted. It has drawn great attention here that a member of the municipal police will be able to work in a civilian. I really don't know why. Is it because we're people from the Balkans, so we're still in some movie "Proper" and we think it's all a mystery. It's not that. It is only that a member of the municipal police will be able to enter the field, see if any anomalies are present in terms of parking in an unauthorized area, louder music in a catering facility and similar situations happening on the ground. Accordingly, each local self-government will prescribe the appearance of the communal police uniform itself and there will be audio and video recording obligations, events that will be linked through the tablets to the local self-government server. The newspaper is internal control which will be addressed by the local, or city administration, and I think it's good to do professional work. A good example of the leadership of the municipal police in the city of Zrenjanin, which has 120,000 inhabitants with its settlements, I think there is a balance between the municipal police, i.e. in the future of the municipal militia with the population, there was no need for restrictive measures, because indeed the central Banat is also known as a peaceful end. So the most important thing in the whole story is to pay attention to those minor and small things that our fellow citizens can be nervous about and stop. No doubt everything is said that in the day of the vote, I will uphold the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56351	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Olivera Ognjanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56352	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow workers, I have carefully read the proposal for a municipal militia law and I will tell you at first that I will support it because we really need it. I've also read all kinds of comments and criticisms about this bill, but it's the essence of everything. If we want a higher standard and a better way of life, then we need to get in line. We need to learn to respect each other, the space that surrounds us and the environment in which we live. The communal militia will gain one greater importance by this law and expand its operation. First of all, I find it extremely important to participate in dealing with the basic disasters, or emergency situations that we have had, for example, as we had a few days ago across Serbia. Bringing the municipal militia into local self-government and the education of its unit within the municipality will result in additional security and safer lives of citizens. It is very important that the more precise we determine all the duties of the municipal militia to prevent possible abuses of the position or excessive use of force, which is not in line with the duties described in the Bill's proposal, in Article 28. We've had several cases of earlier Bus Plus controls that have questioned the position and reputation of this service, and that's why I think the internal control of the operation of the municipal militia will play a major role. Among all the duties to be performed by the municipal militia, I consider that the most significant exercise of waste prevention control, the burning of garbage and the creation of smoke clouds, and above all, the impact of citizens' awareness of the consequences of this irresponsible behavior. The preservation of the human environment is one of the greatest global problems we face. We have to fight pollution, because it's a huge problem. In my county of Grock, we singled out 4.2 million dinars last year to clean up wild dumps, and just now my colleague was talking about the Vinch dump on the Grock municipality and which is a big problem. In the territory of Serbia and Belgrade, we inherited completely unresolved problems with wastewater, or sewers, and now we face a paradoxical situation that just those who have left us with these problems are criticising the floods that have been in the past few days. First, it is only in Belgrade from June 1st to 23rd this year that more than 100 liters of rain per cubic metre fell and that this storm hit the whole of Europe and that the mess should have been settled afterwards. Second, let's remind ourselves why they're criticizing us. Because citizens do not forget the affairs that cost Serbia a million euros, the sixm-euro Gilas affair with underground containers that have rotted, the children's "Puzle City" in Banjaca worth 36 million that has been turned into a garbage-filled space, a mockery where junkies, the pioneer town of "The Heart of Belgrade", which has been kidnapped by children for personal gain, and in the end there is a garbage dump, mice, there are many more ugly memories they have left us with, and this was just a little reminder of a piece of the thief. However, our President Aleksandar Vucic and this government are working seriously and responsibly, planning Serbia's future, designing projects and solving the problems we inherited. In the coming years, foreign investment is expected to attract billions of foreign investment only in the area of environmental protection where a large role will be played by the right municipal militia. The pollution and destruction of nature has no justification and therefore we must come from ourselves, as individuals of individuals, to influence each other, to teach our children to love their country first and to cherish it. That's why I call on my colleagues and colleagues to support all the proposed laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56353	Thank you, colleague Ognjanović. The word has a national letter from Studenka Kovacevic. Here you go, colleague Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56354	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the respected representatives of the ministry, respected citizens of Serbia, I personally felt this proposal for a law on the municipal militia while I read it gave the impression that it was very carefully written and that everything that was missing in this area in the past. I will also refer to my colleague Ognjanovic, there is the opinion that we are a majority-declared society for the arrangement of a system, which is irrelevant in which area, most of us are for the introduction of order. But then the floods and the amount of waste thrown into the river completely deny those claims. If so, it is perfectly logical to regulate a certain area by law and impose sanctions against the law. This is how it is done in all the orderly countries that we like to compare with, and I am glad that Serbia is more concerned with this and that sort of arrangement. I also heard some comments saying – is this the main problem in Serbia? That's what these same people say about every problem you get to solve. I think all problems are equally important and that they should be dealt with in parallel, because they often get intertwined and every time is a good time to solve the problem. The problem of the municipal order has been burning in Serbia for a long time if we look at the consequences that have arisen due to the lack of the existence of the municipal order. If there was a communal order, we wouldn't have tons of garbage in the rivers, or wild dumps, or illegal construction. This law goes in favour of those who are threatened by the arrogant and irresponsible, which are ordinary and honest citizens. Now every local self-government will be able to form its own municipal militia, yes, since this provision has been abolished by one municipal militiaman to five thousand inhabitants, and then the municipal militia will solve problems related to the municipal order according to specificity and certain local self-government. The local self-government itself will also determine the number of municipal militants required according to its needs. The powers of the municipal militia are now higher, which would mean that there is a obligation to act on the orders of a municipal militiaman. Special stations will also be formed, and in the larger areas and departments of the municipal militia. Citizens will also be able to report to the municipal police municipal violations. Another good solution that the law provides in favour of curbing haughtiness and irresponsibility is pills that are connected to the city server. By way of these tablets, municipal militiamen will record evidence of communal violations, which relate to barbar parking, waste disposal, etc. There is also the possibility of a militia in a civilian, it has been said, in certain situations where the offenders would not get away from the scene when they spot uniforms or marked vehicles, which is quite logical, and that possibility actually gives the chief of the municipal militia a written warrant. The conditions to become a municipal militia officer are tightened, in one word they must be men of impeccable past, in the sense that they were not in conflict with the law, or that they were not legally convicted of acts prosecuted by official duty. Finally, it is envisaged to introduce internal control as a special organisational unit to deal with the disciplinary responsibility of municipal militants. So the municipal militia will also be controlled in their work. In case they break the law or the rules of service, they will be punished. The law is excellent, I wish you successful implementation and, of course, as a citizen, I look forward to establishing order in this area and I sincerely hope that in this way it will decrease, first of all, the amount of wild dumps and the amount of garbage that ends in river streams. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56355	I thank my colleague Kovacevic. The word is made by the People's Messenger Dalibor Radičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56356	The Honorable President, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, the Honorable Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, today we are talking about a bill on the municipal militia. My opinion is that we all agree that there is a need for a service that will primarily deal with the municipal order, that is, the implementation of the Law on the Conservation of Community Order. We've all been in a position to be irritated by improperly parked cars or can even say bahato parked, that we can't move around the sidewalk, that we're at risk of being surrounded by cars and walking down the street, and the fact is that the traffic police can't afford to sanction this kind of behavior. Each of us is harassed by wild dumps that we often see, and we often participate in their formation ourselves. The aim of the municipal militia is not to punish, although it is sometimes necessary, the aim is to influence citizens' awareness that their actions do not pollute the environment, and that they do not endanger the safety of all traffic users. The aim of the municipal militia is to prevent rampage in the streets of cities, guard traffic signs and tear down fences on construction sites, loud music in cafes, and much more. All of this is prevented by irresponsible individuals react differently if they know that this behavior can lead to monetary punishment. It seems to me that this punishment is the most effective and the best thing to do is prevent it from working. In this proposal for a law on the municipal militia, I was carefully attracted to certain provisions of the law that I am going to discuss today. It should be noted that it is a good thing that the provisions of the old law have been abolished where the number of municipal militiamen is limited to one militiaman to five thousand inhabitants. I also positively assess the provisions of the law on the possibility of education of the joint utility service by the local self-government unit, which is particularly important for small local self-governments. When we talk about this, I can't, not to mention that certain local self-governments will not be able to form a municipal militia because of the Max Number Act, not because these local self-governments are irresponsible, but because they really need more workers. For example, my Alexine, the number of employees does not exceed the maximum number, but because of great territory, we really need more workers. The municipal company, municipal services at the moment, need to engage an additional number of workers in order to cover the entire territory of the municipality, by organising, by taking out the trash for which all technical conditions in the form of containers and machinery have been acquired. It's a similar situation with the plumbing, especially if we're looking at the fact that all the rural plumbing should go into their jurisdiction. The Lane Children's Institute needs a new job. The number of children reported on hold is over 300. There are technical conditions to open five new groups at the moment, but the decision on the maximum number of employees says otherwise. All of these are reasons that many local self-government will slow down in the formation of a municipal militia, and there is a need for these services. As far as the Community Police Act is concerned, I must also commend the new selection system, i.e. selecting candidates to establish the working relationship of a municipal militiaman, and in particular to commend the provision that each candidate must pass the security check before receiving a call from a municipal militia. In this way, the possibility of unworthy persons getting a uniform of the municipal militia and implementing the provisions of the Law on the municipal militia will be reduced, leading to the creation of trust by citizens in members of the municipal militia. When I analyse the entire Law on the Communist militia, I come to the conclusion that we have a quality bill before us and in the voting day I will vote to adopt this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56357	Thank you, colleague Radčević. The word has the People's MP Marko Zeleg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56358	Dear MPs, representatives of the ministry, the draft law on the municipal militia, in addition to the change in the name of the service of the municipal police in the municipal militia, which is conditioned by amendments to the 2018 Law on Police, the new bill defines the new competences of the service which will allow for more effective handling and control of regulations and legal provisions. The bill allows municipalities to form services and its functioning, thus setting up a system for detecting violations of the municipal order in the territory of the whole Republic and what is more important is the preventive operation of the municipal militia in preventing these violations and helping to remove existing weaknesses in the exercise of the authority of local self-government units. For this reason, the city of Belgrade was the main initiator of this proposal for a municipal militia law, as for a long time, the city's leadership has seen the need for greater competences to carry out jobs more effectively and to increase the number of members of the municipal militia, in order to establish a communal order and more effective law enforcement for which Belgrade is responsible. Over the past five years, Belgrade has worked intensively to develop a utility system and has seen that 300 municipal police officers are few for Belgrade's territory and that 1.8 million people who are growing daily need more, more effective enforcement of the law also requires greater powers of municipal services. The bill provides for the exercise of the city's competence in the field of municipal action, environmental protection, human beings and goods, and maintains order and use of land, local roads, public buildings and business in the city's jurisdiction. The new bill removes the lack of data from the person. Authorisations for the examination of persons and objects and stopping and inspection of vehicles have been extended, making this type of authorisation more clear and clearly determining the subject matter of the examination. In addition to the introduction of new mechanisms for the operation of the municipal police, the bill provides for better control mechanisms for the operation of the municipal militia and the responsibility of militiamen in the conduct and disciplinary responsibility of the service itself. The SNS bill seeks to introduce additional order in the affairs of municipal control and order and enable citizens of Belgrade, as well as all municipalities, the right to a better quality of life and also enable other local self-governments to form a municipal militia in order to make the law more effective and effective from their jurisdiction. The job of the municipal militia is not repression, but advisory action and primary warning to eliminate the bad habits that some citizens have acquired during the non-application of the law during the former regime. The conscious behaviour of citizens primarily towards the community and its environment has the only goal that this law wants to achieve. In voting day, I call on fellow Members to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56359	Thank you, colleague Zeleg. The word has a National MP, Radoslav Cokic. Here you go, colleague Cokic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56360	The Honorable President, the Honorable Ministers, the Honorable State Secretary, the Honorable fellow MPs, I would like to discuss a little differently from what the discussions have been so far and therefore I ask the Ministers to give me some attention. This law aims to facilitate work primarily for mayors and municipal services who are responsible for solving problems, that is its essence. His essence is not to be repressive. We must and only introduce legislation will improve the population's attitude towards the ecological sphere. What is very important is that we allow citizens that they can behave adequately, by having conditions to postpone municipal waste to the right place, to park the vehicle in the right place, and those who control it are meant to regulate it, to punish whoever commits the offence. In my municipality, in 2005, a job was entrusted to the Serbian-German company to remove municipal waste. They removed wild dumps, over a hundred wild dumps under the agreement, and the first wish and first goal of the German who was one of the partners was to start with the education of small children from preschool, from first and fourth classes, because, please, when we teach children to put the trash aside in an adequate way, they also pass it on to parents. This is very important now, it is just the end of the school year, and when Minister Sarcevic and Minister Trivan were here, I also spoke about the subject, it is very important that the government make a decision to start with the education of young generations to behave adequately towards municipal waste, and that is what is very important. The law we're passing is designed to prevent the population from acting in an adequate way, not to throw garbage in unauthorized places, but, I say, we need to give them places to do it. I hope we'll give this subject some attention, because that's very important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56361	Thank you, colleague Cokic. The People's Messenger Nenad Mitrovica has the word. He's not there. The word has a folk MP, Dragana Kostic. Here you go, colleague Kostic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56362	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, People's MPs, citizens of Serbia, before I begin my discussion on the agenda today, it's the Law on the Communist Militia, I want first of all to congratulate the citizens of the Kings on the opening of the Civil Airport, on Vidovdan, thanks to our President Aleksandr Vukic and the Government, who have made superhuman efforts to complete this project as soon as possible. By the way, as far as the Law on the Communist Militia, which is on the agenda today, I would like to discuss similar to the previous speaker Mr. Cokic, through the example of my local self-government Sokobanje, where I come from. Of course, we benefit from abolishing the restrictions on the provisions – one militiaman to 5,000 inhabitants, since in Sokobanja 120,000 tourists visit this place annually and I must boast that in 2018 we recorded a 97% higher number of tourists in Sokobanja than in 2017. One reason is certainly the introduction of a voucher for tourists to use in Serbia's territory and we must also be grateful to our President, Alexander Vukic, who introduced it a few years ago. However, the number of tourists in Sokobanja also registered growth in this year compared to last year, for the past five months 17% and more tourists visited this very important tourist destination. That means we don't have to hire just three municipal militias, because only 15,000 people live in Soko Banja Municipality. At a time when various events, concerts and other events are organised, there are over 30,000 citizens in Soko Banja in one day, which is certainly necessary to employ a larger number of municipal militias. I would also like to commend this law in a provision saying that the powers of municipal militiamen also serve to protect the environment. Since my local self-government has been the first ecological municipality in Serbia since the 1990s and has owned over 20 excursions in nature, it will certainly be the responsibility of municipal militias to allow all excursions to be neat and to expect tourists who visit it throughout the year. Something else that no one, I think, has told me about this law, which is that certain municipal militias will be specially trained to work with minors. Of course, this is very important, given that mostly younger populations of 18 years of age, especially in the late evening hours for spending, are ready to make some incidents, i.e. containers, garbage cans and other things, to put in other places than where it is intended and even some know that they are disrupting public order and peace, but they also know that they are destroying benches and other mobileists in parks. It certainly took time for all of this, since we are announcing the next year's suspension of the employment ban, one way is to hire new young people, which is the goal of this government and our President, Alexander Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56363	Thank you, colleague Kostic. The word has the People's MP Veroljub Matic. Here you go, fellow Matić.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56364	Thank you. The first thing I'm saying is, I think this is a short-needed need to form a municipal militia at all levels and in municipalities and in cities, for the reasons of and the need to control and get used to all of this communal order that we all need as citizens to carry out, start with the behavior of a pisster and so on. What I think is good is that the municipal militia will be trained, educated, unbalanced. I think that uniform, we're simply citizens who are used to respecting the uniform and I think it will contribute to the quality work of a municipal militiaman. For these reasons, I appeal that when it happens, when the municipalities and cities make decisions on unification to really be at one needed level and to be a uniform that will be respected. Since the uniform is in question, there is a vertical order of command, because as soon as the uniform is in question a strict command to establish, or vertical, such as police, militia, etc. What contributes to one quality of work is the technical equipment of the municipal militia, and I think it should be maximumly equipped to apply that camera equipment to the extreme and further, and that as simply as in the military, we are equipped not to have the war and the municipal militia should be equipped so that we all respect the communal order, and as little as we use that equipment that we are given. She should serve, ultimately, her purpose. I'm not to be punished, I am that as citizens who should respect it, we simply realize that there are certain rules for us and for others and for the environment in which we live, that simply that our environment is better and better, especially for those young generations. What the municipal militia does, it's our life, it's our everyday life, every day we meet up with it, we're all hit by a municipal militia, but if we respect certain rules, a simple municipal militia will only help us to keep it all in one line, in one row. We will all be better off living in that environment as well as others who come into our midst. What I would like in particular to ask the minister, which is Article 54(1), where it is said that the rules for the implementation of this law by the minister responsible for the local self-government system will be implemented within a year. I agree that the serious sublegal act that the minister is about to bring, such as shooting on-site, such as the conduct of control of the municipal police themselves. It requires one expertise, one seriousness, they're tricky questions, but in order to allow for the speedy implementation of this municipal militia law, I think it's a six-month deadline. I haven't read the amendments, I don't know if anyone has submitted an amendment to shorten this deadline, I've submitted the amendment, but I'm too late since I missed the deadline for the amendment. So I would ask the minister, I think he would do a favor to all municipalities, primarily to the municipalities that they can apply the law as soon as possible because the law cannot be applied without sublegal acts. We have an amendment to move the deadline. You have an amendment, nice to meet you. So I suggest that if there is an amendment to accept such an amendment or that you suggest something to cut deadlines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56365	Thank you, fellow Matić. The word has a National MP Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic. The word has the People's MP Milan Ljubic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56366	Thank you, Your Honor. Respected ministers with associates, respected MPs, the main reason for the adoption of the Law on the Communist Militia is the need for municipal militias to be educated in municipalities, it is formed as an internal organisational unit within the municipality, or city administration. The functioning of municipalities has seen significant difficulties in maintaining the municipal order and effective maintenance of the laws that are within the jurisdiction of the municipalities. This kind of organisation of the service and its functioning will contribute to detecting violations in the municipal order as well as better preventive action. The purpose of the municipal militia is to provide and carry out municipal activities, such as protecting the environment, people and good, local roads, streets and other public buildings, protection and order in the use of land. The new bill allows for the possibility of acting without an official uniform but only on the written order of the Chief. Work in civilians opens up the possibility of effective application of the municipal militia especially in areas of illegal occupation of public areas, illegal sales, illegal taxi transport as well as noise in catering facilities. In these areas of maintaining the communal order, it is necessary to operate without uniforms and markings and otherwise the perpetrators have time to leave the scene of the offence, so the municipal militia has been prevented from sanctioning the perpetrators and establishing a municipal order. The jobs of the municipal militia are also maintaining order from the field of public cleanliness, transport and disposal of municipal and other waste, parking, maintenance of municipal facilities, markets, parks, green and other public areas. New powers have also been introduced, authority has been extended to examine the vehicle's face and objects. According to this municipal militia, it is authorized to stop the vehicle in breach of the regulations, to carry out its inspection, as well as to examine the persons and objects in the vehicle. This authority will have the use of unauthorized transport or unloading of land, shot, waste and other material, creating dumps on public surfaces. A special problem in creating wild dumps has been seen in maintaining the municipal order. The experience of certain municipalities on the ground speaks of a reduction in the number of wild dumps. For example, in 2017, their number dropped from 40 to 31, and now they are 21. Trend is that by adopting and implementing this law only in the next few years, in particular, the next two to three years, 90% of the dump will be removed, and 10% will re-emerge because the citizens' awareness of it has not yet awakened. So this kind of legal solution is to influence this change and to have better results, to be aware of that. Afterwards, the problems of citizens are also a variety of types of clogging of sidewalks in the city zone that prevent pedestrians from moving uninterruptedly, as well as improper parking that points to municipal negligence, the damage that individuals inflict on urban property, the takeover of public land, the various types of environmental pollution, the nocturnal noise, the keeping of animals in the city zone. That's why the municipal militia is in the service of the citizens. It stands at their disposal 24 hours a day and strives to increase the number of outposts so that its members can react more quickly. We cannot continue to act unconsciously towards the environment, our environment, our urban continents where we live and work. That is why it is necessary for citizens to recognise the municipal militia as a socially responsible and successful organisation that wants to act with the realization of major projects and actions. The point is to solve more quickly and efficiently the municipal problems in the city that are within the jurisdiction of the municipal militia. This will enable citizens to carry out their daily activities more easily and better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56367	I thank my colleague Ljubic. The People's Messenger Milovan Krikapic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56368	Thank you, President-in-Office, distinguished ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues today, I would say briefly, but my colleagues have already said a lot about the proposal for a law on the municipal police. In order to effectively manage the state, there is a need for institutional capacity with established procedures and relations between competent entities and administration, so we are passing laws and amendments and additions to laws where modern solutions are defined, and thus Serbia shows a commitment to draw closer to the most developed countries in each respect. President Aleksandar Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia are daily focused on taking action to solve all problems, and the adoption of legal frameworks is certainly the first in a series of activities to solve any problem. Fully responsible and planned at the highest levels of social and political consciousness, accepting the full view that municipal problems are a very important problem and spheres of social, health and economic life for citizens. Trends in the number of municipal violations can be reduced and warned only by well-organised work and by implementing well-designed and coordinated measures that we are doing daily. The main reason for the adoption of the municipal militia law is the need for the municipal militia to be educated in municipalities as well, so that it could be more effective in introducing the municipal order, and the citizens would be protected from the boast of individuals, regardless of whether it's heavy parking, loud music, waste of garbage and other things. So, the task of the municipal militia is to take care of every petty communal problem so that our citizens are satisfied. In addition to a change of name from police to police why there is a reason this law has defined and increased the number of municipal police officers who will be able to carry out their duties and tasks in civilian uniform, of course by written order of the commissioner, and they are increasing the number of competencies and powers. I wouldn't talk about it, 'cause my colleagues said a lot. So I'm just going to say that, by making this law, there was certainly another comparative experience in mind, and it is freely possible to conclude that the introduction of a municipal militia in the municipalities foreseen by this law is accompanied by modern trends, which highlight the new role of local communities in maintaining communal and second order and strengthening their partnership with the police. The law creates a legal framework for the organisation and operation of the municipal police, whose introduction should contribute to the removal of existing weaknesses in the exercise of the competence of local self-government units. That's why the SNS will vote in voting day for its adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56369	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Zvonimir Djokic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56370	I thank the chairman. Dear Mr. Minister with Associates, honourable MPs, there are more reasons to pass this law, but one of the more important reasons is that we have an obligation to change the name of the municipal police into another name. We chose to make it a municipal militia, because by passing the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Police in 2018, we set a deadline and a condition and obligation for the police to use only the police, i.e. Army of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. Military police. This name is not reserved for brand protection purposes, but for much more serious reasons, because police mean that someone, among other things, is armed, has much more authority, and the municipal militia has some very different powers, and therefore this name is going to be new, which will be adopted, adequate to the obligations, the tasks it will have. Also, the restriction refers to appearance, i.e. The color of the uniform that future municipal militiamen will wear and it will differ from city to city, from municipality to municipality, as they will, but in any case it will not be dark blue, i.e. They won't be allowed to look like a police uniform, i.e. Military police. I think it's important here to point out that the other elements of visual identity must also be different from those used in the police, the military police. It refers to the inscriptions, the badges, the other elements of the uniform, and even the appearance of the vehicle, the vehicles themselves, i.e. signs on vehicles to be taken care of. They have to be completely different from the police. Why does this matter? This is important precisely because of the removal of the possibility of abuse, and not to mention, we had in the past and examples of abuse from the local police themselves, abuse of our official position. In order for this to not happen in the future, we must reduce such a possibility. The main purpose and task of the municipal militia is to worry about communal problems, to introduce order, communal order, to protect citizens from any boast. I would first of all say that there is the most important introduction of order on illegal construction, then disrespecting other rules of municipal order, throwing trash out of place that are intended for disposal of garbage, barbaric parking, too loud music, various smells, smoke, etc. They'll have a lot of work to do, all in order to please all citizens of the state. It is important here to point out that municipal militiamen will not, therefore, be armed. It's a very important thing. In order to reduce the possibility of abuse, one newspaper is introduced, which is the condition of a security check on every possible candidate for a municipal militiaman, but not just for them, but for those communal, now police officers, and future millionaires, who have been working for a long time now in the municipal police, and once we adopt this law in the militia. So a security check that will eliminate those people who, let's be gentle to say, who have sinned in their work so far. It is very important here that all candidates for municipal police officers meet various conditions, including psychophysical ability, education, passed a test for municipal police officers, and the most important thing is the existence, i.e. the absence of a security disturbance for the performance of the duties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56371	I thank my colleague, Djokic. The word is made by MP Branimir Rancic. Here's a colleague of Rancic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56372	Thank you, Chairman, Mr. Milicevic. Dear Ministers, distinguished guests from the ministry, respected Members of the People's Parliament, I will speak of this law, as well as my colleague Cokic, in another way, because I think previous speakers have said everything that is important to this law. In front of us, the MPs are one law that has been done in a very transparent way, which I must say as a very important fact. This claim is accompanied by the fact that the public debate on the draft law was conducted in line with the adopted public debate programme between 16 February and 6 March 2019, as well as the fact that the draft law was officially set up on the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government website. During the public debate, the draft law was presented on a round table in the Sava Centre, held in Belgrade on 28 February 2019. During the public debate, a total of 17 entities submitted their observations. A significant number of objections and suggestions to individual members of the draft of this law were related to the concept and performance of the business, i.e. Article 10. In order for certain dilemmas to be solved, my suggestion would have been to you from the ministry if it had to be done in front of the law to clarify certain concepts that figure in the law. For example, in Article 10(2), it is said – protection against noise in the environment. The environment is a very broad term, so we understand each other. By definition, the environment or human environment represents everything that surrounds us, or anything directly or indirectly related to man's life and production activity. So we can view the environment as a five-component system -- atmosphere, hydrosphere, litosphere, land and organisms. Since the largest number of applications are sent to the municipal police by residents due to noise in buildings, i.e. apartments, this concept of environment should be narrowed down and clearly defined in relation to the housing environment, and the housing environment, which is made up of an apartment or group of apartments along with the surrounding area and infrastructure used jointly by housing users. I'm potentialing this because the housing environment is mentioned in terms of the maintenance of the facilities. Of course, the transactions referred to in Article 1(2) and Article 2 of this Article shall not relate to the jurisdiction of the inspection established by the law governing municipal activities. In the end, I'm going to be résumé. In particular, housing needs to be singled out as a narrow part of the environment due to the maximum number of applications relating to non-respect of the home order in buildings, or apartments. Thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56373	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go, colleague Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56374	The Honorable Vice President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Minister with associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this law is very good. Let me say a few sentences. In the first row, the municipal militia could have been founded by the city so far, and this bill allows municipalities to establish a municipal militia, of course where certain conditions exist. In particular, as my colleagues have said, it can also be situations without uniforms, with special markings, and also for certain jobs and by a written order. Let me say, since most colleagues have talked about this, let me say two more, three sentences. First, to say that the party of the former regime, pictured in various variants of democratic parties and others, did not take care of the communal order. That's how she's known. "Bullshit Mafia" in Belgrade during the time of the mayor was the Giki Mafia, known in the people... Why does the people call him the Giki Mafia, because it's got into politics as a common golly, and it's out of politics with 700m euros. That so-called. "The garbage mob" was sentenced to 73 years in prison, and embezzled the budget of the city of Belgrade during the Gjiqi mafia by 310m dinars. Look at the wonders, the process lasted 10 years. Word is, I do know from reliable sources that the Jiqi Mafia has finally been pressured to break free from this mob. Of course, it is known to the citizens why he put pressure on them. That's why his companies were increased by that much, by 700 million when he got out of politics. Look at the wonders, here he is again in politics. It's not just him, there's the president, new DS President Zoran Lutovac. He's already recognized in the people how invisible he is. The people call him a stray. He strayed into politics, as you can see, and the citizens are really well-evaluated. There is also Vuk Jeremic, former DS member, known as a member of the international gang of thieves and frauds. I don't want to pick them up any further. Best said about them by their DS member, otherwise former Ambassador Svetislav Basara, who said DS is in various variants of self-government, quote. That's what he said in May 22, 2019. I quote that DS is a self-government, interesting community of crooks and thieves. It's a finished quote. Finally, Your Honor, here they are again in some Alliance for Serbia, I call it - an alliance for another Serbian robbery, traveling to Serbia as one ordinary circuser and one of them is actor Nikola Kojo, 04 February, 2019, said, quote: "If protests fail, I am leaving this country! “Just three months later, so on 10.05.2019, he said and explained how the protests failed, and I quote: "People slowly realize that the protest has been from the beginning from the end, led by censors by hunters with the help of various half-worlds and half-journalists and works of students who trusted them” Complete quote. I ask the respected actor to keep his promise and leave Serbia. From what you've heard, SNS, gives full support to this law and in voting day, we'll vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56375	Thank you, colleague Atlagic. The word has a folk letter from Tiana the Davidite. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the principled search is concluded, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? The word has a folk letter from Tatjana Macura. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56376	I thank the chairman. I accidentally left my presentation to the Modern Serbia Party for the end of today, and I had the opportunity to hear the opening presentation of colleagues and MPs to the ruling majority. It really seems to me that the Law on the Communist Police, which should cease to apply by adopting this law on the municipal militia, was all that actually brought Serbia prosperity and success, and that prosperity would wait for us when we passed this law on the municipal militia. With that in mind, I can't really believe that colleagues across the street have absolutely every absence of criticism even of the laws proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and I don't think it's allowed, especially from the point of view that they are MPs who protect the interests of Serbian citizens, regardless of whether they are on the side of positions or opposition at the moment. This amount of praise is simply unwarranted. This bill was sent to the assembly procedure in early June. Prior to that, it seems to me that a day earlier was adopted at a session of the government of the Republic of Serbia. This information may not have been so significant that this law on that day was not the only comment made by the deputy mayor of Belgrade Mayor Goran Vesic, not by the ministry's representative or by Minister Ruzic himself. So, it kind of fell into my eyes, because if the law was passed at a cabinet session by being referred before by a competent minister, I don't know on what grounds in the public opinion that the largest number of comments on this law are given by someone who is not a legislator of this law? The municipal police were formed at the end of 2010 with the aim of seducing municipal order on city streets to address everyday citizens' problems, such as vandalism, noise, public and private property damage. At that time, the announced police officers were presented as green monks to change Serbia for the better, which means that the Law on the Communist Police is being applied in Serbia for about a decade after us. However, in light of the law addressed to the MPs, unfortunately, the report on the work of the municipal police covers only the period from 2013 to 2015. Unfortunately, we have no record of the entire ten-year work of this service. These data may exist, but they are simply not available to the people's MPs, nor to the citizens of Serbia. What I can safely say is that due to numerous incidents, municipal police officers have been running the image of blatant communals for the past 10 years. In most cases, over-authorization has been demonstrated and, as I have already said, here's almost a decade since the formation of this service we don't know what the effects of their work and actions are, or what the effects of the application of the Law on the Communist Police are. In 2017, something was tried to do with this damaged image. At that time, the government's current prime minister, Mrs Ana Brnabic, was the head of the ministry. The budget plans to allocate about 2.5 million dinars to an analysis that would affect the reputation of this service. By coming to your head of this ministry, this tender has been hitched, which I can welcome, but if we consider that it's only worth 20,000 euros, I don't think it's some investment that doesn't make sense, but simply, it's not the point. So the improvement of the image of this service cannot be solved by us thinking about how it is cosmetically needed to change in relation to how it should fundamentally change. In the meantime, her reputation for the municipal police in the last 10 years has brought down itself by overruling the power and disrespect of the law, from physical dealings with citizens in controlling illegal street resales, possession of bus-pluses, cards to citizens, to bringing in NGOs activists and associations and preventing news teams from doing their job. There are even videos of these incidents. They're available online. I will remind you of only one case that seems to me to be interesting for the citizens of Serbia and that it is known to everyone. It's a matter of one thing, I'm free to say, the sadistic experience of representatives of the municipal police, who, on several occasions, committed virtually terror over a street watermelon seller, who eventually suffered a fatal heart attack in one of these incidents. Not to go back to this one, not to any other cases, I once again conclude that for the poor image of the municipal police in Serbia alone, and only the communal police are responsible. In 2016, however, there were attempts to put this law in the assembly procedure, but a number of such incidents probably delayed the fact that this law was found in the assembly procedure. In the meantime, we have adopted amendments to the Police Act, it seems to me in March 2018, and in this law we have somehow limited the use of the police term, so we are now in a position to use the term militia, i.e. to replace municipal police officers with municipal militiamen. One of the prime ministers in the ruling majority, I don't think he's in the O.R. right now, I think he's a colleague from the P.U.P.P.S. Parliament Club, whether it's accidental or intentional, said it's a communal arrangement and it's an internal security system, and as I prepare for this debate, and while I've been reading the bill's amendment to those powers that have been increased and the powers that have been increased by the municipal police, or the future militia, it seems to me that this colleague has not even made some big and significant slip that he had during his opening presentation. In his opening statement of the minister when he spoke of this law, he spoke of the term "communal directors" and it seems to me that in this atmosphere, in which the image of the municipal police is at stake, that the term "communal directors" at this point could somehow be more pytical, somehow more receptive to the citizens, that we simply avoid using this term "milion", which again carries an ugly connotation about the past, which, unfortunately, is close to us and back 20 years. The law introduces a significant newspaper and provides that the municipal militia will educate units of local self-government, i.e. municipalities, cities and the city of Belgrade itself, while the earlier legal solution applied only to cities and opened the possibility of education of a common municipal militia, which, based on co-operation agreements, is being educated by local self-government units in line with this and the law governing local self-government. What concerns me is who will exercise control over the work of the municipal police, since this law says that labour control will be in the hands of the chief of staff and I am taking another opportunity to point out Minister Ruzic and all other ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, it is amazing that we need every law that comes into the assembly procedure to aim at an incredible centralisation of power. It's also with this law case and with the law that was, I think, the first or second point on the agenda, when he was the Minister of Education here in the O.R. So there is no law that enters the congregation procedure that does not say that at some point we will be able to centralize under the pretext that we will be able to implement some solutions more quickly and more easily. However, I also think that the Modern Serbian Party, which I represent, thinks it is wrong and that we simply need to get out of this mode of centralization of power, which is unnecessary. Citizens will find an interesting change that does not provide for a limit in the number of members of the municipal police. The solution so far predicted that there could be no more than one municipal officer on every 5,000 inhabitants. By adopting this law, an internal organisation unit cannot have less than three militiamen, but is not talking about the maximum number of employees. That's something I find interesting. As I initially stated, therefore, somewhere near the end of the reasoning of this law sent to the MPs, there is a report on the work of the Communist Police for the period from 2013 to 2015. When you look at that table, therefore, given that it is only cities, it seems to me that three cities have not listed the number of employees of municipal police officers, therefore, it is Smederev, Loznica and Kruševec, which has a total of 649 employees of municipal police officers, of which 333 employees are in Belgrade. If we're counting on, say, these three cities that haven't sent reports, that's about 50 more cops, so we're talking about a total number of some 700 municipal police officers for the entire territory of Serbia, and in a statement by Goran Vesic, who announced this law, I again appeal that he was not invited to speak at all about this law in public, that it was to be done by Minister Ruzic or one of his associates, so he announced that 1,000 municipal militiamen would be employed in Belgrade. So it's just, from the point of view of SMS inadmissible. We still think we need a simpler state apparatus, a simpler state service with a smaller number of employees, but to be all of these services in the interest of citizens and to be more efficient. Only an increase in the number of employed municipal militants does not solve the problem of municipal order in Serbia, but it seems to me that this law will serve as an excellent excuse for hiring party activists for which, meanwhile, there was not enough space for them to be employed elsewhere. The paper in the law also provides a provision that municipal police officers are normally doing a job unbalanced, but according to the written order of the chief they can do so without an official uniform, i.e. I can also act in a civilian. Why? Why would any municipal militia officer be able to act without a uniform if he can't do it at the moment? So their competencies are almost overlapping with police powers and then they have an opportunity under pronunciation, I can't even imagine what kind of malfeasance they can be, whether these warrants will be anti-dated and so forth, and not that we can't question this kind of abuse. So, I'm just wondering why a miliary communal can act without a uniform? I don't think there's any need for that. The jobs of the municipal militia in the earlier law were limited, but in practice they were more serious, there were more serious overruns and use of force beyond all means. I assume that this solution, which extends jurisdiction to other matters in accordance with the law, has been proposed because of its application in practice. You can imagine that fear of citizens who say they can do other jobs in accordance with the law and do so in civilians. One of the more interesting provisions is, we heard here on several occasions, the justification by the ruling majority is that the municipal police will be able to stop vehicles, which is otherwise done by the traffic police and in this sense the title of Article 23 in this law is contrary to the Traffic Safety Act, because it states that another of the powers of the municipal police is to stop, examine persons, objects and vehicles. The law introduces the possibility that a municipal militiaman would stop a vehicle found in violation of a regulation that falls within its scope, while he was previously authorised only to examine vehicles that are close by and under the supervision of the person under examination. The Law on the Communist Militia significantly extends powers in terms of supervision, allowing the municipal militia to make audio and video recording of the public place for the performance of jobs, using appropriate equipment and both public places and their behaviour. In this way, it is predicted that the collected data which cannot be used in the procedure which is, I believe, are significantly destroyed within one year of the limitation or initiation or conduct of the infringement procedure. Then why do they need the data they're gonna collect and keep for a year? For what needs will they even store this data and then why allow them to record at all if they can't use these materials that they collect anywhere else? One of the options that this law opens is that municipal militias will be able to use a sprayer with a inspiring fact and this when I've read somehow in line with these experiences before, I'm really wondering what it's going to look like to be the work of a municipal militiaman on the street and what the impression of citizens are going to create about the operation of a municipal militia, and a fear has already been created, given that a recent rule on the work of police has been adopted in which the same way, even on some of the persons over whom it should not be applied, such as pregnant women, persons with disabilities, etc. I'll say there's no need for this if a municipal militiaman doesn't act as a local sheriff, which we've had a chance to see on several occasions, and with some examples of better practices and some co-operation between citizens and the municipal militia, we can avoid any unpleasant situations and it seems to me that it's completely unnecessary to give them additional powers and resources that they can do their job. The communal militia will be able to collect communications, data, information from a person who is presumed to be available to them for the purpose of carrying out the activities of the municipal militia. These notifications may be oral or written. Delivery of such notices on request is mandatory. We're talking about the municipal militia, not the police, the guards of the basic municipal order in this country. Why would such information be provided to these officials on request? We do have a large number, an inaccessible number of overlaps between the municipal militia of the future and the police who have their responsibilities. In this sense it really comes down, working to form one, or at least to get the impression that it is working to create one parapolitical formation. As regards the financing, it has been stated that training by professionals will not require extra funding, that they will not be paid for that training before they have laid down it. It's going to be a condition for starting a working relationship and it's just fine. What concerns me is that the cost of forming and financing the work of the municipal militia will be borne exclusively by local self-government units. I'm going to remind myself of this meeting, and it seems to me, among the first laws, that he passed the Law on local self-government, where additionally reduced funds going towards local self-government, and now I'm interested in those 1,000 new employees and other announcements that we could hear, how are we going to do that in the first place? How will this be possible unless we plan some new amendments to this bill or the allocation of some new funds in the budget? And, of course, I am also concerned about those municipalities that are at the mercy of the current ruling majority, which are co-loquially called opposition municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56377	Thank you, colleague Macura. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to pass laws on the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The word has a proposing representative, Minister Branko Ruzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56378	I thank the chairman. It is very short, simply in response to some of the allegations made here, as regards established practices, so when one legislative proposal passes at a session of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, it is the government of the Republic of Serbia, or the press service, which publishes information that the law has passed. Also, state secretaries at the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government spoke on the subject in public. If we want to be well-intentioned, it is also verifiable and I see no reason to now be talking about whether or not the deputy mayor or any mayor or president of the municipality across Serbia was right or not to talk about the bill that entered, in fact, into that public traffic. Also, the fact is that the law was ready in 2015 and, of course, as you said, did not enter the assembly procedure, but did not see the light of day due to the 2016 elections and that is also significant. It was mentioned here that certain promotional or pi-ar activity, and it was the municipal police, we need to understand that the Ministry of State Administration, or that the municipal police are not the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government and that this is not part of the work of the Ministry. What is also, simply, the thing that I would say is not standing, and you can agree or not, to mention centralisation in a situation where the law allows all municipalities and of course cities already have the right, to establish a community militia service, in accordance with their financial opportunities and in accordance with their needs. So they define that number. On the other hand, you suggest that this number be kind of unified. So, are you into decentralisation or are you into centralization? There's really no centralization here, and I don't see it either. As for the possibility of stopping private vehicles, that provision is set out in the Law of Transport of Passengers in Public Traffic. And that law gives communal cops the opportunity to do it. Now we've just expanded that possibility and it refers to trucks that, as we were saying, can drive a shot or some other stuff. That's the basic reason. The mention of audio recordings. So video surveillance has been there for 10 years. The audio is now added as a solution to where these data will be, you asked why these data are being stored, they are being kept for the initiation of a misdemeanor procedure which, of course, can be initiated, but can take a long time. There was another mention of repression. What is important to point out, only in Belgrade, is this as an example, in the last year there were 123,000 actions, and only 16 cases of use of the means of coercion. So this disproportion tells you clearly that in no way can we talk about boasting, boasting and repressive and the nature of the community police service itself or now the municipal militia. Also, it's important to say that there is a prevention. So we've had more than 14,000 warnings and that's something that's also very significant. In any case, I believe that this law really opens up one broader spectrum of possibilities for all local self-government units across Serbia. This isn't an imperative norm, it's not an obligation. So it's about the possibility that municipalities can take advantage of, if they estimate that the work of a service like this will allow the inflow of funds into the budget to be greater, but above all, to achieve communal order and avoid boasting on any basis. Also, the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government is not responsible for financial transfers to local self-government, so it simply does not stand for the proposal you made. What's already in place, we all know that, I think the public knows, for 10 years now, that law also works in relation to the cities that this possibility has been left behind. Of course, these funds in their budgets are planned by local self-government units, and that's something that's perfectly natural. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56379	Thank you. I am concluding a principled search on the draft law. Now we're gonna take an hour off. We continue work at 1405 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56380	Dear People's MPs, we continue with further work, with the fourth item of the agenda. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that they have been invited to attend the meetings of Sinish Mali, Minister of Finance with Associates. You have received the bill of law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a principle search on the draft law amending the Law on compensation for the use of public goods. Does the representative of Proposer Sinish Mali, the finance minister, want a word? Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56381	Thank you very much. Dear Chairman, honourable MPs, in 2019, behind us a key year on the development of our infrastructure and travel and railways. We have been listening for seventy years to promises that someone will finish Corridor 10, that they will connect the border with Croatia, Hungary, with the border with Northern Macedonia and the highway. After 70 years of promises you've been listening to this year, we've fulfilled that promise, we've mastered the Grdelitic ravine, we've finished the southern arms of Corridor 10, and that's just the beginning of the good news that Serbian citizens are supposed to expect this year. By the end of August of the month, we will also complete the highway, Corridor 11, connect Obrenovac and Cačak. By the end of the year, we will also connect the highway and the new Surcin and Obrenovac bridge. At the end of the summer, we expect the opening of the so-called. The eastern arms of Corridor 10, so the highway from Belgrade via Nis to Dimitrovgrad, i.e. the Bulgarian border. These are the great successes of our travel industry. These are the great successes of our construction industry and, I say, something you've listened to 70 years ago and so far no one but us has managed to end it. I say, for the citizens of Serbia, the good news is just waiting for us. We have already set out to build part of Corridor 11 towards the Montenegrin border, therefore, Preljina – Požega. We're on our way to the so-called. Moravian corridor. So we shall connect Chachak, and the King, and the Krushec, and the Poiate. Also a huge, huge project and very important for further development, especially central Serbia. We leave this year with the Ruma highway – Šabac – Loznica. Another big step and the promise we made and that we'll keep. Kuzmin - Racha, too. So, four or five new highways are going to be built only this year, and we're ending most of Corridor 11 and ending Corridor 10. So at first, I said that in 2019 it would be the key and perhaps most important year for the development of our travel infrastructure in the last 70 years. For your information, our highways, i.e. on our highways, have more and more cars. In 2018 you have 45% more cars than in 2014, in 2018 you had 53,700 cars that passed our highways, in 2014 that number was only 37,000. So, with the end of both the southern arms and the eastern arms, expect an even number of passenger and freight cars. So we become and we return to the place that belongs to us, which is that we are the most important travel artery in this part of Europe. Of course, these investments wouldn't be possible without the end of the financial consolidation of our finances, our public finances. In 2014, as you know, we went into major reforms and what President Vukic started on financial consolidation, the measure of excessive financial consolidation. The adoption of the new Labour Act now has effects, and when we see the third year in a row we have a surplus in the budget, when last year we had 4.3% of our GDP growth, when our unemployment rate is dropping, when our public debt rate is falling, too. All this is good news that gives us the right and gives us the opportunity to never invest more money than today in the maintenance of roads and in the construction of new highways, which is in itself an incentive and signal for further strengthening our economy with new roads, new railways, new investors are coming. For your information, in the first five months of this year we have 17% more foreign direct investment than in the first months of last year, and last year, 3.5 billion euros of foreign direct investment. We are absolute champions on this issue throughout the region. The biggest confirmation of the success of our financial consolidation came last week on the London Stock Exchange when the state first broadcast new bonds after 2013. A billion bonds, a billion euros in bonds we used to pay back old debts, expensive debts, expensive loans left by the previous government in 2012, 2013. We are of all investors, and there were over 320 who wanted to invest in our securities of value, got the lowest possible interest rate, the historic low interest rate on our debt, 1.6%. If you compare it with the price of capital from 2011, 2013, when it was 7.25%, you see that the economic and financial situation in our country has improved in the way in which the international financial market, which is the biggest critic and reform, these people and these funds invest their money, and we, instead of interest rates, which we paid in 2011, 2012, 2012 and 2013, is 7.25%, now at the interest rate and yield of 1.6%. For Serbian citizens, it's like you owe 100 dinars, so you have the interest you pay 7.25 dinars to date, and from today only 1.6. We've only saved 3.8 billion dinars on that, only on the difference in interest, the expensive interest we've paid on old loans and these interest rates that are historically low. It is particularly important and related to today's debate and the new investment programme, which President Vukic announced, exactly as we achieved last week on the London Stock Exchange, the fact that Serbia was removed from the so-called ". "gray lists", which gives us the opportunity to continue to attract foreign direct investment in an even greater number. We are now thinking about how our economy should continue to grow and an integral part of it in that national programme, other than investment in that base infrastructure, so in the sewer and water treatment network, in the water treatment plants, in the railway infrastructure is just investing in road infrastructure. So, investment in road maintenance, but also paved and finished and local, and regional, and highways, which is about the law that is here today before you. This investment cycle needs complete, not fully, but it should allow us to realize the rates growing below 5% on an annual basis. We are now, last year we had 4.3, and this year we're going to be about three comas six, seven or eight, but next year with this new investment cycle we want to be an even faster growing economy, and the faster growing economy on the other hand has more revenue in the budget, there's also a greater possibility for bigger pensions, for bigger salaries in the public sector, and that's that investment cycle that we started and that we should continue with this law. I hope you will vote for amendments to this law, and I am at your disposal to answer any questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56382	I thank the ministers. Do the officials of the committees want a word? The word has the People's MP Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56383	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, at the Finance Committee, we supported the Ministry's proposal to increase the toll price by km, precisely because one investment cycle, and based on the report of the Ministry of Construction and Transport, gave one full report on how much it was invested through road infrastructure and how much Serbia really changed its appearance by completing many projects that they did not even start by 2012. And what can be seen is that a large number of tourists who pass Serbia and Serbia each year can today say that this is much, much better than before, and this increase in the price of 12% is a minimal increase in the general price of toll, as you take, for example, the price of toll in the surrounding countries, and even some of the EU countries that we are used to travel to, say, we have opportunities to see what quality we are talking about travel infrastructure, and how much is the price to pay. So we had the opportunity on the Committee to discuss everything, to hear the representatives of the Ministry of Construction, to simply present their report and if our Committee is not in charge of this topic, but the formal legal proposal and the Ministry of Finance, which it simply gave on the basis of a report from the Ministry of Construction, and we supported such a proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56384	Thank you, colleague Tomic. Here you go, colleague Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56385	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have heard here the reasoning of the Serbian Government, which was presented by the finance minister, but the finance minister essentially referred to this item of the agenda, which is the amount of public goods benefit or in order to simply say the amount of toll that will be paid in the future on the roads of Serbia. He paid more attention to this progress and this breakdown in 2019, and that's good. Having optimism and how important it is in Serbia, which for years, has been exhausted economically, politically, however you like. But, Minister, you owe it to the public for the truth, to say that this is a Eurobond broadcast that is Serbia's new responsibility. Serbia has sold bonds that are billable for 10 or 20 years, but that is a billion in debt to Serbia. Serbia must pay the dividends to the buyers of these bonds, after a certain deadline, and that money they invested, plus profits. Interest is not the result of your wise policy or economic knowledge, interest is the result of the world market situation. When it comes to interest, it is evident that there has been an earlier drop in interest on funds sold on the stock market or deposited in certain banks, and that is a trend. What you're saying is that in 2014 it was interest 7.4, Serbia couldn't affect those interest rates, the international interest rate was so in 2014. It's a fact and you don't have to run from it. There's one part where Serbia wasn't very creditworthy, where the IMF didn't really have a positive opinion, but since the IMF took full control of all financial flows in Serbia. Serbia is alleged to be more creditworthy, with Serbia's 15 billion total debt in 2014, Serbia coming to 24 billion debt in the meantime. Also, the truth works, that debt is something smaller. It is reduced not by something, but now it is 23 billion and several, because Serbia has begun to service those debts. The logic that you serve and which you impose on the public is that Serbia is now taking cheap loans to return those who are more expensive. That logic would clearly point to the fact that by as much as Serbia takes cheap loans, it reduces the total debt, but there is no such proportion, there is no such proportion that we can see, let's say – here we now have a billion, so it's not 23 anymore, it's 22 billion. It's a simple math store. Operation. That's mathematically possible. Only so, when it comes to the general situation and when it comes to the success of selling, or broadcasting these Eurobonds. That is the truth to be told to the public, that the total debt has increased in some way by a billion euros. As for this compensation for the use of public goods, what affects the amount of compensation for the use of roads and highways, this is a clearly prescribed category of vehicles and characteristics of shares of public roads. Now, when we see what's changed, the vehicle category remains divided into five categories, first, first A, second, third and fourth categories. With the first category being passenger vehicles, the first A category is motorcycles and engines, second, third and fourth categories are vans of vehicles, vehicles with two or more axles, depending on the load. These are the meanings of the criteria which have been established from earlier and therefore been calculated. When it comes to quality, i.e. the characteristic of public roads, the truth works, except for these new shares of highways on Corridor 10, including Corridor 11, nothing significant has changed to the quality of shares, not even for the better, but for the worse. When you enter Serbia from Batrovci, you can sleep and you know exactly that you have entered Serbia. Whatever side you are entering Serbia, you should not be said to have entered the roads of Serbia, to feel that, as on the tracks, as on the thresholds of running and wanting, you do not have to admit that the entry into Serbia must still be awake and conscious. There's a funny situation where we're witnesses when strangers first enter the vehicle get out of the stop lane to see if their vehicle's right. There's so much vibration that people just can't believe it. Every day we hear from the Ministry of RES, to the soul, you're not the Ministry of Finance for it, but there's the Department of Construction who's responsible, every day we hear about how the roads will be fixed, as soon as this thing from Batrovac is done. Justification is always the same or the same. Now the Lord God is obviously the most guilty because these rainfalls are because they are showers, and the Batrovites, among other things, can also confirm fellow Martinovic, this is a problem that dates back years. It didn't occur to anyone to fix that section of the highway. Now this stock is closed to Shid, and we'll see when it's over. It usually begins when the season is full, when transit tourism is in full swing, then it starts, the whole traffic is transferred to one lane, etc. So the overall picture of it being, of the effort, of the ministry going around the world for the start of Europe, because foreigners see that it's a good part of driving on one lane of highways. Let's not forget, you charge tolls like you're using that highway at full capacity. So, as far as the quality of the stock of the road is concerned, there's no shift made in a positive sense, let's say, people driving one lane, it's not even a small distance, it's not a small mileage, to say - due to the inadequacy we've introduced some 10 or 5% benefits. No, now it's going to increase the price of toll, or public goods. Where did this idea come from? This idea, a reminder works, comes from a few months ago when the director of the Travel of Serbia, Drobnjak, is the one who serves the president of Serbia when there is not enough text or when he doesn't know what to do, then asks Drobnjak how much he drank brandy. It's purely descriptive, nothing to essentially engage, because that's how it's nice. When a man says, since this morning I'm only two or three, it's more likable than the former minister said - don't steal, steal a little. Imagine how our road infrastructure is, how our leadership is, when before breakfast, let's say he drinks two or three brandy. But I'm just passing on what's my impression when that person is near the president of the state. I don't mind the president, it takes such a nice way to warn him that he is not allowed to use alcohol during working hours. That's sweet, I find it very nice the way he does it in a charming way, the way the president does it. But let's put that aside. Let us just remember that at the first request made by the director of "The Way of Serbia" in question, the ministry headed by the minister reacted by saying -- there is no idea that it was discussed at the ministry, that it would increase prices or change prices should be first at the ministry. What the travel director said, it's his private business. Shortly thereafter, this same director says – I do not communicate in this way with the resolution minister, I speak directly to the president of the state. When a man thinks a little bit and asks, are these the normal conditions in which we operate? The travel director, who is a subordinated minister, cannot communicate with the minister or the ministry, but he uses those eyelashes used by the president to show his authority, which is higher than the ministry, says – the request of 12% will be forwarded to the president of the state. Not according to the Constitution, not by law, not by any rule the president of the state has anything to do with it. It is in the sense that it is at the head of the party that is most responsible for everything that is happening in Serbia. Using that political function and role, it can in some way act suggestively on the government. But, look at the wonders, all of a sudden, what the travel director was saying turns into something that we're discussing right now, and we're discussing increasing the toll to 12%. Now we see this psychological moment, which is very important. In the middle of the tourist season, it is announced to the public European that Serbia is raising toll prices. Not saying, without looking at absolute value, the absolute amount that it amounts to, everyone will normally think abroad – well, let me look for an alternative path. What I'd go where it's collected, especially that west, you know they take a lot of care of every cent, not the euro, how much they spend on flying. It's this psychological moment that's important, but it's not that significant, it's what's important in the structure of this traffic, the frequency that's happening on our roads, and it's a big percentage of domestic traffic, domestic vehicles. Now, when we compare the level of the 12% collection with those of Europe where the same methodology is used to calculate the amount of toll or use of public goods, which in any case is more adequate legally considered, more adequate use of public goods, then we will come up with data to continue in Serbia, regardless of these 12% still the cheapest toll when looking at the number of kilometers crossed and the category of vehicles. This is what you have countries where the same toll collection methodology is used, that is in France, Greece, Great Britain, Ireland, Spain, Croatia, Portugal, BiH, Macedonia, Norway, Turkey and Belarus. There are countries that use vignette, it's time they can use highways in that country unlimitedly, but only time-limited, unlimited mileage. Now, when we look at it, with this increase in Serbia, converted into euro, because everyone does it in the Serbian government, why do we Serbian radicals not to give the public a picture of how much it is when it is converted into that currency that is not the official currency that we serve in Serbia, but let's also use it. In Serbia, it is for the first category, for passenger vehicles that are the highest percentage, with 3,6364 dinars with 12% of purchases, that is 4,0728 dinars per km, per vehicle. That's about to turn out, when calculated, that's 0.034 euros. When we look at and compare with countries that apply the same methodology, then let's say it's compared to Turkey where it's 0.039 cheaper for some 0.005 euros. Compared to Greece, that's 0.045. Now, not to read with, say, Italy, that's 0.05, cheaper 0.03 than 0.05. Spain is also far above Serbia when it is calculated, when France is compared. Well, what element wasn't taken here? It's purchasing power, it's standard. Of all these countries that use the same methodology, only BiH is by standard, by average receiving below Serbia according to new data. Macedonia, but Macedonia, it is generally known now to be Northern Macedonia, so not because of the change, but because the standard is much lower, so that we do not count. Where's your element? Why didn't you look at the average income in these countries, and then see how much that's compared to the average income, what it's cost for road users in these countries. It's a real criterion, it's a real parameter. Secondly, by showing you this first category of passenger vehicles, gentlemen and how it reflects the total cost of living for us living in Serbia. But when you look at these vehicles with a higher load, they're vehicles that are used to transport larger quantities of goods, and that's how it reflects, not so significantly, but it's part of it that it collects goods, the final price, it affects the final price and the goods that they carry. It's all tied up. Now, in order not to be a story for the sake of the story, so that now we Serbian radicals, as some try to honor us, we are against this, let's tell you, the public to know that this is not the only source from which the maintenance, construction of roads are financed, or from which one part of the credit is being serviced, which is being taken on behalf of road construction. There are sources, clearly defined by law, which have been published in the Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia since 1 January 2019, from which they are financed, but exclusively built, maintenance of roads and loans, the return of loans taken for these purposes. In exceptional situations from these sources, up to 10% are financed by local roads, in exceptional situations. These are the following sources, i.e. road charges that are charged and charged at the price of an oil derivative, and charges charged on vehicles that use motor power, gas and other energy, and then annual compensation for road vehicles, then compensation for emergency transport, then compensation for the installation of an inscription in the land zone around the highways, and 13 charges are paid by any user or buyer of oil, oil derivatives or gas user on behalf of the maintenance of roads and the improvement of the travel industry. When you look at it in Serbia's budget, it's also how important the funds are. Here, the ministry points to how much an increase in budget revenue would be achieved by the end of the year, if it increased, if prices increased by 12% and casts out the final information that it is 1.9 billion, which is not to be doubted, it comes to simple mathematics. But he says, at the level of a year, in the next year it would be 27 billion. Look, gentlemen, how does that simply count when it comes to tax hikes, in this case toll. There's enough people, it's nothing for one per capita, we're going to increase the budget. Wait, gentlemen, why didn't you remember to save on the construction of existing highways, say, on Corridor 10, in the Gredile ravine you mentioned so much? The ravine ravine was designed by a project of our design house called the CIP. There are engineers who have great experience, there are constructors, different structures engineers. To perfection they calculated everything, even the possibility of a slide and what materials should be installed. What happened? He was saving a contractor on the material, so he could have increased benefits. Who's the performer? Foreign companies. The other day we're here fighting a verbal struggle with a resolution minister that domestic firms need as much participation as possible. Foreign firms on the Grill were working, starting a rink. Who hired? The company is engaged, imagine, “Integral” from Banja Luka. The pre-calculated value of the works was 50 million for the Gredile ravine, here's the minister, let's say if not, the final cost is over 83 billion. Thirty-three billion were additionally given "Integral" from Banja Luka. Imagine the reference "Integral" from Banja Luka, he did part of the road from Gradiška to Banja Luka. Well, isn't that a little bit to think about, isn't that what we should be worried about? Couldn't some other companies have done it, and couldn't whoever did it, in such a way that it was bad material, bad quality, couldn't he have been punished for him to take it out of his pocket to pay for it? No, we have a promise, we have a promise in public, made in front of TV cameras, that the minister of resistance will hang over the performers' heads to finish the east leg, and what's with this leg, what's up with the Gredil Cliss, what about the fusher that works on the highway, nobody cares about it. This wouldn't be so interesting, perhaps for the public, that the "Integral" doesn't stand behind it, we could see it on the tunnel, one pano transparent – on the one hand the pictures of Milorad Dodik, and on the other, Alexander Vukic. Milorad Dodik, we Serbian radicals politically support, as long as he represents the views of Republika Srpska's defence, but what is the logic that the "integral" company, a contractor, puts such a transparency? There's got to be, except for some blood connection, there's got to be some kind of financial suspicion. The suspicion is justified.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56386	Thank you, colleague Mircic. We've got a call for the replica, and the minister's in touch. They're both heads of state. What's weird about being pictures now? Here, the word is Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56387	I don't know why some colleagues here are excited that two presidents, one Serbian citizen, and one Serb, their paintings are together. I really don't get it. Although I can't even figure out from the discussion that a colleague doesn't know that, let's say, these funds are funded and cleared of the road in the winter period, so he mentions countries where there's no snow at all or very little, and he'll always, I've never been able to catch whether he's talking about billions or millions. So I haven't been able to figure that out at all, whether it's about dinars or euros and constantly mentioning some zeros, and not to mention that the price of capital on the market determines the reference interest rate of the currency in which it's traded. As far as I know, the same or small movements between Euribor 2013, 2014 and today. Serbia received cheaper loans only because it has a better credit rating and it is not an increase in public debt, but a payment of loans that were very expensive for Serbia. So if someone 5% per year is a small difference, to explain to him, a billion euros is 50m euros, in 10 years it's 500m euros less, or to translate into GDP, almost 2% of GDP, but they don't know that, they still have to learn.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56388	Thank you, colleague Arsic. The right to replica has Milorad Mircic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56389	As for excitement, dear colleague Arsic, it's a general place, a category that is not grateful to be said that way, but I'm telling you here in public. If I ever decided to cheat on a woman in my life, then you'd be the one to cheat on a woman, about excitement. As far as math goes, Mr. Arsic, not to me, I had six maths in college, finalized in mathematical modeling. We can talk about the economy, we can respect your opinion, but that opinion is not based on the truth, in fact. What you're saying, it can't really happen. We would like it so, if we were to understand ourselves, there is no man in Serbia who would not want Serbia to be so creditworthy, that it is treated so, that it has so much rating, but remember, they have experience from earlier periods, and other countries have experience, whoever the International Monetary Fund, whom the hand of foreigners caress, is not well written. That scares us. Don't explain how it counts in billions, how it counts in millions, and who's talking about zeroes here. That's completely irrelevant now. If you think we're going to waste our time arguing with you, no, we want to hear from the minister. As for the firm in Banja Luka, Mr. Arsic, we left the preschool facility a long time ago, we all know, we know very well, and the public knows why those two pictures are there. Because he integrated Godfather, friendly, relatively related to Dodik. That is why it stands, not because Serbia is grateful, of course, respects Dodik and all those who are fighting for Serbian national interests, and here is the economic interest in the first plan. Don't mix those two things up.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56390	Thank you, colleague Mircic. The right to replica has Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56391	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, and here in 2014 some of them said that some things could not happen in the Republic of Serbia, so they happened. It happened, in the area of the economy, but not as it is presented, but by, for example, opening today another airport in the Republic of Serbia, it is opened by the President of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic. And his work is criticised by those who can't open anything, not once, no corridor, nothing, no factory. It's always the easiest to criticize. It's always the easiest thing to try to make a suspect that someone is dishonest and someone stole something, and the results, it doesn't matter. It doesn't matter that the Republic of Serbia has 400km more highways than it had in 2012. It doesn't matter that we have a better quality of roads and it doesn't matter what with every mile of reconstructed and arranged road to preserve maybe someone's life, because lives are much more valuable than money. But they don't know it, it's important that they create doubt, if possible, that no one in Serbia does anything, that no one does anything, that perhaps, there is a political opportunity to produce some result in the elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56392	Thank you, colleague Arsic. The right to replica has Milorad Mircic. Here you go, colleague Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56393	As far as I could understand, the airport was open. It was opened by the president of Serbia. Everything else is the obligation of Mr. Arsic to every government at the head of Serbia. The construction of roads is an obligation of authority, so the people and the price, among other things, is one factor that affects whether the people will give trust or not. It's a good thing the airport's open. It's a good thing there's a lot opening up in Serbia. How will it be maintained? If it's going to be economically profitable, let's leave time. What you're talking about and using an argument to protect life. So what's more natural and normal than the government chosen by the people takes care of that people. We're talking real parameters here, real life. Buying, paying power in Serbia is shrinking. You need to take care of yourself. Carefully increase prices. Drobnik, the director of Serbia's Roads, cannot explicitly say 12% to cover all losses and that are on Corridor 10 and over here. As for the rating, Mr. Arsic, your credit skills have been given to you from the European Community for Corridor 10. And don't worry, they'll give you every time it comes to the interest of Europe. The interest of Europe is to end Corridor 10. But you can see how they treat Corridor 11, where it is Serbia's national interest to connect with Montenegro. They're not very generous. They're not that sweet. They don't say Serbia is creditworthy, so they'll give credit. They're not exactly like that. The Chinese, Chinese companies, Chinese companies, Chinese banks are giving it away because they started it in Montenegro because they see their economic interest. After all, a friendly relationship is at stake. Do not deceive the public, in some way, by claiming that it is only a credit to you and your authorities right now because it is Corridor 10, because Europe wants to have a relationship with both Greece and Turkey. Otherwise, when you take the parameters, it's not so cost-effective for you when it comes to traffic frequencies. A much higher traffic frequency, let's say on Corridor 11. A much higher frequency of traffic is on this part of the highway, i.e. the road you work for Ruma, Sabac, Loznica and Republika Srpska. There are 11 to 15 thousand daily vehicles circulating on that section, and here, when it's full of seasons that last from two to three months, there's a maximum of between seven and eight thousand. Don't do that, they don't have a receipt, they have a strategic-political interest and nothing else. Economical to connect to the east, and we're on that transfer.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56394	Thank you, colleague Mircic. The right to replica has Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56395	Dear ladies and gentlemen, it is primarily in the interest of the Republic of Serbia to end Corridor 10, not in the interest of the EU. Those who are against Corridor 10, I must say, are against the fact that the people of Vranja have a highway to their capital of Belgrade and are connected to the rest of Europe. We are fighting for both Vranje and Leskovac and Nis and Presevo, for God's sake we are fighting for Cačak and Užice, for the King, for all to be connected to the throne and the state borders. That's what we do, and the rest is demagogy. The financial effect, now in the discussion, was that a billion and 900 million dinars should be more revenue to maintain roads to recalculate and write nicely in the bill, totaling 27 billion revenue by the end of the year. A colleague twists his words and says next year it'll be 27 billion more. So much for numbers, so much for numbers and six kinds of math.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56396	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. The word has the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56397	Math is one Mr. Arsic, only different areas, one is mathematics, one is unique. You have the numerical methods used to study the approximate error, the colleague and colleague Orlic know best. There's one math in different areas, but look, Mr. Arsic, we're talking here that could have been a lot different here. Here you could go with a maximum increase in real costs. What are the real costs? In these new shares, no one would cause a problem that's open on Corridor 10. Who's causing a problem here? That's where it works on certain parts of the toll bill. No one is against it, funds have been invested, accounts are seen, primarily economic accounts to increase funds in a budget that is justified by the construction of that stock. Secondly, you can see the purchasing power of the population. You've got to take care of that, too. So here's why, Mr. Arsic, I have to have an educational effect on you, if you increase the toll on one side you know the legality, if you take from one piece and put this part on the other you'll be left poor. If you increase the toll on a master's road called the driver's corridor with a higher load it will use alternative roads, Mr. Arsic. You already have an example of the shares from the entry from Hungary to Kelebia to Belgrade don't use as much as those driving freight trucks would say, they don't use so many highways anymore, they use alternative roads, and that road goes with these regional routes. It violates the structure of these roads, capitalizes huge resources, these roads are not so designed for such loads. You've got the best example, so they're all driving there through the Titans, the Perlez, the Panchevs, and they're going out to Kovin. You have to take care of it, there's the highest share of domestic traffic, if the expensive toll will use alternative roads, and what you get on the bridge will lose it on the keg. If I could explain it to you, I'd be happy to.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56398	Thank you, colleague Mircic. Right on line, Dr. Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56399	The meaning of the word "numeric methods" for an approximate error assessment. You don't need them here, ladies and gentlemen, not one of the math fields, although I had the truth a little bit more during my schooling, I guess in high school than anyone else at any level of study. What you want us to talk about now is the next thing if I understand correctly, to show that for Serbia it is not good that Corridor 10 was built. How it is now possible that it is not good for us now and how it is possible that they wanted it, that they longed to do so to all those who were at the head of the state, whatever the country was called back 70 years ago. Is it possible that none of them understood what they understood and what one of you now reads correctly across the street? It will not be so, it will be before it is completely clear our interest and why it is good for this country and its citizens to have completed a corridor like Corridor 10 and why it is good for us to be able to represent a good, quality bridge, what is considered the seat of Europe and what is considered a European south. It's important for those who come from both the north and the south, and most importantly, it's important for us here. As many others longed and were unable to do so, I guess the greater success and the greater satisfaction of Serbia, led by Aleksandar Vukic, is that he succeeded. Who can't understand that? Well, just someone who doesn't understand it on purpose, and then he has to answer himself first and foremost the next question, which is the difference between him and other political acquaintances like, say, the present Vukadinovic. So he's saying the same thing, our results in the economy are catastrophic, he's saying the same thing, he just seemed to tell me at a press conference, nothing about economic indicators. Having growth annually of 4.3%, and Serbia had it last year, it's no good. Make a corridor like Corridor 10 that didn't work out either, Joseph Broz Tito, and that's not good either. Bringing hundreds of new businesses to Serbia in just a few years, employ about 200,000 people and that is what he said was an economic disaster. Well, when you say those things, and you literally say the same thing that he does, you get down to the same level of political relevance in people who listen to all this. Is that right or is that a mistake? I don't need any numerical method, it's a big mistake like a house, if you don't believe me, ask him.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56400	Thank you. Right on the line, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56401	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this seems to be going into some useless business, because we're trying to explain something, but there's no way to accept an explanation that's rational and normal. So, the way is the way. It is mainly made from import components, and at least the most expensive and most represented are imports. The price of the road is about the same everywhere in Europe. The price of road maintenance is the same everywhere in Europe. If we want to have it, we cannot measure ourselves by the size of its purchasing power, although many of the countries mentioned have a much smaller standard of living than the Republic of Serbia and higher toll prices. One more thing. It's not true, and I can't agree with that, we had a debate here the other day with the Competition Protection Commission, that the standard of living in the Republic of Serbia is falling. The consumption of all goods is increasing, more cars are being bought, so who's driving those roads if it's worse? Some aliens? Who, someone else? They drive most of our people. Most of our people drive and they want to have their way. They want to have, not to worry when they get out on the road whether they break the half-axe, wheel or not. I'd understand a man who, if he were like that, really has some experience. It is not the way of Novi Sad – Belgrade the only time. We should also go to Žaguvica and Petrovec at Mlava and to Velika Gradišta and Golubac. It's my neighborhood where I come from, and I know what the roads were like before 2012, and I know what they're like now. Don't make me feel bad about someone I've driven more backwards than he's ever driven in advance.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56402	Thank you, colleague Arsic. The right to replica has Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56403	I must confess to your superhuman powers to drive backwards more than anyone in advance. That's an honor. Here, after Jarowski, the famous manager, I first heard that someone was working in person. You're the only one who's still driving backwards. It's not bad. It can be a tourist attraction. There's one rule in math, Mr. Arsic, while we're talking about it. This is translated into plain language – when the limit weighs zero, then stupidity has no limits. Mr. Arsic, we're here to discuss specific matters, to increase toll. We're talking about economic effects. We're reserved according to this 12% increase. It can be at the level of real costs, which are the costs that are in certain shares that are invested in maintaining roads and inflation that are real. It could be some sort of foundation, and here 12% announced "The Small One." You're not all thinking like that man, are you? Don't, people. It could be a conflict. It's a completely counterproduct. As for the views of the SRS, they are, gentlemen, unchanged, unchangeable. We don't care who thinks of other political parties. We have a clear attitude. You have to tell the truth in public. The public needs to be exposed to everything behind some economic move, both good and positive and possibly negative. No one's against construction. When did you hear from us Serbian radicals that we are against the construction of any corridor, any shares, any part of the settlement, or "Biograda on Water"? We've never had any respect for each other. It's supposed to be built. That's what we said in public, openly. You managed to consolidate the budget. You did it. If that's real, we'll really know when we get the final bill. We'll know that, and then we'll discuss it in detail. But don't let people go and celebrate some results that don't really exist. The question is how this percentage of the toll increase will reflect the use of the roads that are now finished. That's what this is about. People will take alternative routes, especially cargo vehicles. Then what are you going to do?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56404	Thanks, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56405	Let me finish. And as for the increase in the number of vehicles, it's about the exact data, you just didn't look at the structure of those vehicles. It is the cost of these vehicles up to three, four thousand euros maximum. We became a waste dump, a warehouse for old cars bought by people in Serbia because they do not have the means to secure a new vehicle or engage in credit adventures. That's the point.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56406	Thank you. Right on the line, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go, colleague Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56407	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, if stupidity hurt, I certainly wouldn't scream. But there are probably those who would scream. Now, look, the starting base for this is in 2009 when the euro was somewhere around 90 dinars. About 90 dinars. Today is 117, and the difference is about 27%, 28%. We're talking about 12%, and we don't want to mention inflation. We're just gonna blow up a part of the fact that doesn't work out for us. These are the discussions of an esteemed colleague. One more thing. When I say something, I always prepare well. I know that, for example, in the Republic of Serbia in 2019 about 14,000 new cars were purchased for the same period, which is an increase of almost 20% for the same period as 2018. Nothing more. So, they're not just breaking ups anymore. So, the poor people were poor by 2012, now they're harder to get new money, but they're coming and they're starting to live better. (The Faith of Radeta: How does she begin to live better?) Drive the Mouse! ) So, whatever you say, they're just one thing they won't accept, and that's that for all of us, the price of citizens in the election, they're the ones who decide and there'll be those choices in less than a year. (Miss Radeta: Make an argument for 12%.) ) I think that then the people will say their judgment, what is the power of SNS and Alexander Vukic, and what are those who have a grudge for everyone, a brake, a suspicion. Because, you know, if everyone was afraid and suspicious, they'd never do anything. Fears and suspicions are for cowards.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56408	Thank you, colleague Arsic. I can agree with you, I just want one comment to make, I would interrupt just for a few moments and give the word to a minister who's been waiting for half an hour, and this is some sort of collision of Titans, there's no simple, everyone's given their arguments, and I think we should give others the opportunity to say something. Thank you. The word is Minister Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56409	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, I'd like to draw your attention to a few things that I think are very important, and that kind of stem from the discussion we just heard earlier. First, news released today by the Office for Statistics of the Republic of Serbia, which says population consumption jumped 11% in the first five months of this year, compared to the first five months of last year. So, at constant prices 8.2%, at current prices 11%. So, the growth in consumption in our country, in the first five months, tells us that more money circulates through our economy and has it. On the other hand, for those who talk about price increases, on average in the last five or six years, the average inflation rate, and inflation by definition speaks of an increase in prices, or is equal to an increase in prices, is about 2%. So we're talking about this price hike, on average, that all prices in Serbia are increasing by 2%, which is a minimum or some lowest level across Europe. So these are the things that need to be considered. What is particularly important to me and I will end with it, whether it is ignorance or what, on Eurobond emissions, in no way, and I have to say that because of the citizens of Serbia, not one cent or one euro did not increase the public debt of the Republic of Serbia. He stayed on the same level. We replaced expensive money, expensive loans with cheaper loans, cheaper money, and we therefore saved money to pay on expensive interest or to pay if we only owed on the domestic market, and I think that's quite clear. So this is one example of responsible financial policy, too, where if you have a chance on the capital market, you should take that opportunity. Serbia returned after nine years to the market, has managed to show and confirm its performance. I wouldn't agree with that if money was cheap, so that's why we got better conditions. First, money has been cheap since 2008, so since 2009, after the big financial crisis, money is already cheap, even though it was cheap in 2009, 2010 and 2011, Serbia was then receiving an interest rate of 7.25%. Serbia is getting an interest rate of 1.6% today. There is a huge difference, five times the difference, not only because of the situation in the financial market, but only because of the state of public finances in our country. Once again to remind and perhaps learn some, you don't give money, and you don't invest in bonds because of the market situation today, someone gave you that money by believing that in the next 10 years you'll have the ability, credit, financial, to pay it off in time. So that money depends not on the current market, but on the potential of the one who should return the money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56410	Thank you, Dr. Mali. The right to comment, i.e. the replica, has Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56411	We're close to someone, conditionally speaking, arrangements to raise prices. The minister, unlike the previous ones, said essentially, an average inflation of 2%, it is a minimum to build and increase prices in all areas and confirm what we Serbian radicals want to talk about. The minister, of course, took the opportunity to show much brighter than he did. Mr. Minister, I just need to remind you that over the first five months of the purchase increase, the result is that in January you have a big world holiday called "Christmas", which you have in April of "The Easter". (Vladimir Orlic: So it was last year.) ) When you compare the increase in consumption, then it is relevant to compare it with previous times of disaster. Here's why. Because we spent four years explaining statistics by the DOS then, this is close to you, so they said everything is growing compared to 1999 and 2000, respectively, until they came to power, in 1999, international sanctions, the bombing of Serbia. They always showed a 110% increase in production compared to the previous period. As it could be produced under international sanctions, it later turned out that some who worked in these statistical institutions, ministers, served as simple forgeries, and subsequently found that the growth of production and GDP, unfortunately, was much higher at the time of sanctions, at the full end of sanctions, than did the rebirth of these pro-European dossing parties. But that's later. And this could be subject to background checks. Let it be, let it be and let it be that citizens have purchasing power, how do you want to show here, that these 12% can, too, just now you have to make out who's going to suffer, who's going to be responsible for the consequences to bear? You want to explain again? This explanation for Euro bonds isn't exactly professional to you, it's not like you're explaining. They will not take the money, but will take action in the Elektroprivred, will take the state's property, behind the euro bonds of Serbia, Spain, or any other state has the property of the state. It's simple.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56412	Thank you. Thank you, colleague Mircic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure of the Prophet of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56413	A member. 107. It's nice that you've played this one debate, I hope these replicas continue, because apparently there are people who have something to say, but you have to listen a little bit when MPs are talking to each other. We're not here to suffer any frustrations, arguments to listen to tomorrow we don't mind, to make our arguments, if you let us, too, we don't mind, but we won't take offensive expressions. You know, the fact that Milorad Mircic graduated from college in time, as a young boy, when God commanded, he didn't blame Arsic for just getting some degree in his 40s and a few years. And those frustrations we don't have to do here and we won't take it. It's offensive that someone like that, by treating their frustrations, says that stupidity hurts, he would scream, etc. Imagine now that I say every time I see Arsic, God, every disease hurts me. You'd say it's not right what I say. It's not good that you let it happen a moment ago, or that you didn't notice that Minister Mali said that he was here saying he could teach someone something. Don't do it, Minister. You don't teach us anything, you just act in harmony with your function, and that means answer the MPs' questions. We are, thank God taught, all of this you see here and those who are not here today, the entire SRS parliamentary group has been educated, or has been educated regularly at state colleges with good averages, some of them are finishing, there are no diplomas purchased, there are no suspicious diplomas, and please, this is now not about the minister, but about a fellow MP, and first of all, to distract you, so frustrations are being treated in some other institutions, this is the National Assembly where MPs exchange arguments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56414	Thank you. I don't think I've hurt the Rules of Procedure and you're aware that your colleagues have led one really good controversy and I've given more than seven, eight replicas and one and the other, but they've used both irony and metaphor, it's allowed, Parliamentism is, I don't see any reason to sanction it, of course, with all due respect... And Milorad Mircic, as well as the esteemed Vice-President of Parliament, Veroljub Arsic. I wouldn't want this to be a polygon for some kind of deal personally with him, it's not right, it's not collegiate and it's not correct. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (Miss Radeta: No.) ) The word is Veroljub Arsic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, colleague Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56415	Article 27 for 100... I can't really remember a member, bringing out facts and data from a private life. If you can't remember, then nothing. )
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56416	The 107th member advertised a violation of dignity.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56417	It's not at all controversial to me. (Miss Radeta: It's a dispute.) I'm going to talk about my life, and I'm the only one who has the right to do it here, and I think it's sick that someone calls me because I interrupted school for the reason I was mobile in 1991 and 1992. Why didn't you finish? What did you buy your degree for? That's what I'm talking about. So that's sick! I went to defend the Serbian people. When it was over, I had to start working because it was hyperinflation, while some were involved in politics and now they sigh here and tell me how they love Serbia and how they are smart and capable and so on, educated. I don't appreciate their schools, nor do I think of them, my knowledge is for me, theirs is for them. This knowledge is witnessed by discussions here, as far as anyone knows and as far as anyone knows, Mr. Chairman, as well as how much anyone loves his people and his country, where he was when he was, whether he slept on dry hot and talked about patriotism, or rolled in mud and trenches while defending that same people who are now praised. (The Faith of Radeta: What were you doing?) )
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56418	Thank you, colleague Arsic. I'd like to appeal to all my colleagues present if we don't open these topics of personal and private life. From this discussion, I couldn't see that Milorad Mircic offended any insults, nor spoke to Veroljub Arsic, so I don't know why you, a colleague of Radeta, got involved in this and insulted Veroljub Arsic, which he absolutely didn't deserve. Comrade Arsic, would you like the National Assembly to declare itself in the day of the vote? No, I don't. Thank you. It's not correct, it's my position now as an MP. [[The People's Messenger, the Prophet of Radeta, throws out of place, you can't hear.]] Thank you. Do the presidents, or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, still want a word? Who's applying? Are you applying for a word, Mr. Kovacevic? (Borisav Kovacevic: I do not, but please stop this. It's not parliamentaryism. As long as someone's talking, they're getting it. A colleague, Kovacevic, it's parliamentaryism. I can't really ban it. (Borisav Kovacevic: It is not parliamentaryism. ) Are any of the authorised representatives and presidents of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? The word is Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56419	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm sorry this discussion went this way, but it needs to be completely honest and open, first of all, towards the citizens of Serbia. There's no story here about it, not about something you can't see, thank God, the road is an infrastructure facility that can be seen and how you see every mile of that road and every tunnel on that road and every bridge on that road you see. In order to have those paths, we have to provide a way of funding. That's what we were now talking about, about Euro bonds, about us not being worth anything, that we don't know anything, and what hurts most is that they respect and value us, I'm not saying that they love us, away from that, but they respect both the prices and the results of those who are not from Serbia. Our results of praise and those who are not from Serbia, and some do so voluntarily, some are trying to create political crises, only because many of them are disturbing Serbia's progress. fellow MPs must know that not everyone is thrilled with the economic progress of the Republic of Serbia, that all political furniture, countries in the environment, and that the results that Serbia has and are trying to make are certain political crises to prevent potential investors or creditors from investing in the Republic of Serbia. The saddest thing is that here in the Serbian Parliament, to be heard by fellow MPs, I have to speak loudly, because some think that everything is a mockery, that everything someone says should be thrown out, ridiculed, mocked, should be defamed. You should respect me, colleagues, by throwing them away, by interrupting them in every way possible. So that's one way and one regrettable picture of political life in Serbia. If every result you achieve is reduced to it being like this and not like that, it's better this way and not in another way, and all these suggestions, if there really are them and if they're really honest, I can say that in life they're quite invaluable. It's one elemental ignorance of certain topics or rescheduling of the past. (The Belief of Radeta: ‘Recidents’, not ‘recedives’). Oh, my God, Arsic. A colleague of Marinkovic's, you know what? When someone in Serbia says...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56420	Excuse me, colleague Arsic, if you could just let me, really, let us let my colleague Arsic speak. It doesn't make sense... Who's defending you? You interrupted him. ) Yes, I broke up to stop living on fellow Arsic and on the whole parliament here. They don't do this to you, nor do they to you, counterpart Arsic. He listened to his colleague Mircic all the time. Please, at least for a minimum of some collegiation. Here you go, colleague Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56421	My colleague Marinkovic, I'm going to say, I'm going to make one fact. For example, there was a proposal here when the same thing was being discussed about highways the other day, one of my distinguished colleagues said why we're raising loans, taking euro bonds, determining public interests, let's let Serbian citizens buy bonds from the Republic of Serbia. That's what I'm saying. Theoretically possible. It's practically impossible. Milorad Mircic: No one said that. It's said in this room, don't bring the stenograms now. Why? Because people like that live in the past. They remember the times of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, remembering Joseph Broz's time. It's the greatest ideologist... - Your dad. )......................................................................................................... which issued these government bonds for the construction of the highway "Brothership-Unity". There. Or, when they start saying that the state needs to be a regulator on the energy market, and the state is a participant in the energy market, so some other regulatory body has to work, it can't be a state because otherwise, you know who they're driving out? The Russians from the oil industry of Serbia. It wouldn't even be the "Turkish Stream". We couldn’t even talk about the South Stream, but we need to know some matter, not live in the past. You don't live from the past, you don't live from demagogy. He's living off the score. (The Faith of Radeta: 12% of the toll collection. So, the results are living. If I say that our travel infrastructure in Serbia is the best it would not be true and it would not be true, but to say that it is the worst, it would also not be honest or true. The fact is that investment is needed in the reconstruction of existing roads and the construction of new roads. That's a fact, no one can argue. Now someone will say – whether it takes two, three, five or ten percent if it is known that from 1999 to 2012 it is not retail or dinar invested in the maintenance of roads, both regional and local. We talked here in the Assembly, if we want Serbia to make economic progress, if we want to improve the quality of life and the standards of citizens, we need to develop traffic infrastructure. Now, some would like it to last 50 years, and some would like to finish it in seven, eight or ten years. These are the relationships, because I guess they'd better be slowed down, put to sleep, they're better off when they don't have the money to print dinars, make inflation. That seems to be a better solution. Not according to us. According to us, we want Serbia to have its own credit rating, it has its own rating that shows not only what capital price Serbia owes abroad or on the domestic market, it is however, at that price if the price is low, it is guaranteed to other investors who want to start some production in Serbia, that Serbia is both a legal and economic safe country, but it is not worth saying. They'd like us to go back to the time of the farming cooperatives, who, perhaps, Kolhoza or so, at the time of social property, at the time of the working class. Maybe it was great back then, but today we live in the 21st century. In the 21st century we live and we should probably turn to some market values to secure the market in Serbia, regardless of whether it's a market in terms of consumption or a market in terms of investment, we need to have traffic infrastructure and roads. If we make them already, how are we going to keep them? You know, that's the biggest question. Every citizen of ours wants to be used in the first place in a safe way. I guess that's the first thing and that thing, that fact seems to me to be the most important thing in the second place and the quality of that trip. They're somehow connected to each other to the safety and quality of these roads. Well, are we going to bargain, like we're at the market, make roads for two or three years or 15 to 20 years? I'm not in 15 to 20 years, because many, knowing how our paths were, are going to get killed on the roads because we're bargaining for how long this is going to take, and I don't think human life has any value, that there's no money that can pay for it, there isn't, especially in traffic, where pretty lives are lost. No matter what, all the improvements and reductions, that's still a high rate. We want the freeway. I want to go, and probably most citizens, from one border to the other Republic of Serbia and drive everywhere on the highway, regardless of whether I'm going to Corridor 10, towards Bulgaria, or Northern Macedonia, or maybe I'll use Corridor 11, towards the border with Montenegro. To some colleagues it's more important form, it doesn't matter what you say, it doesn't matter what you say, it doesn't matter what dots, it doesn't matter where anyone puts it, that their story, which is essentially very hollow and empty, could survive. If we all know, at least I hope, some have said and shown that some things may not know, keeping roads isn't just cutting grass, pulling white or yellow lines along the way, maintaining roads and winter road maintenance, and I can say that our highway is one of the best-cleaned highways in this part of Europe and this region. It also requires funds. And when you collapse, when it happens, no one asks if it was two, three, five, or 12%, but says his life is in danger because the road isn't cleaned and he's in the vehicle wrapped on that road. But it doesn't matter, it's important that we talk about how we finished some math and we know that or this. Who cares if Pythagorean's theorem is known or not, whether it's known or not. Economic indicators are important. Can this affect the economic environment that the Republic of Serbia has? He can't. Will that affect international transport going through the Republic of Serbia? It won't affect, it won't affect. These are the things we should be looking at. Will more people use our paths if they are of more quality? It will. What if they're safer? It will. A large number, I know for sure, that pass through Serbia, a large number of citizens who are not from here, pass through Serbia, because, above all, it is a safe country. But let's be, as much as possible, a traffic safe country. We can't do that by counting on percentages all the time and afraid of someone stealing something. There's someone who does that. That's what the police do. That's what the D.A.'s office does. They're better off dealing with it than seeing traffic accidents, so we're reading in the paper about how, God forbid, a child of two, three, five, six, ten years has been killed, how a whole family has disappeared, because that's decided by 2%, 3%. For a man's life, 2-3% represents nothing. For the survival of political life, some 3% are often unattainable, even in a jump with a pole.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56422	Thank you. Is there anyone else that comes forward from the authorized representatives or the president of the parliamentary groups? Since no one's answering, we're moving on to the word returns. We're going with the list. The first is MP Yahja Fehratovic. He's not there. The second is Professor Miladin Ševarlic. He's not there either. The third is Marijan Risticevic. He's not there. Muamer Zukorlic, not present. Milija Miletic, not present. George Komlensky, not present. The word is Alexandra Belacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56423	Today we are discussing something that the SRS absolutely does not support, which is an increase in toll. The draft law amending the Law on compensation for the use of public goods provides for an increase in tolls of 12%. No matter what the Serbian radicals tell me and whatever arguments they make, you will adopt this increase. We believe that the increase in toll is not justified for many reasons. The first reason is economic nature and refers to our citizens' ability to pay. At the end of May, President Vukic and IMF representatives, led by Mission Chief Jan Case Martin, had a meeting after which it was estimated that stable economic growth would allow for an increase in wages and pensions. So the IMF confirmed a 3.5% growth projection for this year and 4% for next year. It is not the first time that wages and pensions are increased in a small amount, but the problem is that gatherings like this eat up those increases that citizens, unfortunately, absolutely do not feel. Statistics say the average gross earnings in April of this year amounted to 75,441 dinar, while the average income without taxes and contributions was 54,645 dinar. It is also known that the average includes a number of directors of public enterprises and political officials who receive extremely large salaries. So when they are left out, it is clear that ordinary citizens are not even available to those 54 thousand dinars, how much is the average. In other words, citizens live extremely badly, and for them it is indeed a problem to endure any additional force, including an increase in toll. When we compare the situation in Serbia with the situation in countries in the region, it is clear that the price of toll is much higher than in the region. In the surrounding countries, tolls are charged according to the vignette system, and prices are as follows: in Austria, it is possible to buy a vignette that provides a passage on their roads in ten days for only nine euros, in Slovenia for 10 days it costs 15 euros, in Hungary 11 euros, in Romania only four euros, and all these countries offer additional discounts to regular users of their roads. In Serbia, unfortunately, only the route from Saturday to Northern Macedonia costs 14 euros. It's about 15 kilometers that can be crossed in a few hours. The question arises why does Serbia not introduce vignettes and instead of a charging system according to a mile [2 km] does not move to a time-limit collection system? Authorities said that the vignettes would not be enough for quality road maintenance and that in that case state subsidies would be necessary. Well, then why don't you move on to the state subsidy system? It is not the solution to place everyone on citizens and it is not normal for our citizens, who receive salaries far less than the European average, to pay tolls much more than EU citizens. If you increase the price of tolls, it will lead to the party deciding to opt for alternative routes, which is absurd, because instead of going our way through as many vehicles as possible and making as much money on the economy as possible, we will drive the foreigners away, and since we still want to make a profit from the toll, we will increase them by making the most of our citizens. It can be expected that after the increase in tolls and domestic highway drivers will cross the local roads that are already loaded, pass through populated areas, which will increase noise, pollution and traffic. When we record a significantly smaller number of walkways on our home roads, you will again complain that there is no money to maintain roads, then there is another increase and so on in a circle. It's not our citizens' fault that our highways are in the worst shape and we can't punish them for voting in favour of those who haven't taken care of the roads in the past years. Given that our highways are the worst, it would be logical for the toll in Serbia to be the lowest, while maintenance of roads is financed from other sources. You boast that you have a surplus in your budget for three years. Can any of these funds from the state budget be allocated to maintain roads and can concessions or loans be taken from your European friends? It is increasingly acceptable to transfer this to the burden of citizens, and first of all it is necessary to change the minister of construction, traffic and infrastructure Zorana Mihajlovic, who has repeatedly shown that she is unable to manage her own portfolio. I remind you that Zorana Mihajlovic without a tender concluded a contract with the US firm Bechtel for the construction of the Cačak highway – Pojate, where the price per km was 7.3 million dollars, and the total value of the job was $800 million, although there was an offer from China road and bridge corporation that was 300 million cheaper. It is clear that someone has installed in this business, especially when considering the practice in the region. It is known that Bechtel is a company that builds in new American colonies where it does business under suspicious circumstances, where diplomacy and politics are engaged on the American side, and on our part and other countries in the environment of local American spies. A similar case occurred in Zagreb where a contract was signed for the construction of the Zagreb – Split highway, where a case of corruption was discovered involving a number of politicians from the Croatian state summit, from Sanader, via Racan, to the Croatian minister of traffic and ambassadors to the United States who later served as consultant and lobbyist "Bechtel", so that Croatia eventually drove "Bechtel" away and cut off the job. Also in Kosovo, along with the intervention of the US ambassador there, a highway was built from Pristina to the Albanian border, where the cost of the highway per km was as much as 10.75m euros. This highway was difficult to build, but experts estimate that one kilometer of highway in Kosovo could have been built by fivem euros per km. It's called spending on U.S. colonies, and Zorana Mihajlovic has allowed our funds, therefore, to be poured over to the US firm and to be installed for one part of the 300m euros. That is why, of course, it should have been appropriate and long ago to be replaced, as well as the fact that we have lost road maintenance companies and that the maintenance of our roads is currently being done by foreigners whose services are far more expensive and for whose engagement it is necessary to allocate far more money. I'd like to remind you that this isn't the first increase in toll prices. We have already had a 10% increase in the beginning of 2017, and at the beginning of this year, exactly 4 January, Zorana Mihajlovic declares that there is no planned increase in toll in 2019 and announces, when new shares of Corridor 11 and Corridor 10 highways are opened this year, that the toll will not be charged at all for a time, and that they will then be charged at the same prices as in 2018. So this isn't just about to be respected, but we're now facing a new toll increase of even 12%. For us in the SRS, it would be acceptable to increase tolls of between two and three percent, what is the estimated inflation rate, and given that this 12% increase is now being introduced, the question is, who is not telling the truth here? Do government officials say inflation is between two and three percent or Zorana Mihajlovic? They are free of you, Mr. Minister, and free of everyone in the government and MPs from the ruling majority because you keep saying that Serbia is on the right track and that inflation in Serbia is reduced to a minimum, when the minister in your government explains with his own actions that the actual rate of inflation is 12%. We are, of course, fully aware that what we are talking about and these criticisms that we express think and many who sit in the ranks of the ruling regime, but unfortunately you cannot and cannot express your position, and as long as we sit in this Assembly, we will fight for Zorna Mihajlovic no longer to be in this position and that the tolls in any case will be reduced in favour of the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56424	Thank you. The word has an Ana Charapic. Here you go, colleague Charapic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56425	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers of Finance with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, at the very beginning of my presentation, I would like to point out that all the laws we have been discussing throughout the week concern exclusively economic growth and sustainable economic development. Today we are discussing development laws because we have members of the Government and the President of the Republic who managed to stabilise public finances in just seven years. Thanks to stable public finances resulting from difficult reforms, we are today implementing capital investment projects from real sources of funding. Why the real ones? Because we have GDP growth and budget surplus for the third year in a row. Just two days ago, we were all in a position to hear, but also to see on the map to Serbia, which was delivered by the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport, Infrastructure, that 445.9 kilometers of highway was built in Serbia from 2014 to 2018 and that 102.7 kilometers of highway was under construction. So a total of 548.6 kilometers. Please, which government has so far succeeded in modern Serbian history. The most roads are now built. More than 1965. It's all built despite everything we've had, despite all the problems. Let's just remember that in 2014, we had catastrophic natural disasters, floods that caused huge damage and economics, and agriculture, and citizens. The estimated damage was over one billion euros at the time. We've taken care of all of this and managed to give citizens a higher standard of living. In addition to the 2014 floods, we found an empty state register in 2012. I will remind the citizens and all those present that the country was literally on the verge of bankruptcy in 2012. However, nothing should surprise us from these streets of the Alliance for Serbia, whose only policy is to deceive the public through the media, which are run by Dragan Gilas and Dragan Solak. Their policy is closed factories. The policies of the Alliance for Serbia are unemployed people on the streets, 13% inflation, 70% public debt. Their policy is to realise programmes, Polish toilets in schools that we found in 2012, closed museums, self-proclaimed independence in Kosovo in 2008 etc. It would take me all day to list all the bad things they've done to us. Still, there's no time to waste for something the citizens said wasn't worth it, it wasn't right. Citizens of the Alliance for Serbia said they were past. What is reality, which is Serbia's future, which is the result of a responsible SNS policy, is certainly the GDP growth of 3.6% this year, and I will remind citizens that GDP growth in the previous year was 4.5%, which was the largest in Europe. Then we have a surplus in the budget for the third year in a row, hundreds of thousands of new jobs, hundreds of factories, etc. This is all the condition that today we are discussing a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on compensation for the use of public goods. So we managed to build 446 kilometers of highway without increasing the fees for using these same roads since 2009, because we didn't want to burden the citizens or the economy, because the previous regime robbed them. It is only now that we have provided citizens and businesses with a higher standard of living and modern infrastructure, but we have also provided transit through our country by about 20 million vehicles, only now have we decided to increase the fees for using the same roads. This is indeed the responsible policy of the executive government. Today, Serbia is being built and built, and in order to be done and built, it is quite justified that we citizens, as well as the economy, contribute to preserving public goods to keep our children fog from using them. It was really sad when nothing was going on between 2000 and 2012. Probably now these smart guys who don't come to the O.R., and they're getting paid instead of being present at the tide, they're holding some conferences around the National Assembly, and they're probably going to say at some of these conferences that we're raising the toll price, that it's not good, etc., and I want to ask them why they didn't comment on the School and increase the price of SBB cable operator services for 100 dinars last year? It's nothing. He'll try to imagine that it's scary when you raise the toll price by 60 or 70 dinars, and we pay back that money to citizens and businesses again, and when their Solak raises citizens' fees for an 8% cable operator service, saying it's for inflation, which is why inflation, so we never have a lower rate of inflation. She was 2.2% last year, she was the lowest in Europe, which is what we're talking about. Well, Serbian citizens should know that at an annual level of 800,000 users, this Solak totals over one billion dinars. Citizens and businessmen pay toll only if they use the highway, and SBB fees pay every month and watch TV or not. However, let them speak of what they will and no one listens to it, nor sees it, it is important to note that the Republic of Serbia has the lowest toll price per mile in Europe. In Serbia, the most roads and highways were built and restored than in any European country. Well, if we want to use our car, we have to maintain it and we have some expenses, so we have to maintain our house, too. Well, every company has regular maintenance costs. That's the kind of situation with public goods, and to make use of something, we have to pay for it. The increase in toll prices is quite economically justified because we have built more than any government so far, I repeat once again. Mr. Finance Minister and all the members of the government, only you continue to work responsibly and build, the citizens will be able to appreciate and reward you in the elections, and the SNS parliamentary group will continue to monitor and support your work. We will support all the laws that are on the agenda and all the other good laws that come to the Assembly for discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56426	Thank you, colleague Charapich. The word is Tomislav Ljubenović. Here you go, colleague Ljubenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56427	Thank you, Chairman. Today we are having a debate on the amendment of the law initiated by the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure, which we can rightly say is not proud of the ministry, nor the ministry-led minister, Zorana Mihajlovic. With this draft law amending the Law on compensation for the use of public goods, the said ministry and Minister Mihajlovic want to change the amount of special compensation for the use of the public road, its work and travel facility, i.e. Toll height. Of course, the change refers to an increase in the amount of toll by 12%, as such something could only be expected from a government that has completely alienated itself from the people. Mrs. Mihajlovic, she does not seem to know that the largest number of citizens of the Republic of Serbia are paid and pensions so small that it is impossible to survive. She obviously thinks that all Serbian citizens have as much as she does, so they can handle all the gatherings that come to this government's mind. It seems he does not know that bus stations and airports are daily blocked by a huge number of young people leaving Serbia because they cannot be employed here and live the life of a decent man. These young people leave with the intention of never returning to Serbia again. According to the BBC "New" in Serbian, that on October 17th 2018, there are 500,000 people in Serbia without funds for basic needs. The monthly limit of absolute poverty was 12,045.00 dinars, 268,000 people received special assistance, 35,000 users had a National Kitchen. The BBS source "New" in Serbian was deliberately taken, as Minister Mihajlovic only admits such sources. The minister doesn't seem to see the fall of a Serbian farmer because of the import lobby. There are few farmers who can be satisfied with the current situation. A lot of things Mrs. Mihajlovic doesn't see. In fact, she doesn't want to see, she doesn't care about the people of Serbia. She's interested in being a director or a V.D. JP's "Roads of Serbia" Director Zoran Drobnjak asked Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic to approve toll collection. And when he approved this rally, Minister Mihajlovic headed to the National Assembly to increase the amount of tolls. It is important for her to fulfill what the president says, so that she does not find herself in his unhappiness. Whether it is in the interests of Serbian citizens, she does not care, and should, because she is head of the resolution ministry. The public in Serbia could see a statement by Zoran Drobnjak, director or V.D. JP's "Roads of Serbia", which he asked the question on June 5th 2019 -- how did he convince the president of Serbia to approve the toll collection? Mr. Drobnjak said then – I told him that patching holes and maintaining roads is expensive and that if he wants the roads to be good, he must increase the price of tolls. The lives of Serbian citizens, therefore, are decided by the government although we do not know how all the gatherings will affect ordinary citizens in this country. Part of the government's governing structure is and already mentioned by Mr. Drobnjak, whom we don't know if he's the director, as he is represented or v.d. Director, according to the official website of JP "Serbian Roads". If Mrs. Mihajlovic knows the answer to this question, she can freely share with us and the general public Serbia, as well as the answer to the question – how many years did she spend in the status v.d. The director and is that normal? Otherwise, a rich biography of a man responsible for increasing tolls in Serbia can be seen among other things that a criminal application against him led the DRI due to a number of malversions and irregularities in the DRI report on "Serbia's Ways" in 2010. The irregularities observed are more than 40 allocated jobs, worth over 300m euros, and Zoran Drobnjak has been identified as the culprit. The report said he was in open procurement procedures instead of the tender commission eliminating offers with an explanation that they were invalid, and prior to the opening of bids, he changed members of the commission. The state auditor then wrote that the Roads did not pay 158 million dinars for tolls and compensation for using roads since 2008. His biography further states that he was sentenced to one year in July 2017 by a first-degree ruling before the Belgrade Special Court for abuse of his official position in issuing a permit to the company "Nuba Invest", and that he was then given a three-year ban on public work. It is about giving consent to build a optical cable to the company mentioned, and Drobnjak was suspected that by abuse of official office he damaged the state by 2.5 million dinars. In one period he found himself in a conflict of interest, at the same time being a shareholder of the Belgrade road company, which had long received the most profitable jobs from JP "The Ways of Serbia". It was later reported that these actions had entered the charity home for the carefree children of Zvecanska. Instead of having someone with such a rich biography, Serbia's president is moving away from the important function he has served and has approved to increase tolls, and Minister Mihajlovic has gone to the National Assembly with this bill to implement it. What a pity it is for all these facts, the citizens of Serbia will judge for themselves. It is also important to point out that in January 2017 toll increased by 10%. It is now certain that it will be increased by another 12%, instead of those who are misbehaved with state money being removed from the places where the state money has been destroyed, we have a situation that they remain in the same places and decide that citizens are constantly being pushed up. It's not a good practice, and it should finally stop, because everything has its limits, even citizens' endurance. If the proposed solutions are legal matter, the compensation for use, the regulation of public goods by law, in the area of legal certainty, economics, the development of economy, are not seen south of Serbia on a new highway, and that instead of road infrastructure it encourages the development of economy and a higher standard of citizens, in this case it is quite different. Leskovac is seven kilometers away from the highway. The request of the citizens of Predejan and the decisions of the Leskovec City Assembly were not accepted by the previous regime to loop the exit on the opposite side of the Predejana Motel, to continue to function and expand its capacities. In the interest of Leskovec citizens, we now have a reduction in business by 30% less. The aforementioned realization would create conditions for the promotion of the development of Black Treva, Vlassin Lake and the development of livestock farming with the already existing modern farm on Cemernik. The non-acceptance of the mentioned requirements now we have and we will have a hair problem in the Gredile ravine and Prelins. The impoverishment of the citizens of Leskovec and the eviction from the mentioned areas.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56428	Thank you, colleague Ljubenović. The right to replica has Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56429	A few things are mentioned ladies and gentlemen that we consider controversial. First of all, in this final statement, the claim that the government, as it is said, has alienated itself from the people. In addition to other things, of course, in the previous one, the fact that a surplus can be established three years in a row in the budget. Can this surplus be used in some good, and for citizens, I guess, useful way? Therefore, the appropriate answers to both questions or notes can be found in the country’s salary increases and pension increases. Is that right? How many times have we compared just the values we had for the average plan sometimes and today for the average pension, sometimes today? Is it a fact or is it not the fact that this surplus is used precisely to increase the average salary in Serbia wherever it can be affected? Of course, where the state is directly asked, but as a result, check that with the foreign investor's representative. The rise in the state sector is pulling, encouraging and increasing the private sector. When you have both in common effect, you have these 460 euros in average wages today, precisely because of this serious and responsible attitude of people who care about citizens. When I say -- I care about people, I mean, I really care about Alexander Vukic, I care about the Serbian government, which is elected by the SNS, so it cares about these citizens, and then it gives them smart treatment that there is an average of 460, if it's as much as the famous 340 Gilas, and we compare other things about that time and today, we can do it by tomorrow, and you know what, everything suits us. I think Mrs. Belacic mentioned some 12% of inflation at the annual level, I'm sure she didn't mean it when she said it was a situation in Serbia today. I'm sure she didn't mean it, but it should have served as some pretty metaphor. But aside from everyone knowing that today's size is 2% a year, the question, do you remember when it was really double-digit inflation? There was unfortunately double-digit inflation in this country at the annual level. Do you remember when? Let's start rewinding the film so we can see what that has to do with the concern for the citizens we're showing today, who haven't shown you some of which, as I see it, is very violent, you're reacting nicely and nicely. You don't have to defend them so much, there's no need. Anyway, remember, so tell us when it was double-digit inflation, and we'll see why it's important for the debate. I'm done with this note. When very groups are easily presented, and completely incorrect assessments, it has to do with what you mentioned in today's debate, when some convergence or some limit is reached, to tell you something, when in the border process the value of support is achieved in the elections that are very close to zero, then people allow themselves anything, even if they say completely irresponsible things.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56430	Thank you, Dr. Orlic. The right to replica has Tomislav Ljubenović. They have Toma Ljubenović and Mrs. Belacic, they have the right to replication. And Mircic has no authority? ) (Milorad Mircic: I am an authorised representative. ) Here you are, colleague Ljubenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56431	I wouldn't want to do anything special with a respected colleague for the reasons that the facts themselves speak in terms of, what he explained, and what is very often used by this explanation of what is the surplus and how much is the improvement of the standard of living, I would just like to make a point, what is the departure of young, educated people who leave Serbia every day? That's the answer to my predecessor's findings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56432	Thank you, colleague Ljubenović. The word is "Verica Radet, "injury of the Rules of Procedure."
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56433	The breach of the Rules of Procedure refers to the giving of replicas. I really can't understand what the base of his colleague's claim to a replica just now. Did Toma Ljubenovic mention him by name? It's not. Is it his party? It's not. Is it their Majesty? It's not. So you're something very nervous. That's the problem when you authorities have no arguments about what we're talking about and when you want to distract the public that you're talking about today that you're going to increase the toll by 12%, none of you have mentioned it yet, and then you're trying in this time, which is so good to watch, that each of them can report for replication. You, in fact, don't mind them, they'll be quick to make a list, so they can do whatever they want. Please, colleague Marinkovic, preserve your dignity first and then the dignity of the National Assembly. Don't let them order you, when I say they, I mean the MPs of the ruling majority. You are here with the authority of the President of the National Assembly and binds you and binds only this terrible Rules of Procedure, the worst in the world, but it is what it is, you must respect it. Then you still pretend you don't see how much time they're talking, so they can speak seven minutes, three minutes and two, yeah, no, just two minutes and 52 seconds ago, and when one of the MPs speaks, then the time is already in two minutes and zero seconds. I ask you to level the arches, not to expose yourself to anxiety, that in cold blood in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, you lead this session of the National Assembly and that we finally begin to communicate with the minister who came here to speak with the MPs. When I speak, I'll commend him for something we talked about a few months ago, but I can't get any expression, but the minister can't get any expression when you... But you're wrong, you know those things you've been courting so much won't affect that list you're thinking about, not my mother, I know.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56434	Thank you, colleague Radeta. I don't really know what list you're talking about, but when today's session of the National Assembly is at stake, I appreciate that political skill and everything is fine. But you know for a fact that I am tolerated towards everyone and that I absolutely try to respect the Rules of Procedure and all the procedures contained in it and give equal time and members of the majority and members of the opposition, and that Mr. Milorad Mircic is very well aware of both Ljubenović and everyone else. So, I don't think that's what you said. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? You don't. ) Well, thank you for your correctness. The right to replica has Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Who's she replicating to? Tomislav Ljubenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56435	Thank you very much. For those of you who don't follow the course of the session, yes, because of Mr. Ljubenović's note, I understood that actually the concern he showed was correct. There is nothing wrong with asking ourselves and we should ask ourselves together on the subject of young people and not just young people leaving Serbia on an annual basis. The real question, Mr. Ljubenovic, isn't that what's happening, it's been happening years ago, mostly at the time I was talking about when inflation at the annual level in this country was really two figures, but the real question is, what can we do to prevent it or reduce that phenomenon? People will always go where they think they're better. Here, you see in EU countries how big these changes are at an annual level and much scarier and more drastic than in Serbia, but we wonder what we can do to offer people more here, to be more motivated to stay in Serbia when they think about where is better or where is good enough. One of the things is exactly what I was saying about wages, so that we can really do everything we can, which is up to us, as a state, but if you want as a society, as each individual, that in Serbia a man can say – I can provide more for myself and my family on a monthly basis, and that, let's say, through that pay view. That is why we are deeply concerned that any good result, a result that is good and important to the citizens of Serbia, and that is adequately measured. When we say we have increased this average salary significantly, it is precisely because some young people think about it when they wonder what is waiting for them in Serbia tomorrow and why Serbia needs and is worth staying in. We spoke at this session, then when we talked about young scientists, we provided direct engagement for more than 1,150 young people capable of creatively creating a lot of security when it comes to research and practical work and applying to the economy. So these people were able to motivate them to stay in Serbia, which is a valuable result. Worthy, so 1,150 young people, that's a significant thing. How do we help them decide Serbia? By helping them solve their living issue properly. We've read and explained here how much money has been allocated right now, and how much better we'll be able to motivate them when we adopt a law that provides for a systemic approach to this need. I think that's important. So, your concern I understand in, I mean, the right way, that concern is common. Let's just be correct enough to say, when we make a good result that's right on the trail of that concern, which is a good answer to our people's needs, then to show a correct relationship, not to offend it immediately after that, but that's why inflation in Serbia is 12%, and everyone knows it's not.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56436	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56437	Last sentence, Mr. Chairman. That's why I'm saying it's important to be serious and responsible, because people who see this know the truth, which is why they value us and you. Well, then there's no approach that leads to support in elections near zero, when you talk seriously and responsibly. When you say everything different, as we've heard from some today, well, then that zero is also very big.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56438	Thank you, Dr. Orlic. The right to replica has Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56439	As an authorised representative, I must respond. No offense, we also heard from the minister that inflation, the official inflation is within 2-3% and that is one of the elements that enters the price hike of all generals, and especially these toll collection services, the SRS is talking about. However, we have the opposite fort held by the Ministry of Construction through the Ministry of Finance and Accounts, we assume that they have greater inflation than is officially 2-3%. Because what would be the parameters? The parameters are vehicle category and road stock quality. The category of vehicle is something that is constant, the quality of the road stock is improved, changed on these new shares that were built on Corridor 10. For this, it should be a basic element, among other things, inflation. What are you mad at if they're looking for 12%? Well, our guess is that inflation is significant. You must speak to the Minister of Construction, or Drobnjak. As for Mr. Orlic, you are offended that your colleague said that you have given birth, that the government has given birth to the people, you must address the president of your party. Alexander Vukic told all of you who are members of the General Board that he will no longer see the fence between him and the people because SNS officials are distanced from the people. He stated, not to speak any further, that he had reason not to look at those expensive purses, those suits that were organized. That's what you need to discuss within the party. We're just saying, paraphrasing what Vukic noticed, and he's well noticed, we've given birth to the people. You've put on those Blinkers, and he's told you, of course, not you personally, but those who represent power. You can't take the highway, believe me, from Novi Sad to Belgrade doesn't take a full minute to get some column with the blinkers. Only three people can use that. What do you need? What needs to be done to the officials amongst other things from your party, I'm not saying that it is generally SNS, but also from other parties. This is what Aleksandar Vukic well noted, noticed and gave you an order not to see the fence between him and the people again, as the officials between them and the people put it. That's just the point.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56440	Thank you, colleague Mircic. Right on line, Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56441	Always trying to be extremely well-intentioned, I always notice progress when there is. So, I'm glad you agree now that inflation isn't 12% as you said before, it's quite different. It's for all praise. So that's what we seem to understand each other about, and we agree. As we seem to understand, you were wrong to say that Corridor 10 is not good and is not useful for Serbia, or that it is not useful for someone else. A little bit after that, you stood up, and you said, "That's good, and now I'd say, "We get it pretty well." As for the desire to study well and remember the words of Alexander Vukic, it is also commendable, as well as the previous two adjustments you have made, it is a good thing. Those words should be heard well, drawn from them by proper instruction although you have now and slightly corrected yourself compared to the previous time, just before there were some, I would say, grudges generally and at the expense of Alexander Vukic and any of the SNS on the subject of the people's determination. It's like that story of 12% inflation a year, everyone knows it's not like that and even people laugh when they hear it, because they know that, say, Alexander Vukic with the people was with them both today and yesterday and the other day and in situations where the people are the hardest, for example in Borca, and a week or two before that when there were big problems for the people, it seems to me in the western and central parts of the state and whenever there's a need to talk to people he does it directly and if someone is with the people, so he is. So what you're correcting in that direction is I'd say right and right, and now what the people are going to say about all this and what the people think about it. He said a little bit of an hour, a colleague of Ljubenovic and was absolutely right, at the end of it, the people themselves define and say. I'm a people where they ask and define and say, he says that for Alexander Vukic and those people who really, I would say, follow his political vision quite honestly and participate in creating these good results for Serbia that we are talking about, it's either excellent support or excellent indicator of results. The other day at the level of the town of Sapca where these of you had along with these others you're working with today in Old Town two-digit inflation on an annual level, they got you know how much? Zero from that people. And out of 15 possible places, Alexander Vukic and the people who followed him in his political path, out of 15 possible were 15. When the people say in this way what they think, who is with him and who works for the people, and who is on the other side, I think that fellow Ljubenovic is right there, the people are the best to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56442	Thank you, Dr. Orlic. Right on the line, Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56443	The synonym for the people is mass. You can shape the mass whenever you're in power any way you want. One example is the power he exercised and represented Boris Tadic. He was beautiful, he was smart, he was respected, received at all high levels, bored, hurt Serbia, Serbia punished him, brought even worse, named Tomislav Nikolic. Don't rely on it much. What Alexander Vukic says, believe it is a matter of personal nature, whether someone will give that meaning or not, but he is the president of the state. He noted that Serbia's leadership, including both the government and other high-ranking officials, is being built on people's fences. He's a witness to it as president of the state. We have to attach meaning to that. What are you guys mad at? Tomislav Ljubenovic set an example for you, another one. For the connection and for the loop at Leskovec, where the representatives of your party in power refused to hear the application and wish of the citizens of Leskovec for the solution of the loop, when it comes to the highway accession. That's what Tomislav Ljubenović tells you. They didn't want those who fenced themselves against the people, who don't even care about the representatives of your political party. So what do they have to do with you? What does Zorana Mihajlovic have to do with SNS? There's nothing, there's nothing in common ideological, program nothing in common, Mr. Orlic. She entered the party thanks to protection by the US intelligence service. The woman provided Tomislav Nikolic with the opportunity to raise large loans to buy an apartment. That's a function recommendation. Alexander Vukic had to accept it by force. Well, she was at Dodik's. So Dodik couldn't wait to get rid of her. So here's a witness, Miroljub Labus, here's a witness to Boris Tadic for that. What does she have to do with it? So she disobeyed the suggestion of representatives and local self-government and citizens of Leskovec. Isn't that building from the people? What you're talking about inflation. We remember times when Dr Avramovic said that the parity of the dinar and the stamps is 1:1. It was clear to every normal person that it was more of an administrative measure. When he declared that single-digit inflation. How long did that last? Not long. Who paid. Finally paid the citizens, if hyper inflation started, which is the legality of the economy. It's all relative. You can statistically show whatever you want, but the real parameters affect the economy as they do in science. And the economy must respect them. Political manipulation doesn't defend anyone, but there must be bills for what's done. It is the essence of speech and of Ljubenovic and her best-intentioned colleague. Why are you so angry?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56444	Thank you, colleague Mircic. Right on the replica of Dr. Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56445	It's really hard to say that I'm angry when I praise you every time you show progress. Right? I'm glad when someone's making progress. I encourage people to learn and make time just better. On the subject of this relationship with the people and the fences. I don't know, I can't remember that anyone has ever put a bigger fence between the people and myself than the one you've set up for a moment. What did you say about the people that it was mass? (Milorad Mircic: The synonym for the people is mass. What's that look like? You know, because of such a relationship with the people, many have politically reached those heights, that it is zero, no longer a state of some value that weighs but their permanent stable state from which to move can't even move for Iot. So it's not good, it's not right. It's not a crowd of masses. That's the kind of misrepresentation that Tadic had, and that Labus, and other people. Of course, first of all, they are the most responsible for the difficult years, when there really was a double-digit inflation in this country, and that was not so long ago, and you now seem to be in a terrible desire to be a little richer or significantly richer than they are, and already they are too rich, right at the expense of that people, decided to do something about politics again. You're involved with such political co-operation today. Am I wrong? It has something to do with these things I'm talking about. You're saying we're never against building up, we're never against making progress, big projects being realized, and then being in a coalition at the level of a municipality with this Bastac, which is everything but synonym to support large projects, to support construction, etc. You have to decide what you are. You show progress on that as well. Congratulations, just like I congratulated you on the other advances you've shown during this debate today, or at any time. But inflation, yes, you're right. They always pay the citizens. They paid for it when Gilas and those others who are now the bosses of your Bastac. They paid for it every time. And if we want to turn things around in a positive direction, then we have to worry about building that infrastructure that hasn't been for years, about meeting those needs that they've been waiting for for for decades to meet, which Serbia today can, in a proper healthy way, finance, just as it has raised wages in a healthy way. And pensions in a healthy manner, without any risks and any of our descendants being owed additionally. Now that's the attitude towards the people, who showed and established as a standard of obligation for all of us, Alexander Vukic. And you know that's a relationship that will show every SNS political representative to wake him up in half a day, half a night. We will never call the people mass. No, I don't. These are our people, the people we love most in the world, with our Serbia. So, the people we deal with these things we do. It is our obligation to protect them from any self-inflicted or self-proclaimed elite who will call them mass or be a good associate to those who have been scratching their skins off their backs.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56446	Thank you, colleague Orlic. According to the Rules of Procedure of the Witch of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56447	Two things a member of 27 is at stake. Maybe it's a little hard for you as chairman to be able to track everything the MP says and correct it in time, but since I'm also vice president, you don't want me to sit up here, so I'm going to tell you from here. On April 19, 2019, almost, of course, they insisted on taking pictures of the walk again, why they set up a camera with the government. They're pouring in, taking pictures of 800, 900 people. Oh, did you see the mass of the plum stand out, Alexander Wolfich? Maybe a colleague of Orlic would never say "mass," but here's the Wolf said. As far as these attempts are concerned, and you should really take care in replicas to talk about what we're talking about here today. First of all, I am saying this because of Minister Cynthia Malloy who has no obvious need or will to listen to this kind of debate, especially on the part of these MPs who support the government, because no one has said a word about what they should be saying. We know for what reasons they speak this way. They were obviously reading columnary colleagues of Vladimir Djukanovic, pieces of two for now, and what they think about each other and whose message Vladimir Djukanovic conveys. We know exactly whose message he's transmissioning. They know, too. And now it's breaking, you know, it's like a flat ceiling, but it's not gonna help them. So please focus your discussion on that, and let them replicate, but let this go, let Bastac go, let Old Town go, let's talk about Požega. We Serbian radicals in Požega are in power with the advances. Complete advances went to prison, radicals all alive, healthy, clean and re-made with other people coalition yesterday.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56448	You're going to the Požega of fellow Radet. Now we're gonna get out of Old Town, no one's following the rules... I have to pay my toll, I have to go to Požega, God be with you, something must be earned under this law, what is wrong with you? ) There are expensive buses in Belgrade, too, in the Old Town. Dr. Orlic, Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Article 103. First of all, I didn't ask my colleague Radetta, do you want the National Assembly to come forward? No, I don't. )
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56449	Thank you. Article 103, I think it's more than appropriate for the situation we've had right now. It is, of course, that member who gives you the opportunity to deal with the so-called president. Management of the time to discuss parliamentary groups, because I think that's the essence of what Mrs Radeta just did. She can't answer her word, and she has a very scary and passionate desire to say something, and then she uses the Rules of Procedure to replicate to me, Minister, to you, God knows who. A member of 103 tells you, giving you the opportunity to react in this situation by helping them organize time for them in a useful way. Why useful? It's not just a question of what they wanted to boast about again, for example. commend the fact that they read columns written by members of the presidency from our party. It is commendable, just as it was commendable that they had just pointed out that they were closely following, reading, and finally learning to speak to Alexander Vukic. It's also good, but it's important for that, you remember for sure, Mr. Chairman, they responded here, noting that when someone is too wise or too professional, I don't know what they said exactly, as they said, it could hurt a man. Because this debate is of this quality, as it is today, you have heard, I would suggest that it is, I believe, the best possible way to allow people not to suffer that kind of pain because of too much wisdom and too much expertise by saying something, that you shorten that time for discussion in two or three minutes, as they were already saying earlier. I don't know, maybe it's been three full minutes, but to reduce them by so much trouble and trouble, I think it's both correct and collegiate. Anyway, it'll help people make extra progress. Among other things, the last sentence, Mr. Chairman, noting that I am not asking to make this clear, will help people when they have a little more time for other things to raise their own quality and on some other plan, for example by reading a bonton. That's not bad, is it? (Miss Radet: Martin, introduce order.) )
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56450	Thank you, Dr. Orlic. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in Vote Day? I have an obligation to ask that. I'm about to set a five-minute break. I ask all MPs, especially you, colleagues of Radeta, to refrain from such a throw. It's not right for my colleagues. (The Faith of Radeta: This is correct? This is nice? ) [[after breaks]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. The word is from the MP of the people Studenka Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56452	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected ministers, respected Serbian citizens, two days ago we discussed in parliament the travel infrastructure of Serbia that, after 70 years, connects Serbia with its neighbours and allows us to travel significantly faster and safer through Serbia. We're all aware of what all the corridors, all the highways and the accompanying infrastructure mean to us. They also influence the economy and attract investment and tourism. The precondition for the development of a country is more quality roads. Shorter relations reduce transport costs, which is why good travel connection is what interests businesses first. The maintenance of travel infrastructure, of course, costs, and intensive use of roads, as is now the case with us, because there are more factories, more vehicles, more travels, requires and more rehabilitation and rehabilitation, precisely because of the great burden. The fee for using public roads should cover maintenance costs, and this investment cycle should continue. I also use this opportunity to appeal to the government of the Republic of Serbia for future investment in road infrastructure to be in eastern Serbia. The East of Serbia is rapidly developing the economy of this region by the arrival of a strategic partner in RTB Bor, and it is important that the roads are in good condition. Let us not forget that the east of Serbia has a good tourist offer, and for the development of tourism roads, roads are necessary. This progress, in terms of investment in roads, is indeed realistic to expect that roads will also be invested in eastern Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56453	Thank you, colleague Kovacevic. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you are, colleague Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56454	The MPs yesterday are trying to reverse the game today. We say yesterday, for example, Zorana Mihajlovic took 300m euros from the Republic of Serbia's budget and gave Bechtel, and lawmakers jump and say -- you worked against building Corridors. No, we're just thinking about how much more could be done for 300 million. We say today the increase in toll by 12% is unacceptable, they say – you are against building Corridors. Well, don't people, let's talk about arguments and talk about what's here. You, Minister, at the beginning, also talked about the corridors of the current, future, past and so on, and it's all nice, of course, but I can't understand how you connected it to this agenda point, except I had the impression that you guys were building corridors on the line, so when you charge this toll, then you're going to pay for it. It's not exactly the kind of relationship that you've tried, just like the MPs in power to present, to say to the people what sounds nice so the people won't hear what they're reluctant to accept, and that's an increase in toll by 12%. You were also talking about financial consolidation. Well, wonderfully you've made that financial consolidation, let's remind ourselves, by cutting wages, by cutting pensions, by collecting energy, by collecting tolls. With this toll collection, and we've told you more than once, and this is what I want to publicly praise you, we've said that it's completely hard to talk about these topics, even about the rate of inflation, GDP and so on, until we have the final budget accounts and we said we haven't had them in the past 10 years and you told me yesterday that it's already been prepared and that we're going to have 10 reports on the final budget account already in September. If that's the case, then you've really fulfilled one part of what we asked of you. Well, you see, we're correct and we want to say when something good is done, but we're waiting for September to confirm. With this 12% increase in toll, you, ministers, in fact, have annulled both the fiscal and monetary policies of the Republic of Serbia compared to what the president of the state, the Prime Minister, said you ministers, remained your fellow ministers. Projected inflation is 2.8% this year. The latest statistics said inflation was 2.2%. We've been thinking, and we've been thinking, when we've been looking at your proposal to collect toll by 12%, we've been thinking about whether the amendment is going to not increase the toll at all, and then we said, come on, well, really, we're doing these corridors, we're doing roads, maybe it's not even realistic that the toll price is going up by that inflation at the last 2%, and that's the amendment we put in, and you're not going to say how you got to 12%. You know, you say and the explanation here is written that this way you'll fill the budget. Of course, it's the easiest way to fill the budget when people get their hands in the pocket, but it's not any knowledge or I don't know what kind of economic policy. It's the easiest, the state is a powerful force. Why don't you go over there by that billing ramp if you don't pay 12% more than it is now? You won't get through, you have to pay. Do you know what kind of vehicles are driving on our roads? A man who lives in Nis, if he's a month old, God forbid, in a hospital in Belgrade, while he goes south five times, he'll spend the whole South on tolls. You are not thinking at all about what the real situation in Serbia's life is. You say, for citizens, it's good news that corridors are being built, etc., but for citizens, it's bad news that tolls are increasing by 12%. For citizens, bad news is gas-gathering, electricity-gathering, fuel-gathering. On May 21st, imagine when it was, the Minister of Energy said - Elektroprivreda did not so far apply for an increase in electricity prices and said - more is said in the media than in your talks with the IMF. As early as May 21st 2019, he said - imagine, electricity hasn't accumulated since 2018. It's really such a long time. What do we have now? They say it's not what's going on, it's a tax, it's a fee to improve energy efficiency, so on behalf of that budget fee. They say it's not a collection, it's not an EPS, it's not a Serbian, it's a budget. It collects gas, collects electricity, collects fuel, and then we see in public explanations that this fee will be used to isolate buildings, etc. Now the question is, here, we ask you – whose buildings will be isolated from these pairs when they collect from the next gas, electricity and fuel bill? Will a man be able to come and say: knock, knock, good afternoon, give me money to repair the isolation of my house? How is that going to be spent? This is really amazing how you play and how you take money. Before I finish, I just have one more example to tell you. It's about the toll, and it's not about you, Minister, it's about your colleague Zoran, but something very interesting has appeared in several cases. I've had a chance these days, people showing me. They're going on a payment ramp, they click that button over there, they get that section, they come up on the next toll ramp to pay the toll and see, by chance, that it's not about their car at all. You know, it's very interesting what's going on here. That's the question someone should be answering. Imagine what happens to a car, God forbid, here's the one where Zoran Babic was, and there he shows on that toll ramp that it passed the car of another registration number, another car stamp. I don't know what you're doing here. Here's the problem now when Zoran Babic goes to Brione via Sopot, he has to go back to the loading dock, how can a man be like that...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56455	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56456	What a time, when we have... You listen to this and you take our time? I got ten and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56457	You don't have ten minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56458	Dear colleague, who did you ask to take away the time I used in the Rules of Procedure? Shame on you!
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56459	You've got 15 seconds left.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56460	Shame on you!
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56461	I was just warning you...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56462	You took five of us yesterday, three minutes today. I had ten and a half minutes to talk. You took five of us yesterday, three minutes today. I had ten and a half minutes to talk.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56463	Okay, you can have any bill you want...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56464	And the fact that you're trying to distract people from hearing that the toll is up 12%... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56465	Never mind, colleague Radet, with the toll. No one's stopping you from taking advantage of your time. I don't know why you're nervous. Why are you complaining? (Miss Radeta: Injury of the Rules of Procedure! You talk about everything, just don't talk about it. You mention Zoran Babic, all alive, who have nothing to do with this. (Miss Radeta: Injury of the Rules of Procedure! I don't know what's wrong with you today. You're really very unfair and rude to everyone. Here you go. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56466	Mr. Marinkovic, you really have a problem today. It bothers you when the People's Messengers argue. Have you noticed how many times you've violated article 107 and violated the dignity of the National Assembly? What were you supposed to tell you now how I'm treating everyone today? What am I like today with everyone? Like what? What did I say that wasn't true today? What did I say from this place that wasn't true, colleague Marinkovic? Explain how you could have taken away the SRS parliamentary group for exactly three minutes? The fact that Orlic told you that I didn't speak in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and she reported to the Rules of Procedure and he ordered you to take off our time for three minutes, it should indeed serve you honor. Shame on you! Indeed, shame on you! You're not letting him discuss this seriously. You let them use prime time, talk about what comes to mind, I feel sorry for them and for you. Gjuka sent you a message to Vukichev.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56467	Comrade Radeta, you can check, purely for public and citizens, your time was eight minutes and 33 seconds. I'm just... (Whispering Radeta: That's not true! All right, we'll check it out, and we'll figure it out. (Miss Radeta: check it out! ) Here, Minister Sinisha Mali wants to answer you. Do you want the National Assembly... . (Miss Radeta: Injury of the Rules of Procedure! You can't answer your phone five times in the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Radeta. And that's what you're gonna tell me?- I'm sorry. Nobody's defending you, but you advertised the Rules of Procedure. I want to advertise again. I couldn't hurt the Rules of Procedure. I don't know why you're acting like this. Minister Sinisha Mali has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56468	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, for the sake of Serbian citizens, therefore, the government of the Republic of Serbia adopted a fiscal strategy for 2020 on Tuesday, and in this fiscal strategy we do not give up on the target level of inflation, so that on this side what we are talking about today will in no way affect, nor change the range of inflation we are designing for this year or for the next year. On the other hand, I'd just like to give you one comment on the budget. This may be different between me or our concept of economic policy and your concept of economic policy. I think it is very important that revenues in the budget be realistic and invested or used for what Serbian citizens benefit most from. Whether it was and whether it would be an increase in wages and pensions or never more investment, these are the things the Government of the Republic of Serbia has decided on, but we have shown in the past few years that we are making the right balance or balance between raising the quality of life, direct raising and living standards through increased wages and pensions and indirectly through investment in infrastructure. For 2019 alone, we have 30% more allocated money to invest in capital projects than it was in 2018, but already in the 2020 projections we are slowly going to have even more investment. So, this year 220 billion dinars, we're already planning to go over 250 billion dinars in infrastructure alone for the next year, so into new kilometers and roads and railway infrastructures. So, when you talk about revenues, I don't want anything done by the Government of the Republic of Serbia to be a social category, so there's a special ministry that deals with it, so everything that's being charged on the one hand to be realistic, but that Serbian citizens have a clear idea or picture of how this money that goes into the budget is used and used for, and this is exactly this way in this case they have as well as everyone else. It is very clear when income comes from VAT, when income comes from taxes, from excises and other revenues you use on never higher investments, on salary increases, on pension increases, on redundancies of the economy, through the elimination of individual contributions to salaries. In the end, you have the highest growth rate in the last ten years, you have a decrease in public debt compared to GDP, these are facts that show that we make decisions in the right way and apply them, so that in the shortest time period we build our beautiful country and raise the standard of living for Serbian citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56469	Thank you, Dr. Mali. Right on the replica of the Witch of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56470	Minister, when we're such a rich country and we have so much money, we build so much, all the honey and milk, what do you increase your toll by 12%? Then why are you dragging people's hands into jets by 12%? That's not small. Let's increase the toll by 2%, what's inflation, so let's accept it, but 12%? So Minister Mali, if you increase your toll by 12%, then go to the entire public sector to raise your salary by 12%, raise your pension by 12%, then show us, so prove to us that the state stands in the financial sense indeed as you speak, not just a story and only a hand in your pocket, raise the electricity price, increase the gas price, increase the fuel price, increase the toll price. You know, tolls aren't a meaningless item at all, people often travel. Another question - you are constantly talking about how corridors are being built, among other things, in order for international traffic to take place in the largest number of cases, through Serbia, so you are turning these tolls away from our corridors. We'll have people walking around us again for this high toll. You think now all of a sudden all of what you spent on the corridor or especially what Zoran stole from the budget 300m euros to make up for it this way. That's not how it works. Mr. Sinisha Mali, I'm sorry, I'm speaking to you, but I just have to say one sentence, not to you, but to the President's Parliament. The Serbian Radical Party in the National Assembly has done a lot of things since the introduction of the multi-party system, kicked us out of parliament, took away the word, punished, left one MP in the O.R., did things to us, but brutally no one has stolen our time like you did yesterday and today, brutally no one has ever. You have succeeded for a few days, all of you together to be as Sam Fabrizio has urged you to be as nice, democratic, but the force has again come to terms and you still think that you are an untouchable force. Ask the government of Djukanovic. I'm going to ask really, Mr. Marinkovic, Marinik to report you to Sam Fabrizia, because I don't communicate with such a person.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56471	Thank you, colleague Radeta. I'm still responsible for telling you that was the time. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, All right, we'll have a chance, you'll see. Thank you. The word is Dr. Sinisha Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56472	Thank you very much. So, with an answer to the comments we've heard. Compared to European countries that have the same system and toll collection, the lowest toll per mile in Serbia is convincing. What might be much more important, if you use the same analogy as you used in terms of how much they were or how much a salary increase or pensions would be, I'll remind you that last year you didn't have any price increases, and you had a raise in public sector wages between seven and 12%. That's an average of anyone. You've had a pension increase of about 8%, too, so I'd disagree with your finding that you're choosing the age that suits you. You need to watch one longer period of time. In the economy, you should look at the trend. Trend is such that our economy is growing. Trend is such that real wages in Serbia are growing. They're still low, but 318 euros were a few years ago, now 465. To continue to grow and to be more attractive for investors, but also for the quality of life for Serbian citizens to grow, to have safer roads, we must invest in that road infrastructure. I prepared for today, I didn't get a chance to expose it, every year how many miles of new highways we just did, in 2014. 12.5 kilometers of new highways. In 2015, the Council adopted Decisions (EU) 2015/35 and (EU) 2015/35. 42.9 kilometers of highways. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 52.8km of new highways built in Serbia. In 2018, twice as many as 103.35. So, in my opening statement, I said we were building four or five new highways or shares this year. So, this investment cycle is speeding up and it is clear that you have to finance it on the basis of real sources, and of course we will also be grateful for that, to make sure that the salaries rise and more than 10% if possible, but to be based on the real results and savings that we have achieved, and not as previous authorities to take expensive loans and to finance the increase in pensions and salary increases in such a way, which then leads you to the full ambition, bankruptcy and bankruptcy that Serbia was facing in 2013. We won't let that happen. So we're responsible for every dinar. The incomes we have, which we earn, we spend and invest on what we consider to be a priority, as well as the growth rates of our economy, at the end and raising average salaries and pensions in Serbia show that we are on the right track. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56473	Thank you, Minister Mali. Now the right to replica has Vladimir Orlic on your exhibit, colleague Radeta, then you will get the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56474	This topic of parliamentary majority relations towards other parliamentary groups or the National Assembly is always interesting to me, so on the subject and how much you, Mr Marinkovic, but also to the other chairman, are terribly ill-armed and set towards the SRS parliamentary group, as is said today and yesterday, here is only one information. It seems to me that it has been measured statistically here that yesterday, the parliamentary group spoke 68 minutes, according to the right to present the parliamentary group, which, in accordance with the number of MPs that are to be represented, seems to me, 30 minutes and a few minutes. So, times two and a little bit over you showed tolerance for both you and the others who led this debate yesterday. I think it's great, the best possible indicator of how bad you are, how negative, aggressive, or what's already being said here at your expense. That's actually all, just not that. It's an indication of an extraordinary tolerance. It's not much to do with Sam Fabrizia, but I understand why he's been mentioned. It seems to me that on the subject of those, and quite incorrect assessments of the work of the National Assembly and the relations of the parliamentary majority in it, I have not yet met anyone who agrees to this extent with the European Commission's report, but the SRS parliamentary group, at least at that session when Sam Fabrici came to talk to the committee in charge about the European Commission's report. They agreed so much that once, honestly, it was hard for me to conclude whether Sam was speaking to the factory or the MPs of the SRS. However, it is nothing in itself controversial. The point is, since I'm talking here and Mrs Radeta said that a little while ago, let's point out what's good and what's bad news for the citizens of Serbia. They're good, of course, and they're 45% more car data on our roads this year and the fact that we have this Corridor 10. There you are, Mr. Minister, absolutely right, and we never had it before this time when, about Serbia, old Alexander Vucic and SNS, we are returning those old debts of 8-9% interest and, in this way, a significant asset to our people, as well as the fact that we are succeeding today, because we have where, thanks to this good, serious, host relationship, to finance serious projects, such as sewerage where there is no, factories where there has been no or other infrastructure, which is really visible to our eyes. You know, the bridge you see, the way you see, the tunnel you see, and that's all the things that no one can lie about, or invent. Last sentence. If you are really serious about this type of result and this kind of need for citizens of Serbia, then show it to the works. It's less important what anyone here is going to say, in this room, how loud it's going to be, it's much more important what they're going to do. For example, there's no more of that -- let the Old Town go now, but what it's going to do in Old Town, it wants to support those hooligans that tear up construction sites, or it's really going to get out of their words and say, "No, I don't have anything with them." That's a question for these suppressed 68 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56475	Thank you. Right on the line, The Witch of Radeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56476	Mr. Mali, since the Dosmanian Dosmanian Revolution in 2000, you've all been the same. Even then, you were in that system. You're all trying to throw dust in your eyes by talking to the public, how in Serbia the cheapest electricity is, here's the cheapest toll. And what is the salary in Serbia, Minister? Well, in those countries where there's more toll tolls, social benefits are bigger than our highest salary. And you talk, compare - the cheapest in Europe. Well, that's incomparable, don't mix your grandmothers and frogs, it's incomparable that you're talking about an average salary, for two years it's going to have to reach that 500 euros, for two years, and it's kind of constantly moving away at the last minute. Why don't you talk about half a million employees working for a minimum profit, which is 27 thousand dinars? So you said since the 27 thousand were determined, you said -- we've reached that magic number, and these days, the one that opened up some sewers there, it says -- we're going to reach that magic number of 30,000. What kind of magic is that, and what's the magic number? Half a million people work for you, we work for a minimum of 27 thousand dinars and you say in Serbia the lowest toll. Well, now let's kill people, so they can't even leave, go to their relatives, because they won't be able to take the toll once a month to get to Paracino and come back. Do you know where you live, my people? And then let these guys talk, what they're trying to do, I don't want to look back at any more of that nonsense I'm listening to on the left-hand side. Do you know, Minister Mali, and I suppose you know, that in 2013, when the toll totaled 20%, the largest, one of the largest shipping companies, VIP BET, and another Turkish firm, bypassed the roads where the toll was increased by 20%? This will happen to you at 12%, and then people will go where, those who live in Serbia will avoid it, you've heard it before, you'll avoid highways, you'll avoid payment ramps, you'll be safe, and these will go through Romania and Bulgaria, foreigners, and you'll see what you've done to Corridors. Of course, this doesn't mean that again someone's going to be mean and mean and mean and mean, to say, you're against building Corridors. We're not, but we're just so you're aware that this is the state of Serbia. You haven't done so much for the state of Serbia that you can compare the toll in Serbia and anywhere in Europe.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56477	Thank you, colleague Radeta. The word is Dr. Siniša Mali, then Veroljub Arsic. (Veroljub Arsic is gone because I didn't mention him.) It is SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56478	Dear People's MPs, I must admit I really don't understand what economic policy you represent. Here, you tell me who it is. How do we finance investment in road infrastructure? You tell me. If I can get an answer. Let's just say I don't really know. How are we going to do that without putting the budget into trouble how we brought it in because one of the previous ones brought it in in 2013? When we all talked about it or listened to those stories -- nothing should change, everything is great, and then from 2008 to 2012, the public debt of the Republic of Serbia grew from eight billion to 20 billion and something billion. Well, is that how we're supposed to finance road construction or maybe from real income? Here, you tell me. You're talking about a minimum labour price. Well, yes, the minimum labour price, and we're aware of that, until 2012, 2013 it wasn't changing, it was still going down, so we slowly raised it every September. And this September we'll raise her up. Last year by 8.6%, 8.9% was raised precisely because the economic results gave us the opportunity and there was agreement between employers and trade unions. And here, now we want it to go on and on. I don't know how, overnight, all of a sudden, how can you increase your wages but gradually, if you don't want to disrupt the balance in both the budget and the financial stability you have achieved? How do you raise and raise the minimum labour price you raise except like this? How do you hire people if you don't open factories? And 180 factories have been opened in the past five years, thanks to investments in infrastructure. Well, it won't come from any country if there's no highway, no gas, no sewer connection, no water, no internet. I don't know how you imagine economic policy. There's something you need to come from. If you have made painful but necessary measures in 2014, if in the meantime you have raised salaries in the public sector, raised pensions, salary growth and the real sector, not as much as we would like, but don't forget that we have had fiscal consolidation measures over the past few years, we have not had fiscal expansion measures, but consolidation and we have again achieved GDP growth last year. Now we say -- we want to watch us grow even more, even faster, so that we have grounds for even more wages and even more pensions. You say, "Don't do that." Here, you tell me how? Do you want to take expensive loans again at 7.25% or do you want to or do you think that kind of money falls out of the sky, so that something that falls we can invest? Well, he can't, we have to earn it. We earn it by saying – we have better infrastructure. I'm just a moment ago, here, hundreds of miles of highways I'm showing you, you're still -- well, you're not. Well, if we've made new highways, well, I guess it's logical and that the quality and safety of traffic is higher and it costs something, and then you invest it further in building more kilometers of highways. In my opinion, it is the only normal way or a responsible way to conduct a responsible economic policy. We saw how those before us went. They were all promises, everything was politics, everything was – it was nice, it's great, we're all beautiful, but eventually the public debt jumped, the country before bankruptcy in 2013. We say, "People, that's not how we're gonna do it." We want to talk about something on real grounds. You tell me a little while ago -- well, well, here, something's gone up now, but there's less pay. I didn't even understand what you said. Last year, when I tell you, nothing increased, wages increased, then nothing. Well, let's be consistent. So, for the economy, it's about the trend. Trend is such, unequivocal. It shows neither Sinisha nor you nor anyone, the IMF says, says the World Bank, statistics show. Let's go forward. Can we do better and faster? Well, we can and we will. So we're looking for a way to grow 6% or 7%, not 4%, and 4% is the highest growth rate in the last ten years. How do we grow apart from not investing more? If we want to talk about theory, so if you look at the structure of GDP, you can grow in three ways. One is through increased personal consumption, and we're working on it, raising wages, raising pensions. The second is through an increase in capital investments. We are working to raise and increase the investment made by the state, public investment, so-called, and you have never more inflows of foreign direct investment and private sector, new technology, new equipment, everything goes well. On the third hand, your third factor is this relationship between imports and exports, something that tells you about how the economy is moving forward, how attractive your economy is, and we have the fact that we've doubled the level of exports over the past five years. Doubled, so it didn't work out. I don't know where it came from. This is due to a responsible policy that attracts investors both domestic and foreign, which opens factories, in order for them to reopen the factory must have some time and some asphalt. We say, so we want to invest more in it, because we want to grow even faster, we want to be even more attractive, we want Serbian citizens to have safe highways, safe roads and local and regional. President Vukic announced in the investment plan, not only highways, so both local and regional roads. We want a new asphalt everywhere. We want Serbia to develop and we want to achieve this level of quality of life in developed countries as soon as possible, and we have lost many years, all of us, five and ten years, sanctions and wars and missed decisions. Now let's not make such a failed decision, to make a good decision, but to base everything on real base, on real income, so we don't get into the 2013 situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56479	Thank you. The word is Veroljub Arsic, right on line. Here you go, colleague Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56480	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I may not find hot water, but here's a solution so that, according to colleagues who do not support your work, we can provide a stable investment cycle. I guess they're for young people's work. Here, ORA – Corridor 10, ORA – Corridor 11, so they see the state, in no other way. It was added and thrown here from the bench, where SNS MPs sit, to hear nonsense. I also heard, not from a bench of SNS MPs, that the people have a hard time living, that there is no money, but that they often drive on the highway. What would you call it? Is that possible? I don't think so. I guess the last thing is, if someone doesn't have the money, to use what's not necessary at that point, they're going to take a detour, etc. So it's nonsense to me, not what's heard from the SNS. So, these demagogies that seem to me, we can't possibly get rid of that everything is folk, so whose is it? To whom, let me ask, and to whom is the tax money returned than to the citizens of Serbia? Is he coming back through retirement? Is he coming back through the payroll? Is he going back through health care? Is he going back through the education system or through the roads? Every penny comes back. The problem is, it seems to me, that someone resents Alexander Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and you for having results and for looking after every penny, you will not waste it in vain and return it to the citizens. That's what you resent, and it's supposed to show concern for the citizens. I'm not so sure of the honesty of their concerns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56481	Thank you, colleague Arsic. The word is "Verica Radet," right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56482	I suppose, Minister, that you know that in most Western European countries there are greater monthly social incomes than the salaries of a doctor of science in our beautiful, dear country of Serbia. Do you know ministers, I suppose, that you know that a thousand liters of diesel fuel in Serbia costs 745 euros, and that the real price is 637 euros and that the state takes 108 euros in this amount of thousands of liters of government burden? Is it small? Do you know, Minister, and you know for sure how much food there is in Serbia, that so-called consumer basket, than in more than half of the countries in the environment? Do you know, Minister, that the people of Serbia, because of the lower fuel price and because of the lower food price, move to Bijeljin, into Republika Srpska and bring it here? You know it all. From Saturday to Hungary. You know it all, and those demagogue stories of yours, you learned it well, not just you personally, and really don't do it anymore. It's degutant, Minister, and we certainly won't answer your calls. This demagogue story – everything is beautiful, beautiful and then a question – you tell me? That's what we hear every day at the conferences. You tell me a question for you, for whoever invented the question, journalists – you tell me, who boasts that there is 60% and I don't know how much support in the Republic of Serbia, so far you've had, and that support obliges you to tell us, not us to you. You let go, you talk, you talk like the one at the conference, he talks for half an hour, and when he gets a tick question, he says, you tell me, you answer me. No, you answer us.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56483	Thank you, colleague Radeta. The word has a minister, Dr. Sinisha Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56484	Thank you very much. Dear Members of Parliament, I do not live in Western Europe, I live in Serbia, so I know the information and information that concerns my country, but I am not afraid, unlike others, of making decisions. When I told you, tell me, not because we don't know what to do. I know exactly what I'm supposed to do, especially in the area of public finances, but just to hear your attitude or your strategy or your opinion, and just to avoid that politics that you're talking about and that populism, to be specific. That's what I wanted to do. I'm not afraid of my decisions and I'm always ready and I always take responsibility for all the decisions I make. It's not all beautiful and beautiful. I never said everything was beautiful and beautiful. I said we're going the right way, and there's a lot more to be done to make it more beautiful and beautiful in our country. You can't say that we haven't already crossed some part of the road, that there hasn't been an increase in wages or pensions or that we're not investing anymore or that we haven't made these highways that we've made. You can't say that Corridor 10 or that no one could have gone through the Gredile ravine for 70 years on the highway, we did it and now it's like nothing. So there's a lot to be done to make our system much better and much more efficient, but we're going down a path that's not easy to go through, and that's the way of responsible, stable public finances, not playing with these things. We got confirmation of that last week on the financial international market, but we want to find a way and find it that our country is growing as soon as possible, as much as possible, and we're not going to give it up, and that's the strategy we're implementing based on the decisions we've made. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56485	Thank you. The word is "Verica Radet," right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56486	Have you, Minister, been able to see that deal with Fiat, all of it, two rows of black and two rows of black and black? Do you know what it says where it's black? You haven't fixed it, and you know exactly what it says. It says that the state of Serbia has committed to paying contributions for employees, for all those in Fiat. So many subsidies get, land get, travel infrastructure get and still look, of course. All received and every one or five more, or already when payments are paid from the budget, funds are paid on behalf of employees' contributions in Fiat. Why don't you take the money from Fiat? Why don't you take that money and invest in that part of the Kragujevac road? You haven't answered what you're doing with these 108 euros per tonne of fuel. You tell me, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56487	Thank you, colleague Radeta. The word is Dr. Sinisha Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56488	Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. So, as you know, that part of the road from the highway to Kragujevac ends and that was the obligation that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, in a previous term, 10 years ago, if I am not mistaken, is Mladjan Dinkic and signed, that contract with the "Fiita". So to be honest, I don't know the details, but I do know that like every responsible country, you have to respect what, even if I don't agree, which someone signed before you. I think that makes us different from others, and that ultimately gives us the right to create and trust all the international institutions we work with. As far as excise policy is concerned, some of our budget revenues are also excise revenues and, of course, we are going with a policy of reducing these excise duties in the future, how our finances are more stable and stronger and how we will have even more revenue in the budget, if you are thinking in the long term about the structure of the income of the Republic of Serbia's budget. So most of the income is value added tax. The value added tax, as you know, is growing from month to month, year to year. This shows that the level of economic activity is intensifying and growing and parallel to that growth creating space to then reduce excise duties and to change excise policy. But once again, nothing overnight, because if you were to immediately cut some revenue into the budget, I'm asking you, here again, even though it's such a communication, and what would you reduce on the bulky side, would you cut back on your pensions and salaries now, or would you cut social benefits? So you can't do that. The economy and public finances are not things that decisions are made overnight or only based on partial information or knowledge. Every action causes a reaction. If you're cutting revenue, just tell me what expenditure you'd cut or otherwise you're entering the policy of the previous government, that they didn't have incomes, that they didn't cut expenses, but they covered the difference with expensive loans, which led us to the brink of bankruptcy in 2013. Well, we don't run this irresponsible policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56489	Thank you, Minister. The word is "Verica Radet." Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56490	Minister, we wouldn't cut salaries, we wouldn't cut pensions, let's just say, we would have suspended all the unnecessary agencies and all that money from the agencies. Let's just say we wouldn't fund those NGOs that don't deserve it. Let's just say, we wouldn't fund Tom Nikolic's villa and his imaginary function and his 30-dollar staff. There are a lot of ministers, only I won't answer you, this is just on the way. I'm not gonna answer your question, you tell me, I said every time I hear a reporter tell me, you tell me, because he doesn't know how to answer. But, Minister, I'm a lawyer, you're an economist and your doctoral dissertation refers to restructuring, privatisation or something, maybe I'm not accurate. Now, that should be the basis for you to deal with that contract he concluded, you say Mladjan Dinkic. True, true, Mladjan Dinkic or someone from that time, but I stressed that I am a lawyer because you as an economist do not need to know that there are harmful contracts. It's one of the bad contracts. As a good host, you had to raise the question of breaking up that harmful contract, as well as any other harmful contract. It's not the only harmful contract you've found, it's harmful and the SAA is harmful and all the agreements that led to the signing of the Brussels Agreement, and then it's trying to introduce to the people that you're the authority of the responsible people, the responsible state, so you have to maintain continuity with the previous government. That's not true. You've been under obligation and it's not too late for the service to give you all these harmful contracts, so you can get the lawyers in the department to start a process for breaking up harmful contracts or for making annexes of those contracts, so that the state no longer suffers damage. What does that mean? Dinkic signed a harmful contract, Dinkic plays the guitar, visits the squares, etc., does not play the piano he should be doing, or is not arrested, and should have been long ago and you will be hiding - Dinkic signed. First, Dinkic has to answer for it, and secondly, if you don't change all these contracts in due time, some of you will have to respond. There's no excuse, there's someone else who signed it, so there's nothing I can do about it. So, you are obliged to treat the budget with the attention of a good host, and this obliges you to review all contracts and enter into the process of changing all harmful contracts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56491	Thank you, colleague Radeta. The word has a minister, Dr. Sinisha Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56492	Thank you very much. Honorable MPs, it's not the cancellation of a contract that simple a thing, as you imagine. There is one broader context, and it refers to the business climate and the trust you build with investors. I don't know if the contract is what you're talking about, but what I do know is that some previous government of the Republic of Serbia signed it. And we are now talking, imagine a situation where we are thinking or struggling to bring "Folcvagen" to Serbia as well. Imagine if you had a situation here, a few days ago you broke a contract with some big investor, now, as you say, because of a harmful contract, but I suppose someone would have found anything else harmful in that contract and before you, that's how I talk to Folcvagen or Ford or any other factory, if I broke a contract a few days ago that was signed 10 years ago? So I'm not saying you might be wrong, but you can't do it over your knee. It can't be based on, well, now we're going to, you know, we're changing excise policy, but we're going to cut the cost of maintaining a building or a villa, which you already said. That's all I'm saying. So, the structure of the Republic of Serbia's income, budget revenues are improving year after year. That's the most important thing. We're increasing income from VAT, from value added tax. It means that economic activity is growing. This is the basis for investing in the future and investing further. As these revenues continue to increase, once again I tell you responsibly, there is room for a reduction in other revenues. After all, no one did, we abolished the employer's burden of unemployment last year, thus reducing the burden of profit, and we will continue this year with that policy, but you must first create a fiscal space in the budget. You have to earn something to save to invest, reduce or change any other policy. Our policy is a growth policy with both macroeconomic and fiscal stability. So, remember, monetary policy and monetary policy results are also seen in a stable course, dinar-euro and stable inflation, predictable inflation. Fiscal policy on the other hand at the predictable level of deficits or surpluses, we have a surplus for the third year in a row, which has never happened in the history of the Republic of Serbia, and now it's up to us, once again, maybe a little boring, to see how we can maintain and speed up our growth rates of our GDP, our economy, our economy. The higher our growth rates, there we have more money and we earn more money from taxes, from contributions, from VAT to budgets, for new hospitals, for new schools, for health homes and for those digital classrooms that will be 500 since September, for rare diseases and for everything else. The only right path, the only real path to sustainable development, is that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56493	Thank you, Dr. Mali. Right on the line, The Witch of Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56494	Minister, I was a little freaked out about this when you said you didn't know what was in the contract with the "Fiita." Who knows how many such contracts are so bad, so harmful, maybe even more harmful, if possible than that contract. How could there be such an important contract for such an important firm without you knowing what it says, first thing. The second thing, the business climate issue isn't just that you have to keep all the contracts you found. The issue of the business climate is, above all, the absence of corruption, and on this plan nothing has been done in Serbia, corruption is booming on every corner, from the lowest to the highest authorities and it is generally known. That's the basic thing. It wouldn't be news to break up a business contract. The contract is the will of two parties, and whenever one party assesses that there is no longer any interest in the contract, you remember two years ago almost "Fiat" did not go, so Ana Brnabić went there crying, crying, crying, praying, going to Italy, going to Kragujevac to keep them. So they were on the verge of breaking that contract. They'll break it when it's in their interest. The Indians broke their contract with Fiata, so Folcvagen came to them with no problem, and you said you were going to talk about "Folcvagen" coming to Serbia, that's good news from the minister. So, that "Folcvagen" will come to Serbia Ministers, that's good news, but when I first heard, a few months ago, the "Folcvagen" comes to "Icarbus" I froze, I said - oh, well, where is that "Mercedes" that Vukic brought him to "Icarbus"?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56495	Thank you, colleague Radeta. Right on the replica Veroljub Arsic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56496	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Minister, would, at that time, be Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic, normal, sound, or call whatever you want, that while you carry out the fiscal consolidation measures, you drive one investor out of Serbia and, with the loss of that investor, you reduce your GDP by about 3%, or increase your public debt by the same percentage of the GDP cut. Now, whenever such stories are started, I always ask the question – and who works in this "Fiat" in Kragujevac? Are they aliens, Martians? Are they from another country? Are they from another planet? Well, our citizens do, in the first place, our citizens. You're absolutely right when you say you have obligations, because you can initiate a contract termination procedure, but the contract is acceptance and obligation. We have accepted our obligations, whether they are good or bad for us, they are accepted by the government's decision, and even if you break the contract and we succeed in it, we would have to pay all the damages to the other side because we started or broke the contract. No one's defending us. Only in responsible people is the calculation of what is greater damage, what is the greater benefit? And it's important for these people to drive our story out, to drive the Fiat out, to get people out of the factory into the streets, to reduce GDP, to raise public debt, to be right in front of their voters.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56497	Thank you, colleague Arsic. The word is Ljiljana Malusic. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56498	Thank you, Chairman. Honorable ministers with co-workers from the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, before I go on the law, I would only congratulate the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the President of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Vukic, on this day, on Vidovdan, the airport in Brodjevci is open, so is the government responsible. Bravo. As far as the law is concerned, the draft law amending the Law on compensation for the use of public goods is public goods. Speaking of highways, in Serbia never in life, means in life, no highways are made anymore than they were made in 2012 to 2019, highways made, 470 kilometers. It's made 120 kilometers in projection to build another 670 kilometers. Serbia will build five highways. It's a corridor 10, the south leg, says people who came through here to look like a space shuttle, to look like an airport runway. I say hello, and I can't wait to get through there. By the end of the year, the eastern leg will be finished, Corridor 11 is built, highway to the southern Adriatic is built, and not only ends to Montenegro, but the construction of Ruma, Shabac, Loznica, the third highway. The Moravski Corridor, the fourth highway, the fifth highway, will be built by Belgrade-Shabac and who knows what else we will build. That's how it works. They honor us here not to hire people, that the average personal income is 26,000. Yeah, but it's not for half a million people, it's for those people who haven't worked in years. DOS fired 400,000 people, we hired 200,000 people. We opened 200 factories, each day arriving in the Republic of Serbia mass investments. That's how it works. We're going to open next year, we've got the biggest project ever, so it's going to work, a project was done in Borca industrial park worth ten billion. That's what the Republic of Serbia, the government of the Republic of Serbia does. Not only that, ten thousand jobs will be opened, people. We cut unemployment from 27% to 11%. We're doing as much as we can. As far as the roads are concerned, it's a great honor for the highways. Let's just remember DOS policy and in 2012. If we hadn't come to power, it would have been a bankruptcy of the country, it would have been an orderly, it would have lived like Argentina for 20 years without investment, terrible. Fifteen to twenty thousand would be the average personal income, and so camp for 20 years. Is that what happened? Thanks to the debt that Gilas left us, only the city was in charge of a billion and 200. Remember what that famous Mr. Gilas was doing? Well, I don't know what it isn't, since the boulevard affair, the famous affair, he cut the canvass, took us to the dubiosis of 650 million dinars, the citizens had to pay for it. The bus plus, he and his associates were also detained, admitted by his Aleksandar Bjelic about the abuse of "bulevara". However, there was a verdict and a man withdrew. Why? That's what we need to ask him, see what's going on. It was a terrible thing to live at that time. They honor us as we do. Well, we're doing fantastic, we're doing as much as we can and how much money we have. As far as roads are concerned, we will be no fewer countries per capita in terms of Central Europe, or more kilometres of highways. That's how it works, just keep it up, you've got all the cards.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56499	Thank you, colleague Malusic. The word is Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56500	I thank the chairman. Respected ministers with associates, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, investment in infrastructure is a investment in life, and life for SNS is the number one priority. Investment in infrastructure, in highways, is an investment in the better quality of life of every citizen of the Republic of Serbia from north to south, from west to east, and it is also the priority of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the SNS priority and the priority of our President Alexander Vukic. What SNS and our President, Alexander Vukic, distinguishes from all other political parties, is the truth that he tells Serbian citizens not by referring to fairy tales, not by making any manipulations, but by bringing the problem concrete, but also by bringing out the automatic and ways of resolving the problem for the benefit of Serbian citizens. This is an example of patriotism towards its country, towards its citizens, and this is an example of economic patriotism. Today, Aleksandar Vukic, our president, is at the opening of the airport "Ladjevci" near Kraljev, a very important infrastructure facility that will be an airport for international traffic, which will already employ 51 workers and that will also contribute to the quality of life both Kraljena and all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I must point out that this airport was opened in 1967, as a military airport and would continue to be used as a military and civilian airport. What I must mention, which refers to the King, the city of Kraljevo and our President Alexander Vukic, is that in the last year he laid the foundation stone for two new factories that will employ 7,000 people in the Kingdom. It is a textile factory, which is otherwise opened by a Turkish investor, worth 35,000 euros, will employ 2,500 workers and "Leoni" factories, a German company that will employ our 5,000 citizens of the Kings and the Environment, or 5,000 workers of the Republic of Serbia. That's true patriotism. Kraljevo was one of the school examples of cities that the yellow tycoon government of Boris Tadic and Gilas managed to devastate through robbery privatisation in the worst possible way and that one city that was an industrial centre to drive workers out into the streets, and factories robbed to the point that Magnochrom factory produced equipment and sold it as iron. That's what they did. We're doing things differently today. Except for the airport today opened by our President Aleksandar Vukic in the plan to build the Moravia Corridor, it is a direct connection of this part of central Serbia to Corridor 10 and to Corridor 11. This means inhaling one new life for citizens of Serbia as a whole. I must point out, other than this, that the President of the Republic, Alexander Vukic, in June of the month after an unremembered amount of rain that has fallen and has caused great consequences for the King and the surrounding villages, including the village of Sirce from the brooks, came and spoke to the citizens of Sirca personally to find and overcome the problem of brooks that are really causing great damage to the citizens of this village. Of course, when it comes to toll, I must point out that the Republic of Serbia is applying a closed toll system that is the most just, which means that it is paid per mile, i.e. the user of the highway pays as much as he uses that highway. This is what 12 other countries in Europe do, including Spain, France, Italy. Also, I must point out that building infrastructure is very important from the point of view of security. It is important from the point of view of security as traffickers, but also from the point of view of the security of endangered persons, for example, from the aspect of the safety of the sick, old and powerless that ambulance should be transferred from point A to point B. It is, of course, significant from the aspect of a pregnant woman, or maternity care that needs to be reached by a medical institution. He's significant from the aspect of child safety that goes to school. To conclude, Serbia's future is to invest in infrastructure, further developing infrastructure, so that the Republic of Serbia is networked by a network of highways, so that Belgrade becomes the transport hub of this part of Southeast Europe. We are on this path and therefore sincere congratulations to both the Government and the Ministry of Finance and, of course, sincere congratulations to our President, Alexander Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56501	Thank you, colleague. The word has the People's MP Veroljub Matic. Here you go, fellow Matić.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56502	Thank you. I'm going to be operational, and I'm essentially going to say some things that I don't think have been mentioned to a sufficient extent here, which is, toll, so of course the toll has to exist. There's tolls everywhere. There'll be tolls everywhere. Of course, the one who suggested that he was making an analysis and I have no doubt that this toll should be increased, but it's a much bigger question where these funds are used and whether these funds are visible. Of course they're used in road maintenance and road construction. Something has been said here, and I am sorry that my colleague is not here who has made major remarks on the work of "The Way of Serbia", i.e. Director Drobnjak. I wouldn't go in, but if there are certain problems there are competent authorities dealing with these problems, but if we appreciate the work of Director Drobnjak, we must appreciate it through the results of the work. I think there's been a lot of work done in his time, it's being played, it's being done in quality. It's something where we need to look at a certain manager, everything else isn't our job, it's other organs. For the sake of truth, I would say that all Serbia knows that people should be valued for the results of work. There were talks here yesterday about the Moravia Corridor and other roads and so on, something that local self-government is holding back in the spending of funds, in infrastructure or anywhere else, it's so-called. a fiscal deficit, i.e. the possibility of using certain means. You have the means but you can't use it. Why? Because of certain frameworks. Small municipalities have small budgets and they have to raise some funds for a year, two or three to get into a larger investment. Now, if you have municipalities that have mature incomes, they don't have debt, they don't have credits, they pay all bills, they service all needs, the needs of budget users, they have the ability to use bigger funds, I think the finance ministry has that possibility for such municipalities or cities to allow that possibility. I think it's for all the good. My request to allow such municipalities, of course, through the procedure provided for by law. Local traffic stations, please, the network of roads, of course, are the most important roads, but all other low-class roads that rely on the roads of the higher order, should be done too, to develop that network of roads to be of quality. He can't get into every middle, and he doesn't have to. Access traffic, I'm going to set an example of my municipality of Koceljeva, we're going to have three points where we're going to be on the highways at 30, 35 kilometers. One is Shabac, one is Valjevo, that's about 35 kilometers, and we now have a quality road and we're going to have an Ub which is the same 30 kilometers where we're going to have a new highway. There's a state-run car that's in poor quality. State traffic, that's route number 141 second A. Of course, it must be planned that we also reconstruct this station so that this highway will have full meaning that all municipalities or all places can have good or quality access to good and quality roads. That's why I think what our country is doing with the government and its public enterprises within the infrastructure, I think it's good and it needs to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56503	Thank you, fellow Matić. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. He's not here. The word has been given by MP Vera Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56504	The Honorable Chairman, Minister Mali with an associate, amending the Law on Compensation for the Use of Public Goods is proposing a change in the amount of toll compensation that was last made on 7 January 2017 when the toll was increased by 10%. On a proposal from the Ministry of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure, it is proposed that the current increase goes to 12%. The reasons for increasing toll levels are reflected in the use of real costs related to construction costs and business costs, maintenance and the development of a network of roads in the Republic of Serbia. For the Republic of Serbia this 2019 is crucial, as regards building infrastructure investments. This government, President Alexander Vukic, ended Corridor 10. Soon there will be a route of Defence-Cacchak, and the construction of the Moravia Corridor will begin, as well as the road of Ruma-Shabac-Loznica. There are more and more vehicles on our roads that are transiting across our country and will thus spend some euro in our country, passing these corridors. Corridor 10 is the most important travel artery in this part of Europe. Thanks to the third year of surplus in the budget, it is an incentive to build and invest in the travel economy. The results achieved in the first half of this year, direct infrastructure investments increased by 17% compared to the same period last year. Investment in road infrastructure will quickly increase GDP to, probably about 5.5%, which is very certain. But I really can't believe that all the results that are relevant here, and they're based on numbers and fact, someone's contesting it. Government efforts and the Little Minister's bonds were released on the London Stock Exchange with a positive 1.6% interest. Then unemployment fell to less than 11%. We're at 50% of the public debt that fell at 76%. I understand fellow opposition that these positive results do not match them, but they challenge them without any argument or fact. I ask my fellow Members to vote on this bill in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56505	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. The word has Professor Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56506	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Sinisa Mali, honourable MPs, the Republic of Serbia realised the process of accelerated modernisation, which was outlined by the government programme of the Republic of Serbia in 2014 which was then chaired by the current President of the Republic, Mr. Aleksandar Vukic, and later continued by Mrs. Brnabic. Let me remind you, gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, this programme of the government that Alexander Vukic composed, has drawn out a speedy modernisation of Serbia based on seven letters and I will show the citizens of the Republic here to see what this is all about. First letter and ideas. At a time when Serbia was facing bankruptcy. Other innovations, third institutions, fourth investments, fifth infrastructures we're talking about today, sixth information technology and seventh integration. There is no modernisation of the Republic of Serbia without modernising the infrastructure and without modernising roads and highways. The government of the Republic of Serbia in three years, this is accurate data, opened 138km of highways, restored 480km of state roads, built 360km of local roads, which is exactly 970km of respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia and gentlemen of the people's MPs. Rehabilitated and built 311 bridges. Speaking of this data, another piece of information, began work on renovations, completed hospitals, schools and health homes 360 in 130 cities. I am sorry, gentlemen, for the MPs that there is no opposition against us from the Alliance for Serbia, which I say from the Alliance for the Second Robbery of Serbia, because the first robbery was committed during the DOS. They are not able to face these facts, to face our views, suggestions, etc., but to wander the streets of the cities of the Republic of Serbia, as traveling circusers. I don't want to talk about them, but in the end, I'm just gonna tell you who these people are. In each sentence, say about whom and what it is; for that is what the people call them. It is Dragan Gilas, a people called the Giki Mafia, because he entered politics as a common gologous, and came out of politics with 700m euros. Vuk Jeremic, a people called the Wolf descendant, who has damaged the Republic of Serbia's budget through various corrupt actions, and is otherwise a member of a criminal international gang of thieves and frauds. Janko Veselinović, known in the people as Janko Stanocrat. He stole Milici Baji's apartment from Obrovec, on the street of Brace Kurjakovic no. 9, here he is, in the streets of Belgrade and other cities. Bosko Obradovic, if you are careful of the respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, was known as a lupeter in the people. Now he's got a new name, the Bosco bully, why. He raided the RIK, and attacked members of the RIK. Did an incursion in the municipality of Caves, carried out an attack on Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic, on the Administrative Board, broke into the cabinet of the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, on him, for he leads these traveling circuses. He raided a police station in Guca, attacked PINK journalists, attempted to invade REM, sought the shooting of the president of the Republic and Prime Minister, and attempted to invade Serbia's presidency. Asked the Army to carry out a coup, raid the RTS with the saws. The next Dusan Petrovic, called the cow-killer people. That, while serving as minister for a year, ordered the slaughter of 250,000 cows from the total 500,000. Next, Marinika Tepic, called a pigeon flyer. She lays in one party at night, and wakes up in the morning in the other party. Next, Milojko Pantic, in a nation called the madwoman. That moral gromada, a dead drunk, was driving on the highway and caused an accident, a miracle on Brank's bridge, fled, drove in the opposite direction, of course, arrested and taken to the police station for washout. Do you know who he accused? The citizens already know who else they'd want from than the president of the state of Alexander Vukic. I was right, gentlemen. People's MPs, when I called him in this high house a lunatic, Milojko Pantić and a drink, and it's a drink. He told us yesterday, he said that we were ambassadors of the donkeys here and that donkeys from the National Assembly should be expelled as soon as possible. Sergei Trifunovic, in a people called Sergei Pishoi, said without shame and shame that he would pee "in the thunder of Alexander Vukic". He was best said by his colleague Biljana Srebanovic "unrepentant, lying Sergei, who was your protest leader, always a sneaky liar, always licking my pants. He was the gold medal of being dragged up his ass, he always lied, he always smelled, he always scratched for money, he ate, he never washed, he always cheated on his colleagues," 20.1.2019. Now the one who keeps criticizing us, the university professor, Dr. Bojan Pajtic. Imagine, in a nation called a patriot. Why? Because he hired the Dukes in the Executive Council until his 20th generation. That's not what I'm saying, but his party colleague, Goran Jesic, "Pajtic hired in the executive council of Vojvodina, aunts, aunts, sisters, sister-in-laws, sister-in-laws, snorkels and godmothers". Of the 670 employees in the Vojvodina Executive Council, as many as inherited, Pajtic increased to 2,700, Goran Jesic said, 17.9.2014. We now have Mark Bastac, called "putar". Why the butter? Because he fought a battle with traffic signs. This man, the respected Belgraders, who put his wife, his wife, his husband, his cousin, and the mother of his godfather on the list of councilors of the Old Town. When they asked him why? He says they wouldn't run off to other parties. Let's move on. Municipality of Smederevska Palanka, MP of the DS, Radoslav Milojic called "Kena" or "Pivopia". He drank 457,700 dinars in 2016. In the “Atrium” cafe, he spent 110,000 on coffee and beer, and in 13.05.2016, he spent an extra 139.000 on beer. Please, no graphite has been erased in Smederevska Palanca which is dedicated to our colleague. I will once again quote him here: “The truth is alive, there is no beer in Palank, there is only foam left, there is yellow Ken. And the beer was expensive, I drank it, I bought it. What's the coffee shop drinking? Budget pays for everything. I'm the yellow Ken from the Glyboac! “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” It's a finished quote. Please, in the end, Dr. Dr. Jovo Bakic, called "the mocker". You'll hear why he's called a garbage man. Every day, he muds in the most terrestrial manner of the President of the Republic, Aleksandr Vukic, his family, his closest associates, such as Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic and Finance Minister Sinisha Mali. Docent for the third time, Dr Bakic was 15.01.2015, inviting President Aleksandar Vukic to a TV duel, said, quote – Vukic can take with him and Mali and Snotty. It's a finished quote. This wonderful university teacher, he said on 17 January 2004, quote -- that President Vukic is Angela Merkel's excavator. It's a finished quote. It's like I said it as a university professor – Dr Jovo Bakic is a piece of shit, Bill Clinton, Dragan Gilas and Vuk Jeremic. Obsessed by the hatred of President Vukic, Dr Bakic gave the student master's work, quote – the role of "Pinka" and "Hypija" in the creation and reproduction of the cult of personality and analysis of the content of the guestship of Aleksandr Vukic in the shows "Tough Word" and "Cirilica". It's a finished quote. Can you, dear professor of university, believe that this university teacher, a third-time professor, Dr. Bakic gave this for master's work. What sociological sources did he use? What material sources, which written sources did he use, etc? Is that political interference in the teaching process? It is as if I, as a professor of the university, gave master's work to a student, quote – the role of the Faculty of Philosophy in Belgrade in the creation and reproduction of cults of ignorance, intellectual prosacularism, scientific diletantism and an analysis of the election in calling for the third time Professor Jova Bakic. From day to day, from hour to hour, for the third time, docent Dr Jovo Bakic, in the most ground floor, places lies and bribes on President Vukic, so he says without shame and shame. Citiram – Vukic has friends who trade drugs and he sets up state affairs for them. It's a finished quote. I recommend that Professor Jovi Bakic frame all these false statements to the President of the Republic, Alexander Vukic, and put in his study as his scientific and civilizational achievement, to remind himself of his democratic and civilizational and scientific culture. When Jovo Bakic and others of the Alliance for Serbia are placed in the shoes of President Aleksandar Vukic, his associates, his family that we are used to unfairly suffering from lies, fiction from the bottom of the snake, professionally deformed lunatics, such as Dr Jovo Bakic and similar, they will not be able to get a significant role in the public scene, nor to teach at the Faculty of Philosophy. In the end, ladies and gentlemen, those of the Alliance for Serbia, walkers, have completed their mission, not me, but the actor Nikola Kojo. He told them on 4 February 2019, quote – if the protests fail, I leave this country. It's a finished quote. The same actor Nikola Kojo, about a month later, said on May 10, 2019 about the protests, quotes – people slowly realize that the protests from the beginning of the end were led by censors, with the help of various half-worlds and semi-innovators and works of students who believed them, finished the quote. I ask the distinguished actor to keep his promise and leave this country after he has determined that these protests have stopped. Dear ladies and gentlemen, as well as my colleagues and colleagues from the SNS, of course we will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56507	Thank you, Professor. Atlagic. The word now has Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56508	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, I am taking the opportunity to congratulate the Serbian Government at the very end of today's debate, which is said to be, for the record and for history, today for civil traffic to open Morava Airport, on the fact that after 33 years today, we are able to open a civil airport in Serbia and share with you the confidence that it will only be the first in a series of airports that we will be able to open together to the satisfaction of all Serbian citizens. And also on the fact that it seems to me, today, measured data, that industrial production in May has increased, and also on the fact that you were talking about today, that this year, in the present part of the year, we have exactly 17% more investment compared to the previous, not exceptionally successful, but the championship year. These are all the great things that make us today living in Serbia with a good basis, for good reason we feel, as the president of the state of Aleksandar Vucic said today, as the people who are fighting, who are making a result, and have neither fear nor sight nor anyone else, but rather the willingness to win for themselves and for their country. You know, that the kind of results and every kind of effort and joint work that we provide, and in the future, will always have the support of SNS MPs without any reservation.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-06-28-0.u56509	Thank you, Dr. Orlic. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the principled search is concluded, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a principled debate on the proposal for a law. I am informing fellow Members of the People's Parliament that we will continue our work on Tuesday, July 2nd, at 10:00 p.m. Thank you for your participation and your work. Of course, thank you and Dr. Sinishi Mali for his participation and work and dedication. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the 12th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 86 peoples. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 94 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that at least 84 MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
