ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61292	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 72 MPs attend the session. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please insert your identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 129 MPs are present in the hall and that we have conditions for further work. I am voting on the minutes of the Fourth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia of 18, 19, 23, 24 and 25 April of this year. I conclude the vote: four MPs did not vote for – 126 MPs. I understand we've adopted the record. I am voting on the minutes of the fifth regular session since May. Finalising vote: for – 129 MPs. I understand we've adopted the record. I am voting on the minutes of the sixth session of the regular session of 22, 23, 24 and 29 May. Finalising vote: for – 129 MPs. I understand we've adopted the record. I am voting on the minutes of the 20nd Special Session, from May 27th and 28th. Finalising vote: for – 128 MPs. I understand we've adopted the record. I am voting on the minutes of the 20rd Special Session in the 11th session, held on June 3rd. Finalising vote: for - 127 MPs. I understand we've adopted the record. In the context of this session delivered to you, the draft agenda for the session was contained. Before setting out the agenda for the session, we need to decide on proposals for supplementing the agenda and bringing the debate together. I'm giving my colleague a microphone to lead the session further.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61293	National MP Nemanja Sarovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to determine the facts regarding the killing and the political background of the murder of Zoran Djindjic, who submitted to the National Assembly on 15 December 2016. Does MP Nemanja Sarovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 132 out of the 133 members of the people present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the committee of inquiry to determine the facts and circumstances concerning the pressures on the state authorities and violations of the law during the elections for MPs in the National Assembly held in 2016, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. Does MP Nemanja Sarovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against those who are abstentions, has ever voted 133 MPs, as long as they are present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Bozidar Delic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Bill on the Rights of Fighters and Families of the Dead and Missing Fighters, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 November 2017. Does the MP Bozidar Delic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 134 of the total of 136 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. People's MP, Ms. Radet, on the basis of Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Family Law, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. Does the People's Messenger of the Prophet Radeta want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61294	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are witnesses daily, mostly from the media, about the difficult situations of children in Serbia, a certain number of children. It's mostly multi-member families, children who, for one reason or another, have lost both or without one parent, live most often with their grandparents in so many inhumane conditions that a normal man can't even look at what conditions these children live in. On the other hand, we keep hearing from the authorities how everything should be done and how it will be done I don't know exactly what to do, to improve, or increase the birthright in Serbia, but we obviously don't care enough, or you don't care about the children already born. As often as this occurs in the media, the fundamentally difficult situation of these children is not so numerous that they could not be solved. This proposal to amend the Family Law is just an initiative to consider the proposal and to process it seriously. For example, when it comes to children who eventually get into newspapers, they get a house by having some companies or some people, individuals, give certain funds, and those kids get a house, apartment, etc. Instead of dividing the obligation by local self-government, for surely there are not so many such children who live in sneezing houses, where instead of window glass they put nylon, there are not so many that local self-governments could not solve these problems. It's just amazing that social work centres in municipalities, that these local community officials, that local self-governments don't have information about such families, and that they don't separate the resources to solve these problems, not to solve themselves in the newspaper for those with whom, therefore, in such a difficult situation, the happy circumstances make them in some media. So we have to deal seriously with the problem of family, the problem of children, children who are poor, and it's not just a solution to give a child into a foster family and that this foster family, we repeat it from session to session, gets 50,000 dinars for each child, and with 50,000 dinars a month that would get those families would grow up in the middle where they really belong and where they would first be surrounded by love and attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61295	Thank you, colleague Radeta. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – no one, abstentioned – has voted 133, of the total of 136 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. People's MP, Ms. Radet, on the basis of Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Selection of National MPs, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. Does the People's Messenger of the Prophet Radeta want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61296	The dignity of the National Assembly is threatened primarily by the MPs, and above all because of the fact that we have the Law on the selection of MPs, which was changed in 2008, which has put a very strange parliamentary mandate at the disposal of the one who received the mandate from the list of certain parties. We were against these changes, and when it happened, because we knew it meant political trade, that it meant something that was absolutely unacceptable, and we are in a situation today that we don't even know how many parliamentary groups we have, or what some parliamentary groups really represent, which are legitimate and represent that MPs are representatives of some parties who haven't even participated in the elections, who didn't even exist at the time of the elections. Then we have a situation for citizens to wonder what kind of National Assembly is that they don't know who's drinking or who's paying. We have been trying for a year to understand the congregation's majority to amend that member of the law, to return the constitutional provision, and to enable the MP to, if he wishes, make his mandate available to the party whose lists he has been elected MP. Believe me, it's nothing, it's constitutional, but there's nothing more normal and natural than that. If someone who is on the list of MPs says – I will not put my mandate at the disposal of the party, then it is a matter of the party and someone who is normal or not normal to put it on the list, because such an advance shows that he does not think of respecting that list, that party, the political programme, above all, that brought him into the National Assembly. We don't see any further why you don't accept, you know, if it happens to you, these different strangers who come to you at any moment and who give you these or such orders, if they happen to impose something like that when they realize, when they come these days, what kind of papacy is in the National Assembly, then you'll definitely accept without a lot of questions and no many explanations. We are proposing, not because of the SRS, but because of the citizens of Serbia, because of the voters, because of the reputation of the National Assembly, that this member of the law be changed and that we know from the next elections, that we know that whoever enters from some list into the National Assembly can only act within that parliamentary group. If he doesn't like it, let him go, but leave the mandate, because mandates are won on the basis of pre-election programmes, based on programmes run by political parties or coalitions that go to elections. The mandate no one in this room has received, nor will they receive in their personal name, at least while this law is in force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61297	Thank you, colleague Radeta. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that for - nine, against - none of the abstentions - did not vote 126 MPs, out of the 135 members present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Putting Off the Force of the Labour Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. Does MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 133 MPs, of the total of 135 MPs present. National MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. Does the People's Messenger Natasha Sp. Jovanovic, does he want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61298	The case of the mayor of Kotor, one of the presidents of Serbian parties, also in Montenegro, is just some of the examples that Serbs under the regime of mobsters and Serbs Milo Djukanovic must suffer terror because they express their belongings to the Serbian national Corps and because many of them want to, with the citizenship of Montenegro, where they live, have the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia as their country of origin. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I remind you that after the adoption of the Constitution in 2006, we immediately had the adoption of the Law on Citizenship, whose amendment we are looking for. We insisted that anyone who feels Serbia's belonging and in his statement says that the state considers Serbia its queen, may request membership in the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia. However, the process has been tormented by the fact that these administrative barriers, long-term checks, various procedures also make it impossible for Serbs from Montenegro where they are extremely endangered, and sprayed Cyrillics, mobsters and traitors Milo Djukanovic at the Serbian Orthodox Church, are putting people out of work because they belong to the Serb people. That is why it is necessary, and also because of Serbs from Republika Srpska, and over 50,000 have applied for citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, for employment, for study, for everything they can get. After all, the special relations Serbia has with Republika Srpska also suggest that we must give every opportunity to our countrymen from Republika Srpska if they want to enroll immediately in the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia. Then why wait two or three years? Why can't they start a working relationship after they graduate from college? They can't get everything else that Serbian citizens who are citizens of the Republic of Serbia can get. It is therefore necessary to limit the deadline for the final decision in the citizenship process to six months. Six months is enough to carry out all necessary security and other checks and, based on documentation from Serbs from Montenegro, Republika Srpska, as well as from the diaspora, so around the world, many of them want to do so, are submitted to the competent interior ministry, i.e. to give them the opportunity to be enrolled in the book of citizens of the Republic of Serbia after six months or six months at the latest. That's why I'm asking you to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61299	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for seven, against—no one, the abstentioned—has voted for 130 MPs from the total of 137 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Ruzica Nikolic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the transplantation of human organs, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. Does the MP Rose Nikolic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 136 of the total of 137 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Filip Stojanovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Border Control, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. Does MP Filip Stojanovic want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61300	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted a bill on amendments to the Law on Border Control and I demand that it be included in today's session agenda. It is known to all that the most important characteristics of each country are its internationally recognised borders that separate it from other countries, or its neighbours. The state of Serbia has defined and internationally recognised borders towards its neighbours. The Serbian state's borders towards its southern neighbour, or Albania, have been defined by UN Security Council Resolution 1244. Unfortunately, Serbia is one of the few countries that has violently kidnapped part of the territory by 19 NATO pact states, as well as some other states that want to legalise the state of occupation and to declare Kosovo's and Metohija's borders according to the rest of Serbia as international borders. We in the SRS are aware of the circumstances under which this occurred. We do not blame the current regime for the situation of Kosovo and Metohija, but we blame it for something else. Namely, the leading authorities of the Republic of Serbia must constantly insist on Resolution 1244 guaranteeing the integrity of the state territory of the Republic of Serbia. But so far, we have not seen this regime insist on Resolution 1244 and we find that inadmissible. I remind you that according to that resolution, Serbia has the right to deploy 1,000 members of its security forces at the border towards Albania. As a man who was born in Kosovo and Metohija, who spent his entire life down there until a violent exodus, I will always ask all regimes to insist on respecting Resolution 1244. This team before the international circumstances slowly change in our favour and I am convinced that we will not wait long for the day when Kosovo and Metohija will be re-integrated with the rest of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, there should be no compromise on state territory, while all other topics can be discussed with Albanians, and you can see that the Republic of Croatia is also showing hidden aspirations towards the part of our territory located on the left bank of the Danube. On this point, the regime must be uncompromising, not agreeing to any negotiations or arrangements on this subject. That is why I believe that by adopting this law that I have proposed, it will create clear assumptions and necessity as soon as possible to put the occupied part of our territory under our full control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61301	Thank you, colleague Stojanovic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 130 of the total of the 137 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Tomislav Ljubenović, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Financial Support for the Family with Children, which submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. Does MP Tomislav Ljubenovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 136 of the total of 137 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dubravko Bojic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on psychoactive controlled substances, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. Does MP Dubravko Bojic want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61302	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't already know which way I'm talking about psychoactive controlled substances, and I'm gonna say right now that it's good to talk about this subject, to explain this phenomenon with more aspects. To remind ourselves, psychoactive controlled substances make up intoxicating drugs or narcotics, psychotropic substances, products of plant origin that have psychoactive facts and other psychoactive substances. As intoxicating drugs or narcotics act primarily on the nervous system, causing a feeling of pain reduction, sleepiness or alertness, loss of motor functions and other pathological and functional changes in the central nervous system, so far this so-called. The new synthetic drugs are unknown and very dangerous. They are stored in manual and trained laboratories, very modest or no technical and scientific capacity. They have a very harmful heart rate, they can lead to a heart attack, they can lead to heart failure, they cause dangerous internal bleeding, and they can lead to renal failure. These drugs are produced, I said, in these plants that are grown, from home conditions, from garages, basements, terraces, then in gardens, fields, fields. They are particularly dangerous for the school population, a population without its basic modality, which in search of its expression, its authentic identity, unfortunately, is often unable to resist this social pressure, the pressure of the environment or the group to try and thus risk being consummated, and unorthodox. I have to say that drugs never again, and her price is never cheaper. Once it was only available to a smaller group of privileged and consumed in elite clubs, cafes, elite rafts, etc. Today, she is available because of her price in general. Drugs often enter our country from Albania through Kosovo, so Albania is European Colombia and Pristina is European Medeljin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61303	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 131 out of the 139 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Does MP Zoran Despotovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 137 out of the 139 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Does MP Sreto Peric want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61304	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, when in 2011, we fiercely criticised the draft law on enforcement and security proposed by the DS, many Serbian citizens did not understand and felt it was too harsh a criticism. However, through the application of the law until 2015 and 2015, the amendments and additions to the law were able to make sure that the law was executed for them, for the citizens of Serbia. There is little problem that many of the MPs have no understanding of the dangers that come from this law and think that they will never come under that law strike. Some of our colleagues who were MPs in this assembly until 2008 may have also thought, however, in the past year they had problems, it is the Aksentjevic family, in one, I would say, an inhuman, uncivilised way, they felt in their own skin what it means when such a law exists in the legal traffic of the Serbian state. The perpetrators have become deaf and blind to the state in which Serbian citizens live and to the abuse that is constantly taking place in the application of the law. Many families in Serbia, many individuals have felt what it means to have such a law in place. For example, the Delic family from Prepolje, where the four-member family, including the father and his four children, as solid debtors for trespassing and when the compensation was awarded, was realised by one of them four, then the judge who was the executive judge obliged the other three family members to pay the same amount. It seems to me that some judges, too, are very supportive, I'd say, ferocious perpetrators, perhaps all of the 217 there are, are not, but the greatest number is. The rapid wealth of these public executioners, there are high-level judges in the justice system in Serbia, there are lawyers who were first judges and later lawyers, who have been doing this job very professionally and responsibly for years, but their wealth cannot be measured against public executioners, whose history is with us for just a few years. Although before the summer break it was the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Implementation and Security and Ms. Nela Kuburovic said that, under this law, public contractors and employees in public enforcement offices cannot appear as buyers when it comes to taking away apartments and other properties, personally, directly and in their name, it is true. But I do know an example, and you know for certain that there are, whether public contractors or their associates who buy property from the cases they were dealing with, by buying and registering on behalf of their aunts, aunts, relatives or someone else. I think as persistent as the SNS is, above all, not to accept this bill, the SRS will be even more resilient to put this law out of force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61305	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, no one, with abstentions, voted 127 out of the 140 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Does MP Nikola Savic want a word? Yeah. Here you go, colleague Saviæ.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61306	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I asked for the agenda of this session to be complemented by the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on textbooks. The textbooks are too serious to be able to give in to the case, our children, our generations grow up to form their life views, their opinions and everything else. All regimes have worked hard to give those textbooks who process social sciences an ideological nuance that will contribute to the regime and its attitudes, and today we seem to have a reverse situation. We have textbooks that process national culture and national history in which facts are, above all, materially unfounded and facts that distort certain things that are vital to this people and this state. I personally think that textbooks can't be written by everyone but there should be a strict selection to which a license to write textbooks will be given, but today we have a situation where people who are not up to that task write textbooks, I'm talking first of all about those textbooks like I said, which process national culture and national history. We were held as a people, as a nation. All this time thanks to our transmission and until there were no textbooks from the knees of our history, our tradition, our culture, everything that was most important in our history, all the most important things that our ancestors did, and now that we have available textbooks and the Internet and everything else, it's like we failed in that business. Here is General Bozidar Delic sitting next to me, which is why we don't put famous battles in the textbooks, for Koshar, for Paštrik, to see that our heroes have faced much more powerful, much more numerous enemies, and that's the thing to be found in textbooks. Not to mention who's printing textbooks today, the monopoly in this area has publishing houses from Croatia, Slovenia, of course, behind it all stands German capital. We, of course, do not advocate that one publishing house has a monopoly in this area, but there must still be one publishing house like before was the Institute for publishing textbooks and teaching tools behind which the state of Serbia will stand and that it is known that these very most sensitive things regarding national culture and history, that they are conducting the writing of these textbooks.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61307	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for nine, against—no one, the abstentioned—has voted— 133, of the total of 142 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Nikola Savic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a bill on amendments and additions to the Transport Safety Act on the roads submitted to the National Assembly on 28 March 2019. Does MP Nikola Savic want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61308	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have tabled a proposal to supplement the agenda of this session - amendments and additions to the Traffic Safety Act on the Roads. This is not the first time and the first session where I submit a proposal to amend and supplement this law and believe me, I'm tired of explaining and talking the same, especially as it is a trivial thing that's very easy to change. So all we have to do is rephrase a few sentences in Article 47. The traffic safety law on roads, because there are many illogicalities and contradictions and where it is simply not possible to determine who is the vinier of a car accident when it comes to it. Experts in the area of law, this member, or the position of this law, interprets him in one way, and the experts in the traffic profession interprets him in another way and there are still disputes, disputes are being held. Some disputes went even to the Constitutional Court, where it is simply not possible to determine who is the main culprit for the car accident. That's why I'm appealing to the Resort Ministry to pay attention that this thing changes in law. It doesn't take any money, no means, just to look at that member, to reform it, that's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61309	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—nine, against—no one, the abstentioned—has voted— 133, total - 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Miroslav Stankovic Đuričić, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Biomedical Aided Insemination, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 14 March 2019. Does MP Miroslava Stankovic Đuricic want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Miroslava Stanković Curičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61310	Thank you, Chairman. On behalf of the SRS, I submitted a bill amending and supplementing the Biomedical Aided Insemination Act. Today we are witnessing an extremely poor demographic picture of the Republic of Serbia. Every year our country loses 35,000 to 38,0000 inhabitants. If this continues in 40 years, we'll have three million people less than today. If we add everything to the fact that more than 300,000 couples have problems with infertility, we come to the conclusion that the Law on Boimedical Insemination is extremely important, and the problem of birth is one of the burning problems of the Republic of Serbia. Those who go through this battle know how difficult it is to collect all the necessary medical documentation to reach the Commission for the entry into the process. As someone who went through this process alone, I can say that couples are often misunderstood and that they feel lonely and helpless. Therefore, I should achieve that diagnostics are simple, fast and affordable, which is absolutely not the case at the moment. It is necessary to abolish the age line and leave it to the commission to assess the individual reproductive potential. It should be possible for every woman who fills medical catches to try to be realized as a mother. Also, the law should regulate matters of male infertility, i.e. to ensure that men are treated for the cost of the Republic Health Insurance Fund. Then increase the number of funded attempts of biomedically assisted fertilisation by the Republic Health Insurance Fund, as well as enable the process of frozen material to couples who have a problem with male infertility, as well as couples who have frozen healthy material before entering the malignancy treatment process. Also, to enable the financing of the costs of the Republic Health Insurance Fund for freezing and freezing materials. To enable biomedically assisted fertilisation and those couples that have already been made available as parents naturally through or through biomedically assisted fertilisation. Why would these couples be sentenced to one child if a problem arises and the only way to get them back as parents is to become biomedically assisted insemination, and there are few such couples. This right is also guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia under Article 63. This problem is very complex and sensitive and should be thoroughly approached and solved. I suggest you support this bill's amendment due to an alarming demographic picture of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61311	Thank you, colleagues. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – no one, abstention – did not vote – 133, total - 141 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Aleksandar Stevanović, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Order and Peace, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 October 2018. Does MP Aleksandar Stevanović want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Gjorge Komlenski, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - Proposal for a decision on the education of the NATO Pact's committee to investigate and determine the number of victims of aggression in 1999, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Djordja Komlenski, Marijan Risticevic, Ana Karadzic and Bojan Torbica on 10 May 2019. Does MP George Komlensky want a word? Yeah. The word is Gjorge Komlenski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61312	Thank you, Chairman. Comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen, after 20 years of the end of criminal aggression against Serbia, I think it's high time we did what our ancestors missed out on when it came to both World War I and World War II and some other wars. We know how difficult we are today to get accurate and accurate data on heroes from World War I, World War II. We meet with the victims of Serbs, Roma, Jews being manipulated when it comes to Croats compared to Jasenovac. We hear all sorts of things, and we'll probably live to hear one day that Jasenovac was also a child's nursery and a playground, not the biggest death factory that the Germans who held Auschwitz were threatening and creeping out of. In order not to experience it, I think it's high time we learned from the gaps that have been done before us and that while it's still relatively fresh, and yet enough time distance has been made, we make an absolutely accurate and accurate list of all the victims of NATO aggression in 1999. When we talk about this, this applies absolutely equally to members of the then Yugoslav army, members of the Ministry of the Interior and to civilians, to all those who have lost their lives, as well as to all those who have been wounded. This should enable and ensure that their names are preserved, that we remember forever the place and the consequences that the villains have left behind. I think it is one of the important ways to pay tribute to anyone sacrificed in 1999 by the NATO Pact, who has tried in one beastly way to destroy the Republic of Serbia and its citizens. For this reason, I appeal to my colleagues to establish this committee, practically unify all the documents and data that exist in various ministries, to invite those of our dear citizens who are such types of lists of rules, but selectively, someone in relation to the military, someone in relation to the police, to unite this as the most important legislative body and the most important representative body of Serbian citizens, to verify and determine once and for all that no one should question anyone's life, no one's sacrifice that happened in 1999. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61313	Thank you, colleague Komlenski. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for - eight, against - no one, abstention - has, has not voted - 133, a total - 141 of the MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marijan Risticevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's polling committee, to determine the facts and circumstances related to the declaration of the fake state of Kosovo, the influence that the International Court of Justice had on this, and the responsibility of former Foreign Minister Vuk Jeremic, who submitted to the National Assembly on 27 March 2018. Does MP Marian Risticevic want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—six, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 136 of the total attendance of 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Marijan Risticevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to identify the facts and circumstances related to visits to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia of certain extremist organisations and individuals, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 27 March 2018. Does MP Marian Risticevic want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 133 of the total attendance of 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a declaration on genetically modified organisms and products from GMOs, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 5 May 2017. Does the People's MP, Professor Miladin Ševarlic, want a word? (Yes) The word of the messenger of the people is Prof. Dr. Miladin Shevarlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61314	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear citizens, here for three years at each regular session, I have explained the need to adopt a roof declaration against GMOs, which 136 of municipalities and cities in the Republic of Serbia or over 80%, with more than 7,000 council members, unanimously in these 136 municipalities and cities, adopted, and the MPs who are from the fields of these 136 municipalities and cities do not give five pairs, figuratively speaking, for your views. That is the reason to think carefully whether this election system is responding or not in the Republic of Serbia and whose MPs are, whether MPs are listeners to party leaders or representatives of the people. In spite of that, one day, we'll regret the fact that we're missing out on GMOs, when complaints of malpractice farmers start to arrive about the use of pesticides based on glyphosate, when consumer claims of impaired health, as is the case in America today. I also want to point out one fact that because we are not using the huge potential that Serbia is a country without GMO production and thus form a brand of products from Serbia without GMOs. I'm going to show that on the case of exports of junk meat to Turkey. Last year, Turkey imported 54,000 tonnes of beef, with 3,609 tonnes from Serbia. The average import price was 3,959 euros per tonne, while the meat was paid from Serbia at 5.340 euros per tonne because the meat produced without the use of GMOs. Imagine now how much profit would it be for all of our agriculture that all products from Serbia that go, wear a trade mark or on the declaration that these are products without GMOs? Why don't we use that tag? Who's that bothering? Who is the listener "Monsanta", "Bajera" and other companies or lobbys that produce pesticides based on glyphosate? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61315	Thank you, colleague Chevarlich. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 141 of the total attendance of 143 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Marijan Risticevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's polling committee to identify the facts and circumstances related to the business of cable operators, the broadcasting of cross-border channels, the broadcasting of domestic advertising in content of cross-border channels and other irregularities related to electronic media and cable operators controlled by Dragan Gilas, Dragan Šolak and David Petreus, who submitted to the National Assembly on 12 April 2019. Does MP Marian Risticevic want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61316	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Shevarlic has just come out because he knows what I'm going to say. I repeat, the 2009 Act on GMOs, "Official Messenger" 41/2009, prohibits the transport and production of GMOs on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, except for medical purposes. Therefore, the law prohibits the transport and production of GMOs in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and the law is an act which obliges and through whom it is punished. The Declaration of Declarations, declaratively and do not understand the MPs who want to derivate the law, express their legal obligation to derivate the declaration. As far as I'm concerned, it's certainly clear to you that in the last six months, I insist that SBB has formed several television channels owned by them. She registered them in Luxembourg and reportedly re-emissioned the program here. Re-emission means the takeover of a media service done abroad, at the same time without alterations and additions and terminations. These cross-border channels serve SBB, Gilasu and Sollaku to pump out money from a subscription paid by citizens of the Republic of Serbia to SBB. Re-emission can only occur if there is an initial broadcast and a media service is taken over at the same time. Here's an example of N1 television, 22/09/2019, 15 hours, 37 minutes and 20 seconds. This is Zagreb N1. So, at the same time, taking over the media service unchanged, etc., no changes and additions. Remember this photo. This is Belgrade. Is this at the same time a downloaded media service, no alterations and additions, at the same time, in the same second? This is Sarajevo. So the third kind of picture, etc. Does this look like taking over the media service at the same time, the same hour and the same second? Of course not, it's about fake cross-border channels over which Gilas and Solak pump money from Serbia's citizens' subscription, and that's why Solak drives a 50m-euro Falcon and some million-euro plane and hence proceeds to Dragan Gilasa of 619m euros during his public office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61317	Thank you, colleague Rističević. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 128 of the total of 144 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Proposal to merge the debate. National MP Maja Gojkovic, pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 157(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the first joint review be carried out on: the draft law amending and supplementing the law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2019, which was submitted by the Government; the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Budgetary System, which was submitted by the Government; the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Value Added Tax, which was submitted by the Government. Another joint principled search on: the draft law on state aid control, the draft law on accounting, the draft law on audit, which was also submitted by the Government. The third joint principled search on: the draft law amending and supplementing the Deposit Insurance Act, the draft law on open investment funds with a public offering, which was submitted by the Government and the draft law on alternative investment funds, which was also submitted by the Government. Does the MP, Maja Gojkovic, want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that for – 129, no one, with abstentions, has voted for 15 MPs from the total of 144 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Since we have agreed on proposals to supplement the proposed agenda and on a proposal to merge the debate, pursuant to Article 93(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote a draft agenda in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 131 against – no one, with abstention – voted 11 of the total of 142 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the second session of the regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019 in general. Dn n e d d: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2019, which was submitted by the Government; Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Budgetary System, which was submitted by the Government; 3. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax, submitted by the Government; 4. Proposal for a State Aid Control Act, submitted by the Government; 5. Proposal for a law on accounting, submitted by the Government; 6. Proposal for a law on audit, submitted by the Government; 7. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Deposit Insurance Act, submitted by the Government; 8. Proposal for a law on open investment funds with a public offering submitted by the Government; 9. A bill on alternative investment funds submitted by the government. We are going to work on the established agenda of the session. Notification of the invited to the session. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that all members of the Government, Jelena Tanaskovic and Slavica Savičić, State Secretarys at the Ministry of Finance, Dragan Demirović and Darko Komnenic, Executive Assistant Minister of Finance, Milesa Marjanović, Head of Finance Ministry, Vera Radojčić Savatović, Ivan Prvulović, Olivera Ružić Poparić and Irena Injac, Senior Advisors at the Ministry of Finance, Dunja Tepavac, Assistant at the Ministry of Finance and Luka Tomic, Head of the Office of Finance. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to conduct a joint principle search on drafts of the agenda under points 1, 2 and 3 and before the opening of a joint principled search, I remind you to comply with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly total time of debate in principle for parliamentary groups shall be five hours, and this time shall be allocated to parliamentary groups with a proportion of MPs, members of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs, Article 96(4). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. According to Article 157(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint and principled search on: Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2019; Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Budgetary System and Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax. Dear People's MPs, now in agreement with Article 90(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall inform you that pursuant to Article 101(4) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Rules of Procedure, I'm terminating the work of this session. In accordance with Article 101(5), Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that the Second Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019 will continue immediately after the twenty-sixth special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly, which will begin in a few minutes, and please remain in the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61318	Dear ladies and gentlemen, we continue to work on the principle of a review on the draft amending and supplementing law on the 2019 budget of the Republic of Serbia, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Budgetary System and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax. I'd like to welcome Minister Sinisha Mal and his team. Welcome, Minister. Do the representatives of the motionor want a word? Mr. Sinisha Mali has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61319	Thank you very much. The Honorable Chairman of the National Assembly, the honourable MPs, today you have three very important laws under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Finance. These are the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2019, the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Budgetary System and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on value added tax. When it comes to budget rebalancing for 2019, we have proposed its changes, above all, thanks to the excellent state of the state register, i.e. thanks to the surplus that we have achieved in the budget in the first eight months of this year. This is the first time in five years we've done rebalancing, and that's a positive rebalancing, because of the extra income, and not because of the lack of income, as some of us have done before. We have been through difficult but necessary reforms, but through reforms we have achieved the conditions to talk today about this positive budget rebalancing. I'll remind you that in the first eight months of this year we have a surplus of 46.6 billion dinars. This excess money with this rebalancing we want to distribute by priority, above all, to raise wages in the public sector, then, to pay off the single aid to pensioners, to help citizens who were in charge of the Swiss francs, as well as to capital investments. Now I'm going to give you some important macroeconomic data, which, among other things, allows us to talk today about a positive budget rebalancing. In July of this year, the rate of economic growth was 4.4%, the unemployment rate at the end of the second quarter of this year was 10.3% and was more than halved compared to 2013, when it was 25.9%. Also, as a result of low inflationary pressures, inflation has been at a low level since the beginning of the year, with only 2.2% for the January-July period. I'll remind you that inflation in 2011, so not before 15, 20, but only seven, eight years ago, was 11%. When it comes to public debt, it is constantly shrinking. At the end of August, it was 51.9% of GDP. I'll also remind you in this case that only a few years ago, public debt amounted to over 70% of GDP, and now, thanks to good fiscal results, it's about 50%. Also, the cost of borrowing, the costs of our public debt are lower. The average weighted interest rate on total portfolio debt was 3.4% today, in 2016 it was 4.5%. That speaks enough of how we have regained our trust in our country in just a few years as long as the fiscal consolidation process has lasted. Foreign direct investment reached 2.3 billion euros in the first seven months of this year, even 43% more than in the same period last year. Also last year, we attracted 3.5 billion euros of foreign and direct investment, which is more than all countries in the region combined. Good results were also confirmed by the world-renowned Financial Times newspaper, which for the second time declared Serbia a world leader, so number one in the world in attracting foreign direct investment. They suggest that we attract almost 12 times more foreign investment than other economies of similar size. The reason they see it in, quote, smart, stimulating and tax policy, economic reforms and favourable trade agreements with the East and the West. The end of the quote. Our good results are confirmed by one of the three largest rating agencies in the world "Fitch ratings". Last week, the agency increased our country's credit rating from BB to BB plus, which is another confirmation of successful reforms conducted in our country. Just a few weeks before that, another rating agency "Mudis" improved its outlook to increase the rating from stable to positive. The first rating of the "Mudis" rating was given to Serbia only in 2013, which speaks enough about the results and neglect of previous authorities, as well as the financial situation at the time. The third rating agency "S&P" improved the outlook to increase the rating in December of last year from stable to positive, and by the end of the year we can expect further progress in the assessment by the agency. I will remind you, in 2012, the same agency, which is today talking about improving the credit rating of the Republic of Serbia, reduced Serbia's rating from BB to BB minus. So credit rating agencies are the most objective indicator and their report on the state of public finances, and as you can see, in all three of us, we advance year by year and I hope that the next step will be our country's investment rating. Investment rating, of course, means even more foreign investment, even more employment, even more money in the budget, so the overall progress of our economy. I will also remind you that in September of this year we increased the minimum labour price from 27,022 dinars to 30,022 dinars, which is 172,5 dinars per hour and which is an increase of 11.1%. This is, by the way, the biggest increase in the minimum labour price in absolute terms ever and speaks enough about our intention to improve the quality of life of citizens in the shorter period of time. I will remind you, in 2011, the minimum labour price, i.e. the minimum earnings, was 17,000 dinars. So now it's 13,000 dinars bigger than it was just a few years ago. Thanks to favourable economic and economic developments, we also expect the average earnings in Serbia to reach and reach 500 euros in December this year. This is still low for us and we will work hard, we will work hard, that the trend of increasing the average profit in our country continues and in the years ahead, but the reminders for 2012 the average salary in Serbia was around 360 euros. I would like to point out that none of the above would be possible if the President of the Republic, Aleksandar Vukic, had not started a serious and courageous fiscal consolidation programme in 2014. Reforms launched in autumn 2014 were necessary to implement the programme successfully. An extremely high fiscal deficit between 2012 and 2014, the accelerated growth of public debt, the negative growth rates of our economy require decisive fiscal consolidation measures, and the results of these measures are for Serbian citizens to see today. This positive budget rebalance is the result of these difficult measures that instead of negative growth rates, deficits, high public debt, we are talking about having 46.6 billion dinars in the budget in the first eight months, and that we want to distribute that surplus in a way that we can raise the quality of life and living standards through the increase in wages and pensions, and on the other hand to invest even more money in the continued construction and construction of infrastructure in our country. So, just a few years later, Serbia has been moving ahead unstoppablely since the start of reforms. We have good results that are confirmed by a large number of international financial institutions, and our obligation is to continue at an even stronger pace. It is precisely thanks to these good results and thanks to the money and surplus that we have achieved this year that we can ensure an increase in salaries for public sector employees, starting from 1 November of this year for a salary already paid in December. The increase will go from eight to 15%, on average 9.6%, and I want to remind you that this year's increase was 8% and 8.6% for last year. So, for the third year in a row, we have an increase in public sector wages, a significant increase in public sector wages, which speaks of the government's intention to raise the quality and standards of people working in this sector so that the quality of their services, therefore both in health and in education and in other services, is even better and greater. The nurses will receive the highest increase of 15%, followed by doctors with 10, cultural institutions also with 10%, employees in education and preschool with 9%, as well as employees in social protection institutions, the Ministry of Customs, Taxes, etc. These percentages are just in the draft amending and supplementing law on the budgetary system, while the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2019 gives the money needed for the above-mentioned increases. Our intention is to maintain quality housing in the public sector, and in order for citizens to have better quality health care, education, social protection. As a country, we are especially fighting for the stay of nurses and doctors in the country, so we are investing a billion euros in health infrastructure, above all, in hospitals and clinical centres. If you, honourable MPs, vote for the proposed amendments to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2019, one-time aid will be granted to the state for pensioners, amounting to 5,000 dinars. For this purpose, 8.5 billion dinars will be allocated from the budget, and this assistance should be paid about December 1st this year. After that, as early as January 1st, pension increases for our oldest citizens, by so-called the Swiss formula relating to wage growth and inflation rates and taking into account a period of 12 months. We expect, at this point, based on these indicators, that this increase from January 1st will be between 5.1% and 5.5%. To take the opportunity to thank our oldest citizens, our pensioners, for the burden of the reforms they have endured. I said earlier in my address, it was difficult in 2014, but these were the necessary measures that brought us here today, which is to talk about surpluses in the budget and the increase in wages and pensions for the third year in a row. The budget rebalance also includes allocations for debtors in Swiss francs, which was not planned in the original Budget Law, but what do we have money for today? As you know, over 90% of the debtors have accepted conversion, exactly 15,734 of them. Although in recent days we have been able to hear criticisms about raising money for these citizens, fortunately, we think differently from those who criticise. We didn't want to ignore people who strike hunger out of despair and impotence. The previous government had just motivated these citizens to take loans in Swiss francs, which was completely irresponsible on their part. We have, given the money we have saved, decided to sort out this problem and this is a solution and the state will to this end allocate the money that is precisely in this positive budget rebalancing. Also, given that we are moving towards the realisation of the investment plan and that our absolute priority is to build highways, and I will remind you that for the last five years we have built almost 300 kilometers of brand new highways, only in 2018, 103,3 kilometers of highways. By the end of the year, we are also going to realize the so-called. Moravia corridor, an important traffic station, an important highway connecting Corridor 10 and Corridor 11. This highway will be a length of 112 kilometers, and for the purpose of its construction, the start of its construction in budget rebalancing has been set aside by 14 billion dinars. With the budget rebalancing, we also allocate money for Preljina shares – Požega 550 million dinars, Obrenovac – Lig five billion dinars, the highway Belgrade – Sarajevo 1.4 billion dinars, Ruma – Šabac – Loznica 500 million dinars, as well as for rehabilitation of roads that we will implement through the Public Enterprise Roads of Serbia, amounting to 2.5 billion dinars of additional funds. We want to move on at a stronger pace. The new roads bring new investments, new jobs, increasing standards, making our rates grow our economies more and therefore, in the 2020 budget and in the coming years, we will increase the level of money for capital investments. Dear Members, today you are also facing the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Value Added Tax, which provides for the release of VAT for highways for which construction, by special law, is found to be of public interest. In addition, the proposed changes also include a reduction in the amount by which foreign passengers can exercise the right to return VAT from 100 euros to 6,000 dinars, i.e. to double the amount. There are also certain changes concerning compliance with EU rules, the precision of how to tax vouchers, the accuracy of the rules relating to food and drink consumption services on ships, trains and aircraft, as well as other changes in terms of the precision of certain legal provisions which have created doubt in practice and certain administrative reliefs for taxpayers. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I hope you recognize the importance of these three laws before you today. I'd figure it out the next way. We have a historic chance. At this point, after four years of difficult financial consolidation, our public finances are completely stable. This budget rebalance speaks in favour of it. A surplus of 46.6 billion dinars, and that third year in a row, is a huge thing for our country. We want this money that we have earned and saved to share where we think it is most needed, in this case, to increase wages, to increase pensions, but you see our strategy and vision – even more money goes to capital investment, new highways, rehabilitation of roads, railways and everything that raises and the growth rate of our economy, the quality of infrastructure, and thus attracts new investments and enables new jobs to be created. I hope you recognize the importance of these laws. I remain available for any question you may have regarding these laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61320	Thank you, Minister, Dr. Mali. Now they have the word of the committees, if they want to. Does anyone sign up for a word? The word is Mr. Marjan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61321	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as chairman of the Committee on Agriculture under the authority of the Committee, I would like to say something about budget rebalancing. We who remember a little longer certainly remember in 2012. The same state, a larger number of residents, and thus a larger number of taxpayers. Incomes 750 billion, exchange rate 117 and something. So the same rate, same state, more taxpayers in 2012, revenues 750 billion, expenditures 890, deficit 140 billion or almost 20% of income. It's the state we found. Today in Serbia, with a smaller population of 1,299 billion. The difference is 540 billion. That's 4.5 billion euros. So, this government collects at the same tax rate in the same country from a smaller number of taxpayers 4.5 billion euros higher. Now we all have to ask ourselves, where did the 4.5 billion go during the rule of the yellow cockroaches? Where did that money go when it didn't get into the state register? That same year, the agricultural budget was 22 billion, but it seems to me that the Ministry of Agriculture was with trade, if I remember correctly, the maltenes were two ministries, subsidies were at the same rate as 19 billion, subsidies in agriculture. Today the agricultural budget is 54 billion alone, and the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management no longer has trade attached to the ministry. So that's an increase of 2.5 times. The subsidies were 19 billion in agriculture, and now they are 43 billion and 711 million. So it's more like 24.5 billion at the same rate. So 24.5 billion is more subsidies in agriculture and I'm saying this because of yellow cockroaches that sometimes have their own representative here who claim that it was better to have been 19 billion than 43 billion and 711 million. The agricultural budget is now 54 billion. He only grew by rebalance by 2.9 billion. With only this year's rebalancing from budget to budget rebalancing, agriculture has received 2.1 billion more for subsidies. I want to thank you because the Ministry of Finance recognized the aspirations, not only of my own, but of all the members of the Committee, that the subsidies in agriculture are bigger, and we are asking that it be increased next year, because we think that this is not a waste of money. The money invested in agriculture and the economy returns. Money's a commodity. By producing as much goods as possible, and above all, I think we should throw the accent into livestock, and that is what we in agriculture should define, the Ministry of Finance and the Government of the Republic of Serbia if they make more money for agriculture, and even the processing industry, our budget will be getting richer and richer. The fact that our incomes are higher is not just proof of the government's ability. This also proves the government's ability to count the government's ability to attract investment, because a country without investment is a car without fuel. A country without economy, and an economy can't do without investment, something has to feed it, is a car that has no engine, no gearbox, and if you don't have an economy, that car can only go downhill. If you don't have an investment, you have nothing to invest, which energy in the engine in the economy, then you can't expect to have a richer budget, and these yellow unfortunates have ruined the budget because they've previously ruined the country's economy and the country's economy and had nothing more to take from it, because they've only funded themselves with loans and hence that hole that was 140 billion, their deficit, at the revenues of 750 billion. Sometimes they should commend the government, this government and government before this government, because it ripped the country out of the crisis and made it possible for us to export the goods, to get the money, and so to spend in Serbia, and the biggest tax revenues to make the poor and medium-sized people, because buying goods, paying taxes, all previous taxes are accounted for, that means that the consumer power of our population has grown, that ordinary people have more and more money, and not just tycoons, the tycoon money is out there somewhere. The money of ordinary people is spent on self-services. That's how incomes grow. I believe that the government will continue to pay attention to the money we earn to earn first, to invest as much in agriculture and economy as possible, and to make money and to share as fair as possible to the ordinary population. That's how our budget's revenue is going to grow in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61322	Thank you, colleague Rističević. The word now has the rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds, President Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go, Mrs. Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61323	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, fellow MPs, yesterday we had opportunities almost in a four-hour discussion to talk to the representatives of the Fiscal Council about these topics which today are the points of the agenda, which relate to budget rebalancing in 2019. At their assessment, which they normally issue and with the budget itself, according to that assessment issued practically everything that is going to meet Serbian citizens and solve problems simply economically is not sustainable and is not right. It is unwarranted by their assessment and giving and solving problems with the Swiss francs, and it is unwarranted to give 5,000 dinars as a one-time fee to pensioners, it is unwarranted to increase wages and pensions. The only thing justified is giving and resolving the question of court dispute fees and the part relating to infrastructure. Members of the ruling coalition simply tried to explain the support of such a rebalancing precisely because we inherited many problems in society in which we cannot close our eyes to the citizens of Serbia that they do not exist, as there are no problems with the Swiss francs, so we also set an example that European countries, such as Hungary, have solved the problems of saving in the Swiss francs, i.e. loans also from their budgets. If countries that are much more developed in a certain way had to solve these problems, we are now at a moment when we can essentially do it, because we have a surplus, we have solved as a state to help these people in some way, not to create new social cases from those who simply started their new life many years ago through certain loans, which they raised in Swiss francs, which the state in a certain way forced. I think the issue of wages and pensions is of great importance to all of us at this point that this very surplus that we have already had for the fourth year has been shared with citizens of Serbia, i.e. the results that the Ministry of Finance and which the Government of Serbia in co-operation with the president of the country has carried out after the difficult economic reforms, and the results that we have now considered necessary and we support that it really needs to be shared with the citizens of Serbia. Whether it's a good model, whether it should have been done differently, we can talk about it, but obviously there is no, on the other hand, anyone who would have talked in that way on the part of the economists to support at all an increase in wages and pensions and every time you increased, last year and before last year, we've always come across these criticisms. Normally, it is always better to invest everything in infrastructure and everything in projects, but you know, Serbian citizens are looking for results. They simply demand to see that they are making progress with their monthly incomes and with their particular life when it comes to spending and we think that at this point it is a good solution. It's the Fiscal Council's residence that's not economically sustainable. However, if you are planning a national investment plan of over 12 billion dinars, it means that you have a certain vision of the state's income being much higher and that when you are preparing for such an investment plan of some four years, that means that the proceeds in the announcement are safe for 2020, which is why we actually have this budget rebalance with an increase in wages and pensions. That's why we really had a constructive discussion on the Committee. We have expressed our opinions, the results that we are also following as MPs, but also what follows the Fiscal Council, and somewhere we have really come to these predictions that are always conservative, strict, they do not always have to be, and they are the ones that as a professional body should be conservative and strict, but we are here who really need to support what the Ministry of Finance is certainly doing well for its citizens of Serbia. This is why we supported the Committee's proposal to rebalance the budget with these legal solutions when it comes to both VAT and other taxes and the Law and amendments and additions to the budget system, because it is currently predicting an increase in wages in the public sector. Indeed what we had the opportunity to hear from you, it is that a certain increase is expected in the following year and how much budget it will allow. Thank you, indeed, for this explanation that you have given through the work of the ministry and that you have had at the end both with us and with your associates who have had opportunities on the Committee on Finance on several occasions and at sessions outside the seat to be present and to prepare us for this session in plenary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61324	Thank you, Dr. Tomic. Before we move on to the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, I would like to inform you, according to Article 27 and Articles 87 and 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, that the National Assembly will work today after 1800 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to pass laws on the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Now the word has Mr. Dragan Markovic. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61325	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the United Serbia will support the draft Budget and Budget Rebalance Act. What's a budget rebalance for ordinary people who don't deal with finance? The budget rebalancing is when you have a larger catchment area than the excellent side and when you want that money from the citizens of Serbia to return it to the citizens of Serbia. I think Minister Mali is doing his job well, given what ambience he holds in a very stable course of dinars, that during this time period, this year more investment was in Serbia than in earlier years, all the time while Serbia is fighting for the territory they want to take from us KIM, when some major economic forces are angry with Serbia why Serbia has made economic co-operation with China, to resent us. This large number of Serbian citizens do not know, and they resent us because we want economic Serbia to strengthen. When you strengthen the economy, then they can't do what they want with you as they did in earlier years. I won't talk about individual rating lists, but I can say that all the rating lists that the Ministry of Finance estimates, namely stability and the economic power of a country, on all these world lists, Serbia has progressed and is located even above some countries that were economically powerful for Serbia five years ago. What's most important? The most important thing is that this surplus is not from sold factories and businesses, as we could see 10 years ago and 12, when some of the prime ministers at the time showed that the government had a major surplus, and that surplus was from sold factories, businesses and so on. They sold what would be most powerful for the Serbian state budget, tobacco factories, cement factories and these factories are now doing very well and doing business. They left those factories that failed, which do not have a market, and those factories lost market because they had competition where individuals at the time, something produced in Serbia, imported into Serbia, and made such tenders where our large factories that employed 1,000 and 2,000 workers did not have a bonus to go to the tender. That's not what's going on today. Today is a surplus of original income, which is very important. So, from the original incomes, not from something Serbia sold and no longer owns a factory or company. You've had a very difficult year, because if we look at what a small handful of people, I mean the opposition, criticise on the street, and draw attention to some countries that don't like Serbia, they can't wait for someone to say something about their rights, the media blockade. If it's a media blockade, where they're here today in the Assembly, they're talking about the budget and criticizing Minister Malloy. Then they gave themselves the right to block the rectory. Where is it, in which country in the world, to block the Rectorate and that student and one student play how they are "one out of five million". I've always supported students, but this time, they're wrong and can't deal with politics. It's been a long time since young people have been abused. It would make sense for me that these young people are fighting for their rights, having more deadlines for exams, saying -- where we're going to work after, when we finish colleges or high school, etc. I really want to congratulate you on your efforts and your work and the environment you worked in, you gave a very high score. What the opposition does and criticises is that it's black in Serbia, reminds me of last night's result in Bajern-Totenhem football. Byerne won 7:2 and they say -- you know what, not a good judge, they watched bought counterfeit tickets, because they constantly complain about the voter lists etc. It's that quality and quantity relationship, that I don't do some old history. Last night, we were able to see the score in the Champions League as they went to football, Totenhem of Byern. What else is important? That minimum earnings are growing in Serbia. It's not enough, but it's growing and it can never fall again. If we look at the continuity of budget growth and surplus growth year after year, then those who had 300 and a few euros just a few years ago will have an average salary of 500 euros very quickly. Someone's gonna say it's not that big of a purchasing power. It's a huge purchasing power, if you started, not from zero, from -200 you started and from -200 to increase something that will be useful to all citizens and employees. This surplus and time, if we look at 2019 and 2018, where these money went, highways were built, clinical centres, schools, kindergartens, hall sports etc. So there's no segment, no area or activity in our society without the state investing. Speaking of highways, it can be reached much faster across northern Macedonia to Greece, and here are several new open highways, making more highways in Serbia. Those who criticize the construction of highways, you have no idea about life. It's not about someone from Svrlig or Koncharev from my village, he says - so when am I going to take that highway, etc. But we became a transit country, when you're a transit country then you're more full of the budget, then those who haven't been through Serbia for years say they can't recognize Serbia in a visual way and when it comes to security and on the highway and all that our police are doing. When you look at all that, it's a huge result. You see, Minister, I'm going to show you now just to find the ratings of TV ratings in Serbia. In this time period it's called real time, if the camera can just catch, I don't know which one. For example, today, our session looks at 1.9 sher or percent, whatever we call it, it's in this time period. The most watched television right now, I'm not going to say which, there are 16 shervas, one has 15.6, the next 7.3. Why did I say this? They are angry, they say -- well, the ministers abuse their resors, so they take a lot of pictures, so they talk a lot, so where they'll hear the citizens, but you have to talk if this parliament is destroyed, not because of us sitting here, because of some who don't sit in this House and receive salaries. So no one's alive looking except for the one who's tied to the bed, can get out of the room, so see Little, Palm, or Natasha Jovanovic from Kragujevac, so let's talk about something as good as we do, etc. So, you have to explain to the citizens, it has never been more transparent of what you ministers are doing, especially Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic, to forbid you in an election campaign to talk about what you're doing. Last night I saw a politician, he was the president of Serbia, who admitted that he was doing the same. But now he says that's what someone else is saying. It's no shame to show what you're doing, but it's a shame to pour mud in front of the Belgrade City Assembly, we're sending an ugly picture into the world. Once, Minister, I don't know if you remember, a few years ago when it wasn't this government, farmers brought milk and poured milk before the institutions of local self-government, government, Ministry of Finance and so on. There's no such thing today. Why? Not because they love you, but because they are higher subsidies, because they are given a certain percentage for the purchase of agricultural machinery, because they already slowly know who their safe buyer is and what it is called the price of agricultural producers. So it's very difficult under the circumstances where you work to achieve one of these high results. I must say that the result in finance and economics depends on politics, that the stay in America, President Alexander Vukic and Ivica Dacic, has produced great results. You can't see that today, tomorrow and the day after. But they met there with people who decide the whole world not only about Serbia. What else is most important? We can't say now - no matter what Germany, it won't withdraw recognition of Kosovo's independence and Metohija, France, that's where your friends are, so I know, but our friends today at German factories in Serbia are doing 60,000 people, so in time wages, they may not be like in Germany, but they're paying for contributions, so they pay for electricity, so they pay for gas, all their obligations calm down in time. I felt it, I brought in 12 factories in Jagodin, five gigans from factories that export around the world, have a huge market, and for the fourth year and I, as much as you do, have surpluses in my budget, so there's more exports than imports. It's good for everyone, both the state and those employees, etc. When there were some factories in Nis, they criticized how they put Pampers there, because they didn't give the director and the owner to go to the bathroom. That's what some opposition people did, because during the time they were, these people didn't even go to the bathroom, because they didn't eat anything, you know, they didn't have the money to buy what was basic to the family. They wanted to destroy everything that is foreign investment in Serbia, how bad it is. The state of Serbia also grants domestic investors subsidies. Of course, you have to have a program, you have to have that program in today's time and have a vision of two, three years of economic profitability, a feasibility study, and when you have it all, you get a subsidy like other factories, maybe a little bit bigger. Today, the biggest problem is the market. When you have a market then and a century of that factory, that company, that individual will be longer and will be good for both factory workers and all businesses. I don't drink water, I don't need water, thank you. I mean, I drink, but I don't drink during speech. Now that I say I don't drink water, the citizens will say, he's just drinking wine, etc., and I'm drinking coke. Since I'm about it, bring the ministers so we can drink too, let's not hide, here's what Jole hides in the drawer, although Ghole advertises "Aqua Viva". How much, Jole, do you have a percentage for Aqua Viva? Free of charge. Let's have a little fun. You know, it's not politics, it's just me looking at some politicians, so it's getting avoided, so they're yelling like wounded bears, hey buddy, they can't just increase their tone to neutralize and hide something called a positive. So, Minister, I can say for myself that I understand myself a little bit in the budgets and I understand what the priority is, I have a vision, because the vision today is not intuition, the vision is experience. When you have a vision, you have to see where you live on a map, what your countries are around and what your neighbors are like. When we look to move faster than our neighbors... So why does Croatia keep attacking us? As a member of the EU, they have a much smaller, or much smaller development than we do. Now we're going to have more highways than they are, they don't have a rating on lists like Serbia and they're always paying attention to us from 20, 30 years ago, they want to slow down our economic growth. Our economic growth can't slow down either the NATO Pact, and that it wants it can't, and first and foremost what Serbia has shown and its leadership doesn't want to fight, that we want to go to a round table to solve issues, what it is open to us to close, but to ask the EU and tell them that these chapters we opened, I was the first advocate to form a pro-European government. What we mean by these chapters that we have opened and that they stand open, let them be closed and that we have adopted European laws we are still on a list, as we expect to enter the EU in 2025, some have promised us, and they say – wait, the EU must first experience reforms within the EU, etc. Why did I say this, Minister? Because you're working as if we're never going to join the EU, and we're ready to be accepted in economic terms tomorrow. Not to depend on donors, VOKs, these, those, as America bombed, Serbia's chief initiator, and then through the VOK, they've been petting our eyes that they're the greatest benefactors, etc. Thank them for giving us, but it's just something that we can never forget, this NATO aggression, we have to move on, work together with the states. What else is the most important? That countries that have recognised independent Kosovo, EU members, regret what they have done, because then there was great pressure, so we have Zeman, the president of the Czech Republic who said -- here, that I decide I would immediately withdraw recognition of Kosovo's independence and Metohija. So far, 15 countries have withdrawn, because these 15 countries, the minimum of 12 countries, their citizens have no idea where Serbia is, but when diplomatically explain to them what we've been through, which is why they bombed us, etc. It will now be easier to go and will very soon withdraw recognition of many more states, so that Kosovo Albanians can guard the Serb who sends a political message to Albanian that Albanians are voting for him. Do you know when Albanians will vote for a Serb in Kosovo and Metohija? Never. Albanians homogenize, they deliberately argue that each one withdraws a number of Albanian votes, but when it comes to the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, they are unique about it, and we Serbs are not because we have individuals who live and work in Kosovo and Metohija and make a video in Albanian. What does that mean? And some politicians who have failed. During the time they were, especially some there, not to speak their names, they all know. Well, why didn't you do it when you were? So how many Serbs received money while you were in power, so how was it when you were in charge of those Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija? Today it is also built in Kosovo and Metohija and it is real and the money is going for purpose. If they're given for the building, there's a building, if they're given for the road, there's a road. So they criticize and say, "Behold, you are making a way towards Albania, who will go to Albania?" They have no idea who's saying that. Today, every truck driver is the most important place to cut, I don't know, ten, 15 kilometers, how much less fuel he's going to spend, to keep something in his pocket and that owner's, because the transport in the calculation is the main dependent cost, when you look at how much in the calculation there is in those positions when it comes to dependent costs. When we look at all this, who is criticizing us and who is praising us, those who are criticizing us until recently are making a problem for Serbia. For example, here, McCron, he spoke very well, but he said – the judiciary has to solve the problem, media freedoms. Well, come on, Mr. McCron, who are they in yellow vests? Are those volcanoes with you walking? So they're walking with you, and they're walking ten times more based on the number of residents in France than they do in Serbia. He spoke well, good for his ear, it's nice and it's good for him, but history doesn't live. It's like "Star" talking today -- we were the champions of Europe. So if you don't get a high score again. I'm saying this for myself, I'm not speaking for the government, I'm not a member of the government, and I voted for you, and I voted only for you, because it was an individual vote, and I didn't make a mistake. The one before you who was, he didn't know where the left was. He was an ordinary theorist and only he knew, he learned a song and now as an expert on economics to sing in parliament, instead of resisting arguments, facts, what it has been since he took over the portfolio. Mr. Minister, you have something to brag about. The Single Serbia political party will vote in favour of this bill, and I hope not from year to year, from month to month it will be better for the citizens of Serbia and that the citizens of Serbia feel it, perhaps not by the measure they want, but hope is always important and must not lose hope in themselves, because there is one song, sings Betula – difficult for me without me. Now, they can interpret it in a number of ways, but it's hard for Serbian citizens without this majority who knows what they want and knows what they don't want, and what they won't -- not to hurt Serbian citizens. Thank you very much. A single Serbia will vote for the proposed law.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61326	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. The word has a minister, Dr. Sinisha Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61327	Mr. Markovic, thank you very much for your presentation. I would like to look back on one of the very important things that you have mentioned, so that the citizens of Serbia can hear again. So, relative to the 2019 budget, this budget rebalance is due to tax revenues that are higher by 32.9 billion and 3.1%, respectively, and non-tax revenues that are higher by 12.7 billion, or 7.3%, compared to the original budget. So we have a surplus based on sustainable income, so not on one-off inflows, or as you said - by selling some factories, but on what our consumption is growing and also on business activity. What can I do to support that? The income tax increased from the budget plan by 6.6 billion and 10.7%, respectively. This is due to more favourable labour market movements. The value added tax increased by 6.1 billion compared to the amount foreseen in the 2019 budget, which is of course due to the faster growth of our economy. Excise revenues have increased compared to the amount planned for the 2019 budget, by 9.8 billion. Profit tax revenues increased by 9.3 billion compared to the amount planned for the 2019 budget, which suggests that the profitability of enterprises operating in the Republic of Serbia is also higher. Non-tax revenues were also increased compared to the amount planned by the 2019 budget by 12.7 billion dinars. So here we are talking about a sustainable increase in tax revenues, so all those sources of funding that are the main sources of funding for one state's budget, including ours. That is why we have also suggested that we distribute such increased income to raise wages, raise pensions, but even more and more on the continuation of the investment cycle so that we have even more taxes in the coming period, even more income and more contributions, and thus encourage the development of our economy and in a sustainable way enable the growth of the standard of living of Serbian citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61328	Thank you, Minister Mali. The word has been made by MP Zoltan Peck. Here you go, Mr. Peck.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61329	Thank you. Dear Vice President, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, I will make the views of the Parliamentary Group of the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians by two laws, and the Law on the Budgetary System and the Budget Law, or so on. The rebalancing. I'll start with the Budget System Act first. The law itself in Article 2 of the applicable law complements the definition of a record account. This definition was not put into force by law, and now this definition of a record account is being set up within the framework of the local authorities' budget implementation system. The second is the paper – it has been authorised by the finance minister to give instructions for the conversion of dinars into currencies in the international financial market for the arrival of the bonds of the Republic of Serbia. It's the same newspaper. Then the procedure for adopting the financial strategy itself is specified. So far, this financial strategy has come to this feast, and now it's going to the board of the National Assembly, and that's where it's being considered and then adopted here in this house. The deadlines have been extended to 2021. The deadline has been extended for the application of the provisions of this law, the Budgetary System Act, to 2021 relating to programming budgets, and to the programme budgets of health institutions and pharmacies institutions. The same deadline has been moved by 2021 to introduce gender-responsible budgeting for all budget beneficiaries at all levels of government. So these two places have an extended deadline for 2021. One of the most important changes is, as the minister also said, the increase in salaries in the public sector and this increase in wages from 8% to 15% is a gap, on average 9.6%, and concerns November's salary, which is paid in December. I'd like to say taxing is an increase. For MUP workers, the BIA and the Ministry of Defence have increased 9%. For Constitutional Court workers, courts, prosecutors and the Criminal Penalty Office, the same 9%. In higher education institutions workers of primary and secondary education and institutions of student standard and student standard by 9%. The researchers for 10%. The workers of the culture institutions for 10%. Preschool workers by 9%. For workers, social protection institutions, except health workers, by 9%. For other users, the funds of the Republic of Serbia's budget by 8%. For beneficiaries of local government budgets by 8%. For employees of a mandatory social security organisation, except for the Social Insurance Fund for military taxpayers by 8%. For healthcare professionals, doctors for 10%, nurses for 15% and other non-medical staff for 8%. As for more significant changes in this law, another important change that has not been highlighted here -- the deadline has been extended for another year, so for December 2020, the ban on employment by public funds users. Another significant change in this law is that it proposes to delete a special fiscal rule relating to pension indexation. Given that in 2020, pensions will be harmonised in a manner prescribed by a law governing pension and disability insurance. Now I'd like to move to another law, budget law and so on. The rebalancing. Here, as Mr. Minister has already pointed out, we are talking about a positive budget rebalancing. The planned revenues were 1,246 billion dinars. With this rebalance, this amount has been revised to more than 3.7%, if we talk in dinars, it's, as Mr. Minister said, 46.6 billion dinars. So, about 50 billion dinars is the increased revenue side of our budget. If we look at the very structure of these revenues, the tax revenues are 1,092 billion dinars. That's about 84.5% of the income. No tax revenues are 185 billion dinars, which is 14.3% of total income, and the rest are donations of 14.8 billion dinars, which is 1.1% of total income. I should say our budget is balanced. The expenses are under control. It's one tendency that has characterized our financial system and our budget in the last four years. It's commendable anyway. We think we should keep this trend going. With this rebalancing we only spend what we've earned and nothing more. It's the same new trend in our financial plans, until now, which was not unfortunately how it turned out. So we're spending what we've earned and this is about 50 billion dinars, and with these 50 billion dinars, it's increased the spent side of our budget. Thirteen billion dinars have increased infrastructure projects under the construction, traffic and infrastructure ministry. Infrastructure investment growth is commendable. Modern and modern infrastructure is the main pillar of our economic development. Good roads to modern, modern railways, railway infrastructure will pull new investors and new jobs will be opened. With this rebalancing, some items have reduced expenditure in the construction and traffic ministry, and some items have increased. The expenditure has been reduced, and we think it is positive for the Hungarian-Serbian railway project, because by the end of the year this planned amount for this part of the job will not be implemented, so we don't think they should be standing there, moving to other purposes where it can be used. The rebalancing process also envisions an increase in the funds for the construction of works of the E-75 highway, which is the share of the border crossing "Celebia" – the "Sabotica Jug" loop of 330 million dinars. The amount of funds for the realisation of the construction of the highway E – 673, Obrenovac – Ljig stock has been increased. For the construction of highway E – 761, shares Pojate – Preljina. And, for the construction of the highway, as Mr. Minister said, Belgrade -- Sarajevo. An additional 10 billion dinars were added to the supply of equipment in the security sector. Another nine billion dinars were given to solve the credit problem in the Swiss francs under the law we passed in April of this year, the Law on the conversion of loans to Swiss francs, we think it's a good thing. About nine billion dinars were given for single aid to pensioners of 5,000.00 dinars. An additional nine billion dinars have been paid for interest payments that have been paid prematurely since the repayment of old loans, and I think that's the same thing to praise. Of course, we need to get rid of those loans that have been taken for large interest rates with insufficient or not the best conditions and we need to close them, these credit lines, the sooner the better. We think it's positive in this rebalancing. In the end, an additional two billion dinars are scheduled to increase wages in the public sector, as I have already detailed, who, where, how much pay increases will have. Unfortunately, we have come to such a situation that the professional workforce is leaving the public sector in the private sector, but I can also say, unfortunately, not only in the private sector is this outflow, but it is also outflow and abroad. So we currently have a labour market as an international labour market, at least it refers to the north of Vojvodina. Young experts are leaving us and we have come to the fact that not only young, but also middle-generation experts are going abroad. It has been delayed for years to introduce payment classes into the public sector. Perhaps it would be a principle or some kind of positive effect, perhaps bringing labour outages from the public sector to the private sector. In some ways, we have seen this and this principle may be established by increasing wages in health institutions. So doctors get 10%, nurses 15%, other staff 8%. It's kind of a pay grade principle. In the end, I would say that the parliamentary group of the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians will vote for these laws in voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61330	Thank you, Mr. Peck. Now the word has Mr. Ivan Bauer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61331	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers with co-workers, co-workers and fellow MPs, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the SDPS parliamentary group will support all laws on the agenda of the session. I will put my focus on the Change and Supplements Act for 2019, i.e. on budget rebalancing. When it comes to budget rebalancing, it is mostly seen through the prism of something negative because in the past the rebalancing was synonym for poor budget planning, i.e. for less revenue than expected, or projected in the budget or for excessive budget spending, and most often for both. This time, as usual, this is not an extortional measure, but this is the measure that results from the increase in revenue that we want to put into productive function as soon as possible. It's a matter of considerable means. As you said, Minister, at the end of August, we had a budget surplus of approximately 46.5 billion dinars, which is 60 billion more than what was projected. Such a surplus and surplus in recent years has been the result of leading responsible fiscal policy over the past seven years, and I would say first since 2014. To remind ourselves, in 2014, when Aleksandar Vukic became prime minister, we had a public debt that was over 70% of GDP. In 2008, he had a constant growth trajectory. From 2008 to 2012, it was doubled, and after 2012, it continued to grow by momentum because it increased interest allocations, since very expensive loans were taken. This trajectory is seriously fiscal measures, i.e. fiscal consolidation measures have been halted, i.e. its path has been reversed, and today we have a result that our public debt is equal to 51.9% of GDP, which is in the master's frameworks and has a further tendency to decrease, i.e. it is moving, i.e. converts to those values prescribed by the Budgetary System Act. One of the reasons why we had such a high level of public debt rate compared to GDP is the high budget deficits that we recorded until 2012, which culminated in the budget deficit of almost 7% in 2012. We've turned it around now, we've had a surplus in the budget for the last few years. We would have had it this year, of course, if we hadn't decided to use that surplus in some of the most productive way possible. Unemployment, as you said, in 2012 and 2013, was 25.9%, and we changed it thanks to employment measures, thanks to strong investment, which is due to incentives and thanks to the reduction in the gray zone and we today have a 10.3% unemployment rate in the second quarter of 2019. You've announced that next year that rate will fall below 10%, and I've been a little bit of an analysis of trends in the last five years that say the lowest unemployment rate in the third quarter is in this quarter, and I'm going to dare to be more optimistic than you, and I expect that, in the next report of the Republic Statistics Office, we'll record a single-digit unemployment rate. I don't remember when it was recorded. Inflation in 2012 was 12.2%. Now according to NBS, the annual inflation rate is 1.3%. We have a stable dinar course. We've got growing foreign reserves and not counting any further, and there's something else to count. So it's about very respectable results that give us the right to think seriously about relaxing fiscal policy. Now, someone might ask a question, though, it seems to me unwarranted, why it was important to go to budget rebalance when we could wait a month and a half for the 2020 draft budget to arrive and then define those funds in the 2020 budget, but why it is not good to do so, I think the clearest answers and most precisely give a small analysis showing how we spend the funds we saved in 2019. In the first place, we spend them on capital investments, which will certainly increase GDP growth already in 2019. Then we spend them on increasing expenditure based on the disbursement of bad loans, i.e. expensive loans, which affects the reduction of public debt, but also affects the reduction of interest allocations in the coming years, which in the coming years opens up a space for productive use of the surplus funds that we will achieve in this way. We've got one-time pensioners' help, pay raises. This contributes to the growth of aggregated demand, i.e. GDP growth this year. In the end, we have been solving the issue that has been going on for years, which is a question of loans in Swiss francs and we allot additional funding for financial support to families with children, which are measures that can, as well as any other measure to quantify them economically, but I would not quantify them economically because I think that the essence of these measures is to show the social responsibility of the state, and we as Social Democrats support such measures. So we could wait until 2020, and then we could use this surplus, but then we'd lose at least two and a half months, because we're going to adopt this in about ten days, and the 2020 budget is valid from 1 January. If we didn't talk about infrastructure projects, if we allocated funds to them only in the next budget, they'd practically... We'd lose six months, because we can continue them now, and that way we'd have to wait for the winter to pass because it's not working in winter, so we'd just start from the spring. So, the waste of time is great. Thus, the justification of the budget is more than clear. I would also like to look back with a few words and my thoughts about certain criticisms that have arisen in the public, that is, the opinions of certain economists who consider the measure of one-time assistance to pensioners to be unwarranted and that the increase in wages and pensions is too great. Of course, I don't agree with this for many reasons. First of all, I would like to point out that the position of critics relative to the position of decision-makers is dramatically different. It is far more “comfortable” in its office to carry out some macroeconomic examinations of the measures that someone proposes, to make some economic models that can and do not have to be 100% accurate, and it is a completely different position for someone who has a responsibility. Let us remind ourselves that in 2014, before the 2014 elections, the then prime minister's candidate sought support from citizens for fiscal consolidation measures that would affect those citizens. That's the support he's got, and he's implemented those measures. So, the responsibility of the current president, and then Prime Minister Vukic, the responsibility of the government of the current and responsibility of our MPs is great, because the greatest burden of fiscal consolidation has just been borne by citizens. These citizens have some expectations. They're expecting some light at the end of the tunnel that we promised. They expect an improvement for themselves and that our position is far more complex than the position I can say is comfortable in which you criticize from another plan. It's not easy to look into the eyes of people you promised and tell – you know, what we told you about living standards would grow, it was a fairy tale, we were joking a little bit, don't blame us. So it's not just a commitment taken, it's also a moral obligation to repay citizens who have been patient and patient all these years. If we are talking about the economic aspect of these measures, I cannot agree that there is an economic basis for these measures, because those who criticise us for these measures often criticise us and that we have insufficient GDP growth, i.e. there is room for greater GDP growth. Here, how do we achieve greater GDP growth in the given objective global conditions, to understand each other, and what does that have to do with salary increases, and what does it have to do with? To answer that question, let us look at the growth generators of gross domestic product - investment, state, or public consumption, net exports and private, or personal consumption. Investments in 2019 were made in the first eight months worth 2.4 billion euros. So, by 43% more than in the first eight months of 2018, which is an extraordinary result, especially when we consider the fact that the largest source of our foreign direct investment is the EU, which is on the threshold of recession. And let us be sure that EU investors think twice about such conditions whether they will invest, especially whether they will invest in a non-EU country. This strong investment growth has a number of positive effects, from employment growth, i.e. decreases in the unemployment rate, to a rise in consumption, to an increase in exports, as this is most often about export-oriented companies. So strong investment growth means accelerated GDP growth. In this budget rebalancing, we propose 20 billion dinars more for the state's capital investments. The minister announced that the country's capital investment level will reach 4.4% in the coming year. So, by increasing the level of capital investment, or their participation in GDP, we are speeding up GDP growth, both in this year and in the coming years. When it comes to net exports, this year we record a slightly lower result, or we have a negative balance growth, when it comes to external trade balances and current account balances, which are fully covered by foreign direct investment. This is the consequence, on the one hand, of stronger imports of repromation, investment goods, which is expected and I believe will result in future export growth, which will compensate for this import growth, and on the other hand to numerous international factors in which we cannot in any way influence. For example, reducing growth, or slowing down growth in the euro area. And what's worse for us is that it's driven by a reduction in private consumption. So, what we're interested in. Private consumption is falling into the EU. And even worse than that, the biggest drop in GDP, driven by the reduction of personal consumption, has our two main foreign trade partners in the EU, which is Germany and Italy. Taking into account the fact that two-thirds of our foreign trade exchange with the EU, it is clear that these conditions, very unfavourable conditions, which we have no influence on, have negatively affected our exports, or have slowed down its growth. Furthermore, we had one shock that we could not influence, which is one completely irrational decision by the provisional authorities in Pristina to introduce taxes that are practically the same as the ban on exporting our products to the Kosovo and Metohija markets, contrary to all possible international agreements, which, of course, reflected negatively on our exports, because it is drastically reduced because of that. We have an increase in oil prices on the world market, which is again the opposite of the IMF projections, which this year predicted that oil prices would drop by about 4%, and it happened the other way around. When we add to this an increased domestic demand for our main import products, which are oil and oil derivatives, it is clear that the value of imports in the first two quarters has increased. So we have a large number of international factors in which we cannot in any way influence, which have slowed down, or slowed down the growth of our exports, and thus affected us, our GDP. How do we compensate? One way is to stimulate the domestic market, domestic production, thus increasing consumption, or increasing GDP. And here we come to the point, that this increase in wages and pensions does not only have a moral and social component, but there is, on the contrary, an economic component, because this increase in wages and pensions needs to be reflected in the increase in spending, i.e. the increase in GDP. Let's put aside economic logic for a moment and turn to sound logic. What does a healthy logic say? Serbia is not a rich country and our citizens are not as rich as, for example, Americans. Nothing persuasive, let's get along. Therefore, it is not to be expected that this surplus in its revenues of about 5%, as expected to increase pensions to 15%, is therefore not to be expected to benefit from these funds by taking loans, so they will buy cars, yachts or some, as the modern language says - gjegets, i.e. expensive import products. Those who buy it, they don't care about this debate and they don't have any interest in the general increase in wages and pensions. That's what ordinary citizens are interested in, and they're very interested in this subject and I believe they're watching this debate now. And they, I'm quite sure, will use that surplus in their incomes, based on the increase in wages and pensions, to prepare for winter, to prepare the winter, to buy heat and buy winter clothes. When I last checked, everything from the number was produced in Serbia. Therefore, the increase in wages and pensions must be adjusted to an increase in consumption, i.e. to an increase in production, or to an increase in GDP. Of course, economic logic and sound logic are not always exactly identical. Economic logic is sometimes much more cruel than sound logic, but I don't think there's any valid reason for us to give up these measures, to which I deserve to repeat -- deservedly, we increase salaries to employees and increase, or for now we give one-off aid, but from January 1st we will increase pensions to the oldest citizens in the Republic of Serbia. So, once again, the SDPS will support all proposed laws, and I thank you all for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61332	Thank you, Dr. Bauer. The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word. Here you go. What about us? )
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61333	Thank you, Your Honor. I wouldn't be mad if you gave Vervai your word, but we didn't mind you and don't take it seriously. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the honourable representatives of the ministry, a little bit of an hour has been done by Mr. Markovic before I begin the story of what is the subject of today's agenda, but he has started a story that we talked about here during yesterday's day here in parliament. We just want one clear message to send you as a Parliament club, to continue with responsibility, seriously and committed to doing your job. And what's going on at the record and what's going on at the record, that's where the question is whether it's academic or political? Because, Ministers, as far as we know, MPs are elected at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and MPs are elected by citizens, and those who have blocked this recession are citizens. They're representatives of some political option. We think they missed both the place and the time. They shouldn't have blocked the recession. They were supposed to block the premises of their political options because they are guilty, their political leaders are guilty of being so incompetent and unable to present an alternative to the ruling coalition in Serbia at the moment and cannot even survive politically, so they are grasping the boycott's floss. All of this, Mr. Minister, has already been seen, and protests and boycotts and lawsuits of the state abroad and in the short term, even in the short term, it cannot bring them political points. But the bad news is that at a time when key issues of extreme importance are addressed for Serbia's national and state interests, a bad picture is sent to the public from Serbia. It damages the interests of Serbian citizens. I will return, and of course you continue to perform only responsibly, seriously, and consecratedly, as so far, the work for which you have taken responsibility and come to the congregation always with these results. When it comes to the specific budget rebalancing that we are talking about here today, it is quite clear that Serbia is on a good path and that positive trends are visible and recognizable, that there is visible and recognizable progress, improvement in every sector, in every sphere of society, but what is essential -- a improvement based on sound foundations. So it is important now to preserve those hard-earned achievements in the area of economy and finance and to bring to an end by adopting the 2014 budget, the process that has been launched, the reform course of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. In fact, the most important thing to do is to save the hard-earned fiscal achievements in the right way, and that's what seems and does the proposed budget rebalance, to use the benefits from it in the future in the right way, and that's also something that seems to be doing the proposed budget rebalance and to accept all the initiatives and incentives leading to growth and development. It is also something contained among other things in the budget rebalancing that we are talking about today, because Serbia must remain on the road that was just routed in 2014. As always, only three key words can be the synonym of such economic and financial policies, which are reforms, growth and development. We are talking today about budget rebalancing, not because we have an increase in expenditure, but because we have an increase in income and this increase in revenue that is far greater than expected. So it is important now that we, of course, take care of the interests of citizens, public interests and take care of how to preserve hard-earned fiscal achievements. Maintaining fiscal discipline, the conditions of business have been improved, that is something you spoke of, strengthened and strengthened economic growth and economic development, and that is something that brings revenue to the Republic of Serbia's budget. So, at this point rationally, responsibly and seriously, it's domestically available for what's earned. What's essential to us here? Therefore, expenditure will not endanger Serbia's stability. We have a continuing decline in the public debt of GDP, you spoke of it during the opening presentation. You said 52% is at this point the participation of public debt in GDP, which is very good. I think that through the reform processes we have permanently addressed two issues, which is a permanent reduction in public debt in GDP and a permanent reduction in deficits. We have a stable and secure inflation rate and we have a secure dinar course. That's what's essential at this point for us most important when we're talking about budget rebalancing. Public finances are, therefore, safe and stable for the first time and we have met today to look to the future with optimism through the results achieved. Of course, we support and welcome the intention that this positive rebalancing should, in part, be focused on what is the interest of citizens, on improving the standard of living and on the interests of citizens, because it has been through a very difficult period of time, and that the other part is directed at what is equally important, which is infrastructure projects. Because we, you know, think there's no economic without infrastructure development, and through infrastructure projects and capital investments, we're going to continue to solve the issue that we just talked about, which is the unemployment rate. So, from the unemployment rate that was 25.9% in 2013, today it fell to 10.3%. The new minimum labour price is far higher compared to 2018 by 8.6%. When we talk about capital investments, I want to remind you that we have defined 220 billion dinars for capital investments in 2019 and that this is 30% higher compared to the previous year, compared to when we talk about the budget for the previous year. Just in the last five years, you correct me if I'm wrong, that's some data that we've come up with, over the last five years alone, 300km of roads, about 200 factories, 60,000 people employed, investments worth 2.5 billion euros. As for foreign direct investment, in the first seven months, there was a figure of 2.32 billion euros, which is 43% higher than in the same period in 2018. So Serbia has become a world leader in attracting foreign investment, although someone is asking why? First of all, because Serbia has both political and economic stability at the moment and, above all, the government has subsidies that it offers to potential investors and, above all, that we here in the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, have adopted system laws that allow for faster bureaucracy, licensing, all that is necessary for successful business, when we talk about direct foreign investment. So today we have a surplus in the 46.4 billion budget, which is 60 billion better than what is expected, which is indeed an extraordinary result. It can be part of the opposition, you know, that it's critical to say, one part of the opposition that's not in the O.R. today, can be critical of this budget, facts and data are, you know, always inexorable, and they're not, unfortunately, on their side. We've had opportunities many times, and you remember that, to talk here in the O.R., when they were present, to talk about the budget, about budget rebalancing. I set aside these two laws on purpose, I don't diminish the importance and importance of other laws, but the budget is life. If you have an unreal budget, you have an unreal life. We had a chance to have a discussion with the representatives of that part of the opposition, and what did we hear? We've always heard only criticism for criticism, for advanced recitations, but we haven't heard one moment whether there's any other alternative, whether there's another way for Serbia to go and have to go in the next time period, and whether there's a better economic growth and new jobs and more factories to be opened in Serbia and of course a better standard of living. Such initiatives, or such a proposal, I have not heard or had the chance to hear from representatives of that part of the opposition, except for one thing, which is that they were absolutely against everything she did and were doing the ruling coalition. Total, therefore, from the budget for the Moravia Corridor 120m euros. We believe this is an extremely important and important project. Again, that part of the opposition I see has some criticism. I suggest that they go to the citizens of Cicevic or Triestenik or Vranjska Banja or Kralje or visit any municipality in the racial, racial, mortician district and ask the citizens what they think about this project and about the importance of this project. The second part, when we talk about infrastructure projects, the Milos the Great highway, the Cachak-Pozega share, one of the most significant and most important, I would say, shares. Also, Mr. Minister, we support the intention and your proposal that, through an increase in income, one piece of interest, as I said earlier, citizens towards improving citizens' living standards and we fully agree, the far-reaching increase in wages will be, as far as we can see, in the medical sector. Medical staff and technicians - 15%, doctors - 10%. We believe that we should all work together to keep medical staff in Serbia through continued salary increases. It should and must be our joint task and, of course, continue as you have so far. I see a billion euros being set aside for the construction of infrastructure projects, when it comes to clinical-patient centres, when it comes to hospitals. Of course, we fully support that. Also, of course, none of this would be, as you said in the opening statement, that in December 2013, in fact, when we adopted the 2014 budget, the foundations of a reform course of the Government of the Republic of Serbia were not set. It was politically unpopular then, and it was difficult, but also extremely brave and determined. At that time, the government made it very clear that it is not here that the parties, which form the ruling coalition, would collect political points and ratings, are already here because of Serbian citizens. Thanks to these and such measures, we today have a healthy system based on sound foundations. So, not a system based on politics and a list of good wishes, what, if realised in practice, would lead to political collapse and political bankruptcy, but a system based on life and economy. So today we have a basis for increasing, correcting me if I'm wrong, 9% of the salary for education workers, judges and prosecutors, as well as employees in courts and prosecutors, social security institutions, security and security forces. It's all something that has the full support of the SPS parliamentary group. When it comes to the representatives of the oldest population, the pensioners, of course, have borne the greatest burden of the period behind us. When someone says, very often we've listened to the simplified view of that part of the opposition, you're kidnapping someone, we're not taking anything away from anyone, it's not the popular, it's the necessary measures. We talked all the time about measures aimed at saving Serbia's economy and measures concerning every citizen of Serbia and the future of every Serbian citizen. Just thanks to these measures, we have the possibility today, you said, in December 5,000 dinars, a one-time aid for pensioners, an increase in pensions in January 5%. Try to be something bigger if you're able. You know, when they say, very often we hear it, not here, they prefer these political monologues here in the assembly hall, rather than the democratic confrontation of opinions, because they have no power in this democratic confrontation of opinions, so when you hear through that political monologue, it is too little for the pensioners... You know what? We have an increase, right, we have a salary increase, we have an increase in pensions, and we have a plus in the government register. It would be irresponsible and unserious if we had a far greater increase, that we had far more money and resources coming from the budget, because, for God's sake, the elections were there, so that we could maintain social peace, so that we could raise political parties' ratings, we could allocate far more funds and focus more on the pensioners both to the public sector and to the medical staff, but it would be extremely irresponsible and extremely irresponsible. In this way, this government of the Republic of Serbia will never and will never behave. The British newspaper Financial Times, you said, has for the second time declared Serbia a world leader in attracting foreign investment. Now that we're listening to this attempt to make the government some kind of an affair character, attack through affairs, and present the government as some sort of symbol of corruption, do foreign investors come where corruption is present? Of course not. This is what the Financial Times tells them very clearly, and this is very clear from one of the world's largest rating agencies Fitch Ratings, which has increased, as you said, our country's credit rating, and this is a confirmation of the success of reforms and an additional impulse in the domestic economy that seeks to become competitive in the world frameworks. Also, what our colleague was talking about, we fully support that one part of the positive budget is directed towards solving the problems that our citizens have when it comes to debt in Swiss francs. You know, that's the problem that someone's been pushing under the carpet for years and years to put aside, and they've been pushing him under the carpet and leaving aside just those who destroyed the banking system in Serbia, just those who entered the National Bank of Serbia with long pipes, which is why we don't know today where Serbia's budget reserves went missing from that time period, are the same ones who fired several hundred people from the National Bank of the Republic of Serbia, so these same people had to go back to work after court proceedings and the state had to pay for it. They have no right to comment on this. In this way, the government shows a responsible and serious attitude towards Serbian citizens, the government shows that it runs an active policy, meets problems and solves them. Of course, we also support this part of the allocation of funds for the collection of damages due to the elemental disasters for the restoration of facilities for public purposes. So, of course, we welcome the objectives, we support this rebalancing, because we support the objectives that want to be achieved through budget rebalancing, which is, above all, the interest of citizens. When I say citizens' interest, I mean improving citizens' living standards and the other part that we equally consider important, which is investment in infrastructure, because I will repeat, there is no economic without infrastructure development. Just one more thing, Mr. Secretary, one more question. In fact, we believe that, in addition to everything we've talked about and what has already been said during today's debate, the private sector is the future. I think the private sector is important to the state, because the state lives off the tax it collects from corporate profits, but the private sector is important because it opens up new jobs. I think that in the next period of time, the accent should be placed on the private sector, on the reliefs that will be directed towards the private sector, so that the private sector becomes a pillar of the Serbian economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61334	The People's Messenger George Komlensky has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61335	Thank you, Chairman. Comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen, distinguished ministers with associates, it is a great pleasure to talk about the budget rebalancing resulting from surpluses created by economic growth and activity, not because tax liabilities have been increased to taxpayers. If we were to work on the system from 2012 to today, we would be able to easily, as well as to go the easy way and not go that simple, we probably wouldn't have a chance to talk about budget rebalancing today. I will not repeat what my colleagues mentioned in the earlier debate. I have a few things I don't agree with. Some are probably laps, and some may be fundamentally different views of the budget and the functioning of the economic system, namely the tax system in general. In fact, I ask everyone to take care when they talk about trade, and this internal trade, with Kosovo and Metohija, or with economic operators in Kosovo and Metohija, to talk about it as internal trade, and in any event not to comment on it as any kind of export. Kosovo and Metohija are an integral part of the Republic of Serbia, which is temporarily occupied and this temporary occupation, which is taking place, prevents us from conducting internal trade with Kosovo in one normal way that is happening throughout the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Please, taking care of this, someone gradually does not convince us and does not lead to consciousness and acceptance, God forbid, some fact in some non-existent future that Kosovo and Metohija are not an integral part of the Republic of Serbia and that what is sold there is truly treated as exports. Please take care of every sentence when it comes to this. I caught myself in some situations, in earlier discussions, that I too made a lapus and I pray that when my colleagues do, too, remind me, because simply because of what some media in Serbia is always slowly picking on us, it's not good, and we have to fight it and take care of it. I will remind the Honorable Minister and I of my interest - is this budget rebalancing a space for increasing the salary of the judges of the criminal courts? So, not that the existing salaries are increased by some percentage, but that the judges are paid for violations equal to the salaries of the judges of the other courts, which we were talking about when the 2019 budget was adopted and I'm wondering if, at this point, this rebalancing is opening up as a possibility for serious thinking? I'll remind you again, there were the Prime Minister's words here when we talked about all this, the views of Minister Nela Kuburovic and everyone else where I don't really see why these people's salaries didn't equal the salaries of the other judges when we already gave them the rights, established obligations. The only right we haven't evened out to them is to be even with their material rights, like the judges of all the other courts, their colleagues. I wouldn't talk about it anymore. It's a simple question that I'm so interested in. What I'm saying is that right now, this tax reform is also very important. Please pay particular attention, it seems to me that this reform is coming into a phase that is so one squawk in the rise of the quality of the future work of the Tax Administration. In fact, if the training of future staff is not taken seriously at the moment, the preparation of future personnel to work in the Tax Administration, then I'm afraid we'll create something we don't want, which is that in some years, three or five tax administrations become something that will not encourage further growth. So what needs to be done through this further training of future junior staff, in which to invest, is to create habits for future serious work, which should sanction important events, new small things and tax disciplines become something that is common and normal, to have absolute understanding for business needs, to be flexible and to become partners with taxpayers in mutual interest. I have to say, I didn't like one detail of this reform, and it's centralised that's what it is. You know, we're all trying to talk about decentralisation, and generally under decentralisation, I can't treat that the huge parts of the Tax Administration, which was in Obrenovac, served the businesses operating in that territory, were moved to Chukarica. They may be small-scale complexes and I accept that it can be so, but if we talk about decentralisation, given that there are conditions for work both in Obrenovac and Lazarjevec and in Barajev, believe me that decentralisation of the Tax Administration would be far more just to move that centre along with Lazarevic and I believe that Obrenovac would be easier to travel to Lazarec and solve their problems when it comes to tax administration and everything else than to Belgrade. It may be a little harder for gentlemen from Belgrade to travel to Lazarec for what it is necessary to communicate directly between tax officials and taxpayers, but I think it was absolutely fair and fair. I'm not sure that there's a very good estimate of what's wrong and what's good, because I'm afraid that doesn't lead to labour congestion and simply extorts the increase in financial indiscipline from the already achieved level that I have to say is indeed a satisfactory growth of that discipline that existed in this past period. Today, it's quite fine, because of the current needs that exist and I believe that the Ministry of Finance couldn't take care of it, it takes at some point an hour and a half to get from Obrenovac to Chukarica, and imagine an entrepreneur from Dren who still has 35 kilometers to get to Obrenovac himself. I'm not sure that because of five or ten salaries in the administration it was good to move seats from Obrenovac, Lazarets, Barajev and others, I call it, suburban municipalities of Chukarica. Maybe it's a theme for some future thinking that the IRS, even if only formally, is a stand-alone organ. Why? Because in this situation today which is necessary and which shows good results, which is that the Tax Administration is exclusively within the Ministry of Finance, where the Ministry of Finance even prescribes certain tax instruments and decides in the second degree on these same instruments, for the sake of efficiency in establishing tax discipline is useful. If we are talking about future times, with the preparation of frames that will work far more efficiently, better to manage, to be in a partnership relationship with those that need to be dealt with, then I think it would be good for these two functions to be separated at one point and because whoever makes the decision on instruments, which should be implemented through tax procedures, to take much more care of what effect they will produce. I'm saying all this for one simple reason. Because at this point in the rebalancing process, we are the funds that primarily focused from surpluses on increasing wages, profits and what interests citizens. I sincerely hope and rightly expect that we and the debate on the 2020 budget in some future times will also have a picture of a possible surplus and that we should also consider how much further relaxation should be given to businesses in order to be a way to stimulate their better and greater engagement in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. I don't think that priority should be given to privates. I absolutely don't see any reason for any distinction between state and private entities. The market game, if someone's already up for the game, then they should be totally equal to all the participants who are there, so whoever's doing better will be better off. There are some things that will change this approach in some future time because it is a mantra about the gray economy. You know, we keep listening to the gray economy, the gray economy, the gray economy. Has anyone adequately measured the amount of gray economy and how much it really affects the budget of the Republic of Serbia? That bid, it was 30%, so now it's 25% or 28%, I really don't know who measured it. Is this measured by telephone polls, so we listen to it through N1 television here to destroy the state-law system of the Republic of Serbia? Then I really can't accept it as some serious fact and serious information. You know, 30%, 15%, and 5% gray economy. It's factories, it's plants, it's institutions, it's that amount of money. Simply, only in simple mathematics when you put it in relation to the Republic of Serbia's budget, you realize that there are some segments of serious exaggeration. Should these exaggerations protect something that could be new serious sources of revenue from the Republic of Serbia's budget? In fact, it is obvious, Mr. Minister, that either your ministry will resolve the question whether the taxpayers in the Republic of Serbia are N1, Nova Sport and these cross-border calls televisions or obviously will not be established by anyone else. Why? Huge funds are coming out of the Republic of Serbia untaxed. I have personally come to the full belief that they are working completely illegally. We talked about it at the last session when the Republic Government was here, and I think there should be absolutely one good coordination in all of this, either REM is unable or there are no tools with which this job should be completed. In part, with the help of REM, partly with the tenacity of many distinguished fellow MPs here, well-intentioned people in the Republic of Serbia, we have come to know that the programme broadcast on N1 television is definitely not broadcast either in Luxembourg or in Slovenia and here what they are doing is not re-emissioning, but is broadcasting. I don't need to remind you that the Tax Procedure Act says -- where it is found that there is a simulated job, and this is a clear simulation of the alleged re-emission of the programme, in order to avoid paying taxes and taxes to the Republic of Serbia, rates are applied as in dissembling business. To simplify, what is paid by regulated television in the Republic of Serbia on behalf of tax obligations, when it comes to advertising sales taxes, on income and everything else that follows, must and should pay N1 television. I am publicly asking you here to send the most objective, most capable and most trained people who work in the IRS to control these televisions. Let them determine the actual state and simply close one episode. Budgets, I have to say that I am a layman and it sounds like a huge number to me, but some colleagues who say they understand it better than I do, argue that in this way, at least one 500m euros per year does not end up in the Republic of Serbia's budget. Is 500, is 100, some is one single dinar, it's too much. In the end, let's clear up this situation, we have here part of the evidence that consists of statements by competent broadcasters from Luxembourg, in response to our parliamentary questions, not mine, but I say ours, because many colleagues have asked these questions, the answers from the Republic of Slovenia. After all, the right to tell you, we also have personal knowledge, because I called some of my friends who are in Slovenia, so I asked at Turning August 19 - did you watch me in this direct broadcast on N1 television? They say we don't have it, there's no way to look. Thus, reasonable doubts exist that it is a purely misuse that REM or cannot or will not react to. Therefore, as a lawyer, I absolutely know that in these situations, the financial police, the tax police, that kind of control, should leave, determine whether they are taxpayers or not, whether they respect the law of the Republic of Serbia or not, and if there is any doubt, they will complete their part of the job, and if there is any doubt that I am management or evidence that I am management and my colleagues, then they will inform the competent prosecutor's office, who will take charge of the prosecution. I think it's about time we brought this to an end. You know, N1 television, SBB and others aren't the street salesman who lives on whether he sold any second-hand goods, so he secreted some petty tax, so they should challenge our emotions, they simply endanger the normal functioning of all televisions, which are neatly registered and have the approval to work in the Republic of Serbia. I'm absolutely convinced of that, and I wouldn't go any further, I'm afraid I'm going to overstep, the part that's part of the parliamentary story and the parliamentary relationship with it all, but just like us here, we have an obligation to protect those who do business legally, who do business legally. Maybe that's why someone came into a situation to shut down their television, to stop holding some net and stuff. It's simply a way for us to go out with this on a healthy branch, to finally determine the facts exactly as they are and to say one job we've brought to an end, however, it's important that we determine the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61336	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mr. Sinisha Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61337	Thank you very much. I'd like to refer to the two topics you mentioned in your address. First of all, about the relaxation of the burden on profits, therefore, the relaxation of the entire economy of our country. We've already sent a serious signal last year that we're ready to deal with it. If you remember, we have just reduced the payload from 63 to 62% by eliminating certain contributions to the employer's burden. We've already announced new cuts in the payload this year. We go to 62% of the 1st of January of next year, and that's the topic we're going to discuss when we discuss the 2020 budget, but it's an absolutely solid burden on our country and this government to go into discharging the economy in a way that we're going to reduce the burden on earnings from year to year. This makes our entire market more attractive and competitive and encourages employers and employs more and of course and raises wages. As far as tax administration reform is concerned, the subject is very long. It's not simple at all. The reform of the Tax Administration must follow the reform of the entire state administration, of course, of our entire country. This part of you were talking about, so the homework the IRS had ahead of it in agreement with the IMF is that the number of branches is down from 178 to 37. They did a huge job in time. I want to congratulate everyone in the IRS, because they did a really big job the right way. By the way, I've visited their office on Chukarica myself. What is very important to this message is for both the citizens of Serbia and the businessmen, therefore, no longer matters where a physically located branch of the Tax Administration is located, the largest number of services, in the end, almost all services can be provided electronically. So digitization is what we have to insist on. There's no need to enter the tax administration branch itself, and that's one progress and progress that we need to take advantage of in the right way. This is just the beginning of the tax administration reform. So two things and two great activities await us in an awkward period. It's one thing to introduce e-factures. We'll talk about it tomorrow, when we talk about the new accounting law. So, by a certain date in the entire economy, it will be necessary to introduce so-called. electronic invoices. So the payments will go much faster, much more efficiently. This is also a prerequisite for a systemic solution to VAT returns as a basic requirement for the economy, and I must note that VAT return has been going in the last few months, given the changes we have implemented in the Tax Administration, much faster and more effectively than ever, and all the businessmen I have spoken to have witnessed. So the introduction of an e-facture is a very important change. When both the front and exit invoices match correctly, it will be an automatic VAT refund. So, on the same day. That's what they're doing bigger and more developed economies than we are, and that's what we're gonna do. Another aspect of this, along with the strengthening of staff, the strengthening of the tax administration's infrastructure itself and the fiscalisation that awaits us next year, where we will have continued non-stop in real time control of taxpayers through the introduction and the new fiscal cash registers and thus further reduce the grey economy and, of course, improve the collection of tax revenues. So what you were talking about is just the first step in a major reform of the Tax Administration and we expect that by 2023 we will fully implement the tax administration reform and that it will be a real institution and a factor that will further boost the development of our economy and make our economy even more attractive and competitive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61338	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Aleksandar Stevanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61339	Dear President, distinguished finance ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen, I will begin this rebalancing analysis with some of the things that we in the SMS parliamentary group think are more and less agreeable to anyone who is economically normal and communicable. We believe that it is probably the majority of people in the Republic of Serbia, as well as most political parties. Some things are undeniable, and these are that stability is a great thing for a country, that budget balance is a great thing for a country. That's what we've had for some time in the Republic of Serbia, these are things that, I would say, form the basis for building a house. The foundation of the house also builds things like good credit ratings. Our credit rating is growing, it should be acknowledged, a low inflation rate which is a sign that money is considered no different than a potential source of damage, if it is mishandled and that the best money that is not inflation. The currents to the budget and from the budget are stable. On these foundations you can build a house that will be medium size, a house that will be very beautiful, and a house that can be built. We're not a country today that's discussing whether we're at risk of bankruptcy, it's ancient history, and I hope that never happens again. We have no ideas in public that are purely economic madness, and decent people don't discuss budgets in a way that doesn't exist in some countries that have been developed and that have solid performances for years. Now the next step should be to say that we from the SMS parliamentary group will support these things and the budget, that is, its rebalancing in this case. However, as I would say, when you're in politics, when you're in economics or whatever, when you go to play for example volleyball or basketball in front of your building with your friends or wherever you want to play, we can basically have two approaches. One approach is to have great expectations and it usually leads to great disappointments and is very human, we all think we can do much better. Another approach that's very conservative says, let's be satisfied with what we've achieved. Despite the undisputed achievements with which I was atypical of the opposition party, since our practice was usually to attack everything you could, where I see the problem is that I don't think we were ambitious enough to encourage growth with this budget. Promoting growth is a game we'll be running in years and decades to come. How to encourage the largest growth in the Republic of Serbia? One of the exhibitors also spoke, one distinguished colleague about it, let's make proposals for growth. Part of the exposure will be about it. And one more thing I would point out before I get into any more of the important things about this exposure is that sometimes the thesis is that it's very good that the state has surpluses. Of course it's a good thing we have balanced finances. However, the key issue of a fiscal policy called Lafer's fault in theory is what is the optimal level of taxation in one country, or if you tax too much, and people will want to avoid it, if you tax too little perhaps you can take a little more and pay some things that are the basic functions of the state without at the same time jeopardising incentives for economic activity. Here we have certain skeptics that maybe that Laffer's guilt, or the level of taxation raises a little higher. Not in profit tax, of course, which is very competent, but in taxes on wages and contributions. But let's go back to the basis of what we see as a fundamental problem and what should be treated? If we were to talk about why there is no faster growth, we could look at several fields of economic policy. We could look at, for example, the rule of law. A better rule of law in Serbia would certainly foster security, long-term planning, companies that are highly sensitive to the issue of coming to Serbia. However, alas, the Anglo-Saxon countries have been building the rule of law for hundreds of years, some European countries have been building for decades, and we are building it much shorter. Could we have done better? I'm sure we could. But what is certain and to make every effort in the years to come, we will not have the rule of law that exists in the Scandinavian countries, the United Kingdom. There we can stimulate growth slightly every year, but we can't make quantum jumps. What else can stimulate growth? Let's say faster into integration. Serbia's accession to a large European market under good legal order will surely attract investment. We can work here faster and we can do a lot of things. We can do a lot of things on some techniques, or structural things. We've done nice things here, such as digitising, removing parafiscal burdens from a country that thinks a little bit more about some technical issues of economy. There is room to work and to work in the future, it also encourages growth. However, a field where we haven't worked enough yet, and we can do pretty much that when we come to some levels of growth that are solid, is tax cuts, or wage cuts. It's a key question, and we, looking at this rebalancing, with a single dose of regret, realized that it wasn't the subject of this rebalancing. One of the biggest problems that is because we have an excessive burden, at least so the businessmen say, on salaries in Serbia, is that we have relatively low domestic investment, not foreign direct investments that are at an excellent level and should also be pointed out, it would be better if they didn't arrive for subsidies, but because of a fantastic business environment, but it's probably a process that takes place, and that needs to find answers – and what prevents domestic companies from investing more? It is a crucial battle when we talk about growth rates. Now, for those of you who know that, on one level that applies to someone who deals with business, to people who are more age-old in the economy, there are people who say -- so why is it important three, four, five percent, what exactly does that mean to you, why are you stuck talking about whether it's three, three and a half percent? What does that mean? I have a salary today, I don't know, 400 euros, and you're arguing whether I'm going to next year or not. You're discussing, now it's a little different, whether I'm going to have 412 or 420 euros, what's the difference? Here, let's imagine continuing on a 3% path every year to grow. It's easy to happen, even though it's better to be a path now, because there are years that are worse. If we grow three percent, around 2043 wages in Serbia will be 1,000 euros. At that point, let's say, I'm 68 years old, the minister will enter in the eighth decade of his life. If we grow by five percent a year, which could be achieved by a little more exacerbating work on what I mentioned, we reach a salary of 1,000 euros in 2034. That's where I'm going to be 57 years old. The minister will enter the seventh decade. I'm calling him because he's gonna answer, so it's nice to mention it. If we are as good and dedicated as possible, we may be able to achieve more because we are a poor country that has not taken advantage of many chances. If we grow by six percent, in 2031, the salary is 1,000 euros, so here we are still in solid strength. What's the point of saying? If we had a good growth that didn't crack so fast, because we're a poor country, we can grow very long if we're brave, if we understand the international environment, if we cut the cost and make an effective state, it's a long process and we'll have to pull out good performances. It could happen, let's say, that already around 2045 or 2050, it's been late for most of us, for some of us, it would be phenomenal, if we had 1,000 and some euros in wages in Serbia -- 2,000. It's your pledge for the future, and that's why it's important to talk about those 1-1.5% every year and do everything to make these things happen. This can only draw a strong private sector, it cannot extract public investment, although they are extremely useful, but essential, long-term sustainable growth can only extract private sector, private companies on the free market, in a capitalist Serbia that knows where it is headed. That is why we believe that the budget must have an extremely strong struggle for growth. If I think what might be wrong, although I don't see it as a general trend, it's going out with concepts to strengthen effective demand through state spending has good effects on growth. They are rather minor compared to encouraging offers, i.e. encouraging the creation of competitive companies. When it comes to rebalancing, we have certain concerns. We think that people who have fallen, that they should be given the opportunity to rise, people who are in trouble should be given a soft shocker, to realize that they live in human society. Five thousand dinars for pensioners has such a purpose for some, for some there is no. You have some that you won't even notice, because they're not in the system, the foster home in the countryside, they won't get anything. It's also true that our system is so set up that you can get a lawsuit if all pensioners don't get 5,000 if you say they'll get you, you and you, if you say it's help for pensioners. But if we're going to deal with social policy, as a poor country, it would be good if it targets those who really don't, even if they were non-voting, disorganised political, invisible in the media, if we really want the right social country, with maximum market efficiency, of course. When it comes to wages, it is true that many people in the public sector work very hard and are not well paid. I don't mean public enterprises, but I'm thinking about the state administration in a narrow sense. But, like when the crisis broke out, in all its uglyness, so it had to be quick to react, and there were disagreements about how it's done exactly and that it was very likely that taking an ax to cut expenditure was a good approach when it needed to react quickly, and here it seems to me that we took the shovel to get that money back and that it would be much better if we worked on the pay grade and thought about who we really want to stimulate. It's good to recognize some professions that are literally dying in the public sector, because we've lost all our nurses, but the question is exactly who we want to motivate. You have a lot of people in the public sector who work, who are good quality and do it for funny money. You've got a lot of people in the public sector and they don't do anything for too much money every day, and that's the fact, and that's why we need paying classes, not to bring things back with a shovel. Therefore, one general conclusion is that when we discuss each budget, it is a debate on the fight for growth, on structural reforms, on reducing tax burdens, on a country that is a service to the private sector, for a country that creates an economy, which can be the economy of Serbia, which, I say, is really an engine in the Balkans, not as good as some, or is the first to the best, but a truly undeniable one. That's the thing, we have great ambitions, instead of having the satisfaction achieved and we're never going to get in a position to discuss whether the budget is stable or not. Also, a little depression, it's just fine that we have a little deficit. A small deficit and senorrhage on the money emissions, that's the only two perpetum of the mobile that exists in the world. So, the small deficit itself, after the stabilisation program has passed, is no problem and up to 0.5%, that's what you say, stimulant from nothing. If GDP is growing much faster, it's not a problem, you're literally getting additional growth. Why are we texting these things at a time when we have very good results, they're not great yet? So because we're a small country dependent on conukture, we have a lot of sectors that are dependent on seasonal factors. We have some big systems we haven't touched enough and when you don't do the job right, the whole economy can suffer. The conjucture can change and we can experience years when Europe, for example, goes down to minus, so that we can move to zero. We're not going to go negative, I'm sure. It can happen, as smart as we are now to work and change credit debt structure by refinance expensive loans with cheap, that if we don't do enough on the development of credit, credit rating, one day we're in a position to refinance cheap loans more expensive. We can also build a poor economic structure of the country, if we forget the private sector, and then become vulnerable to some medium-term change. It may happen that we forget to build a knowledge economy infrastructure in the private sector, and that then challenges arise in cases where the current model where we're dominantly relying on cheap labour, and that was one problem for a lot of people who nobody wanted to hire, we're going to have to look for branches where we have much more extra value and much higher wages. These are clouds that can occur and should be thought of at best in good years. In all, we would point out as a final conclusion that Serbia's budgets in the coming years must be more focused on reducing tax burdens, on domestic companies, domestic enterprises, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, which have high added value domestically in Serbia, because you have companies that have a high product, but it is not high added value in Serbia. Because these companies won't leave Serbia, because they're domestic, they're much weaker to leave. For example, if one day a market president appears in Armenia, or if an African country suddenly becomes phenomenal or Latino American, these companies will not amount to either capital or profit, because simply for such things they need to have a lot of knowledge and be a great player, as any multinational can do when they do. These are the reasons why any future debate and any future projection of the budget should be a dominant fight for growth, a fight for development, a fight for competitiveness, and what is meant to be one topic that decent economists, competent MPs, ministers do not discuss more or less, because this is something that is meant in a regulated country, which is a budget that does not go down, a country whose duty does not increase, except in years of crisis and a fiscal system that is guaranteed to be a state service to citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61340	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mr. Sinisha Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61341	Thank you very much. Mr Stefanovic, first of all, I am pleased that you yourself have concluded that the stability of our public finances has been fully established, that the agencies that are doing the credit rating have given us their confirmation and that our currents, both in the budget and in the budget, are stable to quote what you have said. I think it's very important that all citizens understand that our topics in the last few years on our public finances have changed completely. In 2012, 2013, we talked about public debt, high public debt, huge deficits, we talked about low or negative growth rates, we don't have any money for salaries, we don't have any pensions, we don't have any domestic or foreign direct investments. Today our topics are completely different. So today we're talking about a surplus in the budget. Last year, the growth rate of our economy was 4.3%, the highest in the last 10 years. I am talking about that we have fully stabilised our public debt and we are thinking in what way, of course, unemployment rate from 25.9% in 2013, at 10.3% this year is still high, but we are still fighting for every new employee. So, we want our unemployment rate below 10% in the next few months, which has been going since that statistic. I watched 2006 in Serbia didn't happen. Another historic thing we can do very quickly if we continue with these reform moves that we started in 2014, and here I fully agree with you and your comments. What's important is to mention that growth you were talking about. So, given the end of fiscal consolidation over the past few years, what is our biggest challenge and what we are most struggling with is how not 4.3% or 3.5% of our economy's growth rates are this year, but also five, and six, 7%. You here have a few elements that are very important to the citizens of Serbia to understand in the end I think you understand. Therefore, the first growth of your GDP and the growth of your economy determines and the growth of consumption precisely because of this part of the surplus that we have achieved and we are focusing on increasing wages to increase pensions, because we believe that this part of the increase in personal consumption, of course with the rise of quality, or the standards of Serbian citizens, will significantly contribute to the growth of our GDP. On the other hand, if you look at the second element of our budget rebalance, so 26 billion dinars, we set aside additional ones just to invest in new highways, in the Office for Public Investment Management in other regional roads and local roads that Serbian Roads are doing, because this is exactly what investments in so-called. to contribute further to the growth of our GDP in these public investments. In doing so, as President Vukic announced, we are already thinking and making plans. By the end of this month, we will also have a detailed overview of how we will invest more than 12 billion euros through the so-called. The National Investment Programme for the next four years, which needs to further stimulate our economic growth. Finally, you have that difference, to say the difference between imports and exports, which contributes to the growth of our GDP. When you look at the latest indicators, therefore exports, and despite having a large number of challenges especially in our largest foreign trade partners here I like Germany, and Italy, and the slowdown of their economies also records healthy growth rates in the first six months of this year. I think it's very important. You cannot achieve growth with one measure, you realize growth with a series of smaller measures that each individual, and also together must be sufficiently stimulating to allow your growth of the economy in a sustainable way. So it doesn't pay anybody, nor does it benefit that the economy is growing one year, so that next year, it has to be a sustainable and continuous growth of our economy. That's why, I quote another element, which you mentioned, we also defined ourselves last year to start discharging the economy in terms of profit costs, I say, by abolishing certain contributions last year for this one where we reduced the burden from 63% to 62%. In the coming years, we expect a further discharge, and this will be done year by year to ensure that the fiscal space we have made, which we have earned, is partly used to disburse profits to ensure that our economy is both more competitive and attractive. On your question of what prevents domestic companies from investing more, I will answer you not to prevent them from doing anything. You have a few elements that are very important for that when any investor, since I do not make a difference between foreign and domestic, every investor who has opened up a factory here hires Serbian workers, pays our workers, ultimately, encourages the growth of our economy, and as you can see, we are very successful in keeping those we attract and retain in our country because they stay here, are satisfied with the conditions of becoming more fit, we work with them to be even better to continue to raise the level of their export activities and employ even more people. So, on the one hand, what is important for all businesses in Serbia? This is a change in the market environment, an increased credit rating of the country also means lower cost of funds, i.e. money that can be taken by private and any other companies to invest in the growth of their capacities, to invest in their production. That's very important. In a conversation with a large number of businessmen, this is exactly what you get as a very important factor in making them decide to invest more and more. Given that monetary policy is stable, fiscal policy is predictable, the country's credit rating is increasing from month to month, and you have cheaper sources of funding, this is very important for businesses. Secondly, there are also subsidies from the state where we return some of the money we earn through subsidies to businesses. In our country, I visited a few companies in Belgrade ten days ago, all private. I've had a chance to talk to people who have been very happy with the stimulating measures the state has been supporting lately. An example of the company where they imported and bought a ten million dinar machine from China, two and a half million dinars received grants from the Serbian state to buy the machine and thus become absolute leaders in the region in their business area. This is just an example of how and how the state can and currently and supports private and business people, generally, in order to achieve its goals and employ more people. Reduce the payload, I already said we're doing it, we're going with that policy. What's very important, and I'm going to end up talking to the businessmen, and we all kind of forget it, as if twenty-thirty years ago, they say -- you see, ministers, at this point we're not thinking about these exchange rate differences, 2011, and in 2012, everyone tried to sort out their balances by solving these exchange rates, because, I'm going to remind you, in 2012, inflation was over 11%, and from 2008 to 2012, it grew from 80 to 120. And then they say -- thank you for not thinking about it now, and that was the beginning of my address, the topics have changed. Today, businessmen are not thinking about exchange rate differences because the course is stable, they are not thinking about inflation because inflation is stable, they are not thinking about other disorders that the state has caused in some previous period through a huge increase in public debt, by reducing the credit rating through the fact that the cost of capital, the cost of their sources of funding, has been increasing. Take a look today. I also gave a little before the fact that the cost and price of capital, the cost of borrowing our country by just one year, has been reduced by 4.5 to 3.4. This means that the cost of borrowing businesses in Serbia has also been reduced by so much and that they have more money to invest and for new employment. So, the environment has changed. It is up to us to define fiscal policy in the right way to be stimulating. You can't do that when you have a budget deficit, when you have a huge public debt, when you have a high unemployment rate. We've been through these fiscal consolidation measures. I'll be free to say, the hardest measures are behind us. We now need to be smart enough and able to use this surplus in the budget to increase wages and pensions, so, to raise the quality and standard of life of Serbian citizens to encourage domestic consumption and additional investment, as we do through the launch of works on the Moravska Corridor, Preljina – Požega and everything else that is in the rebalancing of this budget. So we have a huge chance. The worst is behind us. In my opinion, the best is yet to come, with the condition that we use the money we have earned wisely to raise salaries and pensions and to launch more investment and investment projects. Therefore, we are also talking about a national investment programme of over 12 billion euros over the next four years, because we also want to address the problem of sewerage of the missing, water network, wastewater treatment plants, to rehabilitate, as you know, 5,000 km of local and regional roads only in the next four years. We have 10,000 in our country in total. So, through these public works or state investments, you encourage the growth of your economy, and on the other hand you make the quality of infrastructure better and quality of life of Serbia's citizens better and attract an even greater number of investors who would open up factories, hire new people, raise their wages slowly, because the unemployment rate of 10.3% speaks for a few more percent and we'll get to the limit of some full-time employment if you assume that from that 10.3 at least 5% or 6% of people don't want to work, there are some other sources of income, then the labour market is doing its job, and then slowly from the average salaries we had a few years ago 360 or 350 euros, you come now in December to 500 euros, and then you go slowly to 520, 550, 600, much faster, Mr. Stevanovic, than you thought, because it would be exactly like these measures that we're taking our economy much faster growth, and the economy will make it right now that you feel a little faster, and you think that you're a little faster, but you'll get a little faster than you'll get a little faster, but you'll get a little bit faster than you think. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61342	Thank you. Right on line, MP Alexander Stevanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61343	Yeah, there were a lot of nice materials I'd be attached to. So, only people who do painting or film or so in certain arts have quality in their professions if they see reality differently than it is. In the economy, it's usually not a quality, and it's no wonder we agreed on things that are obvious and are the alphabet of the economy. Also, it is true that there is a silver bullet and you now fire one – the measure of economic policy and all bloom. However, there are measures where the potential has more and the measures where the potential may be exhausted, measures that give faster results and measures that will give slower. I don't see any excessive discrepancies. So, we don't think that just imposing wages is the only way to raise the economy, but we think there's a lot of good space for that measure to be used in the years to come. That's the whole story about it. Moreover, we believe, since every year we get a notice that it will be reduced by 1% even in the process when the draft budget is being done, we are interested, so we find out much earlier than those who are not interested in reading and reading both the ERPs and all other strategic documents that are being appended every year to a certain period ahead of us so that it might be better for the reduction to be in the form of a fiscal rule and related to growth rates. You know, when you have one rule, it's a guarantee that the state is going to do it just every year when conditions are created, and this is how that space stays that maybe it's the thing of some other calculations. When you say so, I'll do it in the next five or ten years, and I guess if the government changes, that everyone in their right mind will continue to do good things. That's to the one who invests, and especially the home company opens up space to know that he's getting better and better and that the costs, at least the ones he's taking care of and the state, are going to be lower. In this respect, the superiority of the fiscal rule is that in each budget we do things that are reasonable. It's not a question. I would also not, as someone who is monetaryist and who believes in working with the offer, point out that when we invest in spending from the budget, it will stimulate excessive economic growth. Simply, we are an export-export-dependent country and it is inevitable that most of what we invest, in this way goes on imports and that we will inevitably encourage some other countries and then I would rather view it as what it is. This is just an additional effect that gives a positive something, but an essential effect, and if we invest in public officials' salaries, we'll get better service for the economy, not to stimulate growth. He'll be partially encouraged. (President: You are bringing the end, colleague Stevanovic. I will. Thank you for your traditional tolerance, Vice President. As for investment, the horse is in front of the water, but what needs to be answered by fiscal policy and any other economic policy is to let each almost every horse drink that water. That's the whole story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61344	The word is made by Minister Sinisha Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61345	I am sure that in the Budget Rebalance proposal, we have rightly balanced the balance between investment, public investment, 26 billion and between salary increases and payment of one-time aid to pensioners. The salary increase is about two and a half billion. Eight and a half billion is a one-time help to the pensioners. So that's ten billion from the 26 billion that this rebalance is aimed at starting the construction of the Moravia Corridor Preljin – Požega and the other projects we've been talking about. That is exactly what the government's definition of making even higher and higher rates of growth in the coming years, so that we can have more salaries and more pensions again. It is the only sustainable, only long-term sustainable management and fiscal outcome and fiscal policy and ensuring a high growth rate for the Republic of Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61346	Thank you. Now I'm setting a regular break for an hour. We continue work at 3:30 p.m. [[After a break.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. Do any of the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? National MP Borisav Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61348	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Ministers and your associates, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, we rarely have what is happening to us today at this session when the meetings of the Assembly are at stake, especially when it comes to the sessions at which we are considering the budget in any way, the annual budget or, as today, budget rebalancing. The good thing that's happened to us is, to put it this way, the new government, and today we're in a wonderful situation to go to budget rebalancing because we can, in one simple language, add more financial resources to realize what we've done with politics, and not like before, do rebalances to go to restrictions. This is what gives special satisfaction and I think everyone in this room and all the citizens should be satisfied about it. That was very important to me to say in the beginning. I think this time, all the documents and the budget system and the Budget Law, and everyone else, is an innovative technique to make and access these documents, quite differently, more innovative, better than we've ever had before. The only thing I'd resent, one really, maybe say, banal thing, is that I am an older man, but even younger people don't have good eyesight, these are terrible little letters. I have to admit that these smallest letters, that part I couldn't even read. So I'd like to pray, if the government can, we can secure in the future, that we're not really going, that's the paper savings, but it's not that much to bother with. I'm sorry about that, because for the first time we've received these documents, and we could have done great, and we've had time to work them out, discuss them, etc. I think we'd still get the quality. What is striking to me as an MP of this Assembly, and since it is the Assembly, it is that this draft budget and these documents make a very different approach and give a new quality of budget realisation, it is that in a large number of issues are resolved and largely the powers of the Assembly have been transferred to the relevant Committee of the Assembly, i.e. the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public funds. I think that's good, because this procedure, now as prescribed, here in the materials, is how I can bring better quality documents and I think it should be kept and welcomed. I'd talk about some things here because there's a lot of material to talk about. Since I speak as a PUPS MP, what I think is the first topic is the issue of building and maintaining pensioners' status this way, through budgeting. We said here and that's the 27th member in which it was all worked out when it came to receiving all categories of society and pensioners. We are here, said the minister, foresaw one-time assistance for all pensioners at 5,000 dinars. That's one thing. Second, an increase in pensions is projected early next year, as the minister said in terms of 5.1 to 5.5, if I remember correctly. I would like, without any desire to point out the category of this society, a large, or pensioner of more than 1,700,000, to remind myself of what the president of the state said on several occasions and the representatives of the government, etc., that this is the category which, I say, was the most drawn when it started to pull out of the financial collapse in which this state was. And that's what's logical and logical is that we the oldest who have built this country and as the oldest that we first realize that we should sacrifice ourselves for the better of this country. And we did that, as you know, without the big rake, even though we were put in an unequal position then, one large part of the pensioners, when the salaries were reduced by 10%, we were reduced by 20 and 25% by certain categories. Why am I saying this? I'm talking about now that we're somehow getting back into an inferior situation. When you take article 27, where you figure out which category you're going to get an increase, etc., that's 8 to 15%, as far as I can remember, and the pensioners are projected 5%. I'm saying this out of the need to remind myself, we're MPs of the United Pensions Party, which is a party that came out of the mere need to save the financial and any other position of a huge mass of people from over 1,700,000 because we had a situation at that time that according to Serbia, pensioners were buried in plastic bags. And we said then that we came as a structure in a situation that could be called a social genocide. We were then in the position that the average pension was about 50, or below 50%, compared to the average salary. I'm afraid that we should pay a little more attention to this increase, as we are now predicting, because we're going to get into a situation and now with this increase we're going to go even lower in the average pension than the average salary, and we're not, not now, not getting into it wider, we're not in a great situation, but in a very bad situation, when it comes to this relationship. We agreed long ago that status and materiality and any other pensioner can only be kept through this relationship of profit and pension. I'm saying this, not because we need to do it now, and now we don't accept these documents for it. We, as a parliamentary group, will accept these documents, but I also warn the Minister and the Government that we are taking care of this in advance in the coming years that simply as sand through our fingers we do not go through this situation so that we can bring the pensioners into a situation where they were once again. So I'm asking you to understand me in the best possible way. I think my colleague Momo Colakovic is going to say something about it, so I don't spread the story. Another thing that I would like to say and which I think is very important for this country, is that the Government, when adopting this Budget Rebalance proposal, was very carefully measured against all levels of government, not only at the level of state and republican and all municipalities and cities when it comes to transfers of funds. I welcome it because the transfers to other levels of government have increased by 3.4%, or nearly three billion, and that the transfers by municipalities and cities have increased by nearly a billion, or 2.7%. I think it's a good commitment because that's the only way, if we talk about decentralisation in society, without this kind of look at things and without these predictions, we can't even realize decentralisation, and we can't further improve society and all the structures in it. When it comes to this topic, it can also be joined by the next area in this Rebalancing Proposal, which is the area of social protection. I think it's been a lot of effort to make this proposal, and I think it's one of the most important things if we want to help the citizens, if we want the equality of all citizens in every way, and even in this, to raise to one higher level and society in general to advance. I therefore welcome the increase in this social protection proposal as a percentage of nearly six and 5.9%, which is a significant sum, i.e. 119 million, 120 million, round. I think these are the important things that govern in the best way in this society that are necessary to improve, and can also be done with financial resources. That is why it is a politically absolutely mature approach and the government's approach must be welcomed. In addition, when it comes to the development of certain segments in society, I would like to underline one more thing. We have since last, when we formed the last government, besides existing ministries, we have three ministers without portfolios. We have one of the ministers without portfolios for even regional development. As part of this, for the past few years, it's been excruciating, all-rounding, working on it, so the work in which science is involved, as you know, and that's the Committee of the Academy of Science for the Village. In this segment of regional development, a number of things have been planned and started on the plan of revitalisation of the village, i.e. rural development. I think, I guess the government has been going in and out of it, but I think my position is, and so I feel, that the development of the village is one of the most strategic most important things for the further development and progress of this society, and when it comes to agriculture, and when it comes to the birth rate in this society, which threatens us very much, not to talk about it, and the president of the state has been talking a lot about lately, and a lot of other things. I've seen here that 714 million and something for this job of even regional development is envisaged, and I think it would be good if there were even more resources to be put on it, but I suggest to the government that there is a strong presence when we bring in a new budget. So much at this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61349	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Sinisha Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61350	Thank you. Mr Kovacevic, honourable MPs, just one brief addition. So, as of 1 January 2020, pension indexation by so-called the Swiss formula, which is based on, on the one hand, on the increase in wages, and on the other hand on the degree of inflation in our country. This is usually the best, most just and you've seen and by the reaction of our oldest citizens, what answers them most about the predictability of increasing pensions from year to year, just to give our oldest citizens that security about how much pension they're going to have. On the other hand, you have enough money in your budget to tie pension growth to salary growth. So, very fair and very direct relationship between salary growth and pension growth. This is the indexation we promised last year, which will take place from 1 January 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61351	Thank you. Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61352	Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a budget rebalance proposal. It's very interesting here that on this income side, which is, after all, the cause of this rebalancing, there has been an increase in tax collection, when it comes to excise duties and when it comes to something that is non-taxable income. We have clear indicators here that the Ministry has suggested, that over the last eight months, there is a huge increase in tax collection, which means that tax services have done their job properly. On the other hand, this difference in excise duty is one part from the decision where most decided to introduce electricity excises, so there is an increase. The increase was increased with additional payments made by Serbia's National Bank of 10 billion, according to the ministry's showing and increased by 8.8 or 9 billion, which were earned on behalf of the Belgrade Airport concession tax. It is something that is in any case the basis for accessing this rebalancing, so that the ministry, as it says, could prioritize or put an emphasis on investments and distribute the other part on the name of salary and pension increases. We Serbian radicals have programmeically offered Serbian citizens funding solutions, especially when it comes to budget and budget control. We have made it clear what the problems are about budget financing and how and how this control can be done. First of all, the problems of funding the state, and thus filling the budget, are, as one of the colleagues here said, in the field of the gray economy. With all the efforts to introduce discipline in tax collection, we are witnessing that not a small percentage is located in a sphere that cannot yet be controlled, so-called. The gray zone of the economy. This means that the flow of money, trade in goods, unfortunately, cannot be established, at least partly could contribute to budgeting, but what is warning, is that even international institutions, when talking about credit ratings, competent international institutions warn us that Serbia is in a warning zone when it comes to corruption. Corruption is something that is in any case negative for financial flows, or financial control. We have here from earlier on, as we have warned, a Serbian radical, a great evil that has prevailed over Serbia's finances, and above all of us, that is the import lobby. The import lobby is so strengthened that we now see even in these rebalances that more and more imports are increasing. It is not directly caused by the operation of this import lobby, there are also direct foreign investments, but in large part, when it comes to broad consumer goods, when it comes to even some technical goods, it is the result of the operation of the import lobby. Why are we Serbian radicals warning that this is a great danger? Because the import lobby is clearly leading monetary policy, and God has started to interfere well with fiscal policy, or to have an impact on fiscal policy. We're talking about the reason they're here, along with all these increases that are visible, the smallest increases in customs. Each country, including Serbia, is mostly financed from taxes, excise duties and customs. Here is the least increase in customs duties, and it is contradictory of indicators that say that imports have been increased. That's completely illogical. Thank you, Professor, for the suggestion, I'm glad you're closely following this exhibit, it's precious help. This contradiction is also seen in this case, when it comes to budget rebalance, customs duties have increased by 100 million dinars. It is not logical for imports to grow like this to be customs, but that is what Serbia suffers from, or power in Serbia. The government in Serbia has opened a wide door for importing goods from EU countries, justifying that these are our biggest partners, when it comes to finance, when it comes to trade. Yes, but ours, by the name of the quote, is better said by your partners, is asphyxiating us, killing our economy with the import of their products. That's the point, and every time we're here, we're taking the opportunity to indicate how dangerous that is. Customs must be reciprocally introduced, if anything, at least for food products. For us, agriculture and the domestic food industry cannot be competitive in the game with importers because everyone already knows, I guess the sparrows on the border know that the subsidies given by EU countries are much bigger than Serbia can now give for agriculture and food production. And customs are a very significant item, when it comes to budget financing, budgeting. We Serbian radicals claim that a minimum of 500m euros in Serbia can benefit from customs duties. Minimum. If this continues to be difficult, now that we see that the Lex specialis makes it even the law for those who build roads to be free of both customs and VAT and all that will be imported in the name of road construction. That's how we give in. When it comes to this one-time payment, we have to count on something that has been present so far, which is that public enterprises, such as Elektroprivreda... So far, she's been investing in the budget, and significant funds, and now she's not showing up at the same amount as before. It is another indicator that it is a very important public enterprise, which is twice important for Serbia's economy in some problems, not small, but major problems. When it comes to payment from the National Bank of Serbia, we must be aware that it will be smaller and smaller, or, as announced next year, it is possible not to make any payments from the National Bank of Serbia, because it is, they say, not a profitable organisation, but an authority that should run monetary policy and control it. When it comes to this spending party, there are two versions, i.e. two options that are being advocated. One option is that by increasing wages and pensions, the effect of personal consumption will be achieved. This personal consumption will contribute to the development of domestic economy in some ways and thus to an increase in GDP. On the other hand, there is a pledge that the largest part of the money should be invested, when it comes to budgets, budgets, preferably investments, because investments are those that will multiply drive the economy, economic growth and make GDP grow faster. Now that you look at each other, you can't be completely correct, economically looking, because poverty has taken so much wave in Serbia that it simply has to use every opportunity, as much as possible, to improve the standard of Serbian citizens. It is clear to us to Serbian radicals that this is done with November's salary, or as it is announced, that it will be November's salaries, because in March, the elections start in April, or elections are held, I apologize, elections are held, elections are held, and it is announced that it will be the basis for next year. It's a method used by every government, I'm not saying this is something special or extraordinary, when it comes to this ruling set. It is, after all, an opportunity provided by this budget rebalance that provides the opportunity to raise wages. Our remark, Serbian radicals, is that this is done chaoticly, randomly. Why? Because we've been telling you for a long time that you need to pass the pay grade law. A decision must be made which will clearly prescribe payment classes, that for those in the public sector, there is one criterion in public services, there are criteria how they will be paid and how their work, or their knowledge, will be valued. You're avoiding it. You're avoiding that, in some ways, you might be able to look at which the electoral body is more grateful, because otherwise I can't define that avoidance of you, but you're looking at how, in which way you get as many votes as possible, and then you've defined that one wide circle of medical workers, nurses, you increase the most, and, gentlemen, you're losing one very important fact, important, out of sight, which is that by banning employment you've caused a good part of the deficit when it comes to medical expertise. You're banned from the employment of medical personnel for a long time... You're smarter than everyone else, you don't have to talk. Pick up the mic, your mind's waiting for the public to hear. I see her, and you present her. Gentlemen, over a long period of time, by placing a ban on employment, you've led to so-called. Staff crisis. Now you want to stimulate overnight by increasing that layer of middle-educated medical staff the most. We hope that you will succeed, however, it is difficult to expect such effects because in medical centres, in hospitals the situation is catastrophic when it comes to staffing. In any case, there was room to raise salaries for those in public services, such as the police, such as other sectors, and then, gentlemen, you count that on the basis of these not so large, when viewed essentially, increases, that in the hope that next year the state will be able to pay regular salaries at this level. You hope that this election body will automatically round up the parties that are in power with the highest number. You must count on something called patience in Serbia. There is always patience in Serbia for power, and even the one that experimentes like you did at first, and then you think of cutting off pensioners for retirement, and letting the minister of traffic, the one disbanded, the one in itself, ruin 60m euros on the Greek ravine. You don't care, so let's let what's rarely come to see him in normal, not to say in a sober state, that he literally destroys dozens and tens of millions of euros on your roads, and here you know that pensioners are the biggest victims. Raise a monument when you're so grateful, and don't give them one-time help, at 5,000 grand, because that doesn't mean anything to them. It doesn't really mean anything to them, it doesn't mean anything to them, because you're waiting with that Swiss model, waiting for what Jackna says, when, you don't know, you're promising next year, and now you couldn't do it by an emergency procedure, so they're also the category of population that's the most endangered by nature, that they can get these increases as of November. There's no problem, what you've invested in investment, that's positive, but gentlemen, you're investing in the Moravia Corridor, you're investing in 13 billion, and two more billion that we've already defined haven't been spent. What do you promise? You promise to spend it by making an advance payment. Perhaps you will, but what increases the suspicion of us Serbian radicals, and the public, you have placed a tender for the construction of the Moravik Corridor, gave it to Bechtel, the US intelligence service directly in hand. You gave them 300 million, which is the difference between the price offered by Chinese companies and what was paid to Bechtel. Now you're doing everything, you're even releasing them from customs, you're even giving them advance payments, you're doing everything you can to get that Moravia corridor going. What if he doesn't? Money's gone. What you didn't do part of the bar, cheered up the pensioners and said – here, this Swiss model, which you are already announcing, will be in place so that November pensions can be accepted. No, you don't care. You don't care, you just care to achieve that effect before March or April, when the elections are, and then the promise when it goes through, what pains you, what you promised, or you didn't promise. It was in the history of Serbia, in earlier times, that fellow Mijatovic well knows, from history, he does not know personally, either when communists, communist agitators, the people raised up to the uprising, and then they were willing to approach them, and in all these false promises, even in those passive parts, they said you would all eat with golden spoons when the Socialist Revolution defeated, when we, as well as the communists in the Soviet Union, came to power. The people are watching, who doesn't care about living better at the time, especially with gold spoons, the war is over, the same propagator comes to the village and says – he starts giving a speech, they ask him – and where the golden spoons are, and he says wisely – manual labor, wait for order, I can't do everything at once. So do you. Obviously, this is in the context of this story, wait until next year, most likely next year, there will be an increase in pensions, that wages will be paid regularly. In doing so, gentlemen, the data here is inevitably saying we're losing GDP. It's shrinking against the one that's been projected. It's designed to be over 3%, and now we have a situation that after eight months is 2.8%. We have yet to receive what is and, as warningly so, the indicators clearly indicate that the decline of the economy is being recorded. There's a drop in power, there's a drop in mining, and it's worrying. It is one aggregate that pushes a lot when it comes to the economy, when it comes to filling Serbia's budget, especially when it comes to GDP. It is very important and important and you gentlemen know that Serbia needs much more than 4% on an annual basis, so that Serbia can count on some security in the future. Just because you're praised by the IMF, don't think we're a single case as a state, always keep in mind, we remind you of Argentina more than once. Argentine syndrome is for warning. When those from the World Bank and the IMF came to Argentina, they praised Argentina at the end of the 1990s, said the most prospective state, that it was the most creditworthy, that their currency was the most stable, that GDP in Argentina was literally in such a rush that no country in the world could follow them. When Argentina was over-indebted by those who praised it, they only told it – it is your duty for gentlemen to repay our loans, and how will you get out of these problems when it comes to the economy, when it comes to the functioning of the state, that is your problem, we are here to collect what you took on behalf of the loan. This all points to the fact that all these praises by the IMF should be accepted with a large reserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61353	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61354	Dear Chairman, I am advertising Article 107 as chairman you should have responded to sentences – what do you care, as a government that should work here on the head of its pensioners. We don't give a shit about those who left us our debts until 2012, and they've all been hiding behind this Vucic until he's implemented fiscal consolidation and the biggest problems in this country. Now, when they're supposed to support exactly this, the results that we have today in the budget, that simply our pensioners, if they're one-time compensation of 5,000 dinars, that in some way we actually meet these pensioners and show our gratitude for what they've suffered, now they're being attacked, which is why it wasn't done in some other way, instead of really supporting this policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61355	My colleague Tomic, I don't think I've violated the above-mentioned provisions of the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the Parliament in voting day to make a statement about it? (No) The word has a minister, Mr. Sinisha Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61356	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, I must react, given that we have heard a large number of arbitrary and incorrect information, so just for the sake of the citizens of Serbia and for the sake of you who are present here, to answer you and to give you the right information. So, the government of the Republic of Serbia runs a responsible economic policy. We have launched heavy economic reforms since 2014 and then our topics have been both deficits, and negative growth rates, and high public debt, and today, I repeat once again, we are talking about surpluses in the budget, we are talking about a fully stable and reduced public debt. We're talking about high growth rates and we're talking about reduced unemployment in our country. Therefore, responsible economic policy has led to these results. The difficult measures launched in 2014 have led to a surplus in the budget and today we are discussing a positive budget rebalancing. In no way will this stability and the results we have achieved be compromised. So in a responsible way and very carefully and we have defined the individual elements of this budget rebalance. I'm thinking too much of the salary increase in the public sector, I didn't just understand the comment on whether it was against the increase in salaries for nurses, so I understood in the end. We think nurses should have a 15% salary increase. We'd love to have a chance together for an even bigger salary increase, but that's why we're going to raise that salary year after year. Let me remind the citizens of Serbia, so from 1 November of this year we are going to raise wages between 8% and 15% in the public sector. Last year, this year's increase was 8% on average, last year was 8.6%. So, for the third year in a row, we have been talking about increasing wages and realising the increase in public sector wages, but by leading a smart and responsible economic policy that we do not in any way question economic stability through an increase in these salaries. As a result, since we have heard incorrect information here, over the last five years 12,000 healthcare workers have found jobs in the health system of the Republic of Serbia, 12,000 new employees since we have heard a comment on a reduction in the number of employees or if I am not wrong about the ban on employment. As far as the import lobby is concerned, we heard and here I quote a sentence, he says – import increases in rebalancing. I didn't quite understand what it means, but because of the citizens of Serbia and for your sake, honourable MPs, I will read the exact information relating to the increase in imports and the increase in exports, or statistics related to both imports and exports to our country in the first eight months of this year. So, the export of goods from our country in the first eight months of this year, it generates an annual growth of 6.9% stable, a 6.9%, especially by slowing down the economies of our largest foreign trade partners in Germany and Italy, but we still have strong exports, and it shows exactly how justified foreign direct investment policy was, where we were absolute champions in the world last year, because all those factories that are opening up were exporting and oriented and from Serbia exporting to the whole world. Effective investments launched last year will only be seen when these factories are completed and put into full capacity. On imports, imports increased by 8.7% in the first eight months, but be careful now, the fastest growth is recorded in imports of equipment of 14.6% or 260m euros. Then, for imports of consumable goods, 14.2% and reproductive products, these are raw materials that are necessary for the production of 5.9%. At an absolute amount of import equipment of 260.2m euros, imports of 480m euros, hence 740m euros, are imports of equipment and repromated, or raw materials for production. It's just telling you how much business activity is increasing in our country, how much economy is taking big steps forward. So import is growing, the healthy and healthy component of imports is growing, and this is equipment for new factories that are being built in our country and raw materials to raise production from month to month. So these are the facts about so-called. import lobby. As far as the money is concerned, we've heard this, about the release, about the VAT. To understand what this is about, let's say it is and let's say it's about ignorance. So, in the Bill on Value Added Tax, you have one member that we define is related to the Moravia Corridor, where in the case of the construction of the Moravia Corridor, the contractor is exempt from the obligation to pay the value added tax. We as a state finance the construction of that highway. Imagine what it would look like, I'm going to say it openly, insanely, if we took an expensive loan or if we took some credit, to get in charge of paying someone to run the VAT, and that he would give us that VAT back the next day. We are responsible for saying – wait, don't do it, don't take a bigger loan to pay the VAT that goes into our budget anyway, but we will do it nicely to net one and the other positions, not to pay the interest and the amount to be charged for paying VAT. So responsible economic policy. We take care of every dinar so that we take care of VAT payments as well. After all, I said at the beginning of my presentation, that the budget rebalance and we work partly because we have an increased VAT and a realisation of VAT during this year. As far as the growth rate is concerned, we stay at our 3.5% GDP growth rate for this year. I'll remind you, in July, it's 4.4%, we're waiting for information for August. These are the talks we're going to have with the IMF. Last year we had a 4.3% growth rate. So one of the highest top 10 in Europe and the largest in the last 10 years in our country. Just through the investment programme that President Vukic announced, through these investments in the Moravia Corridor and other infrastructure projects, we want to increase that growth rate and besides, I say, we have a negative external impact from the slowdown of economies in countries that are our largest external trading partners. To end up with the Swiss model, the comment was – we don't care, or – you don't care, I don't want to comment, I think this government has shown how much it cares about our oldest citizens. Last year we promised to find the right, best possible pension indexation system. It is a Swiss model and this model will be applied from 1 January 2020. This model implies, once again, that pension growth is related to salary growth and inflation growth in relation to 50-50, so the most just model that will provide long-term predictability for our oldest citizens in terms of pension levels and how these pensions will comply with the inflation rate of 1 January 2020. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61357	Thank you. Right on the line, MP Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61358	Nicely defended by the ministers. To help you, we Serbian radicals, our proposal is to make the minimum wage in Serbia 37,000 dinars, is that a minimum consumer basket used by each Serbian citizen. Set it up, we'll congratulate you. Secondly, we, Mr. Minister, have no intention of manipulating here. Imagine the effect Mr. Mali would have, because of his last name Mali, not like this, if, for example, the Moravia Corridor had been given domestic tolls. Imagine the effect that would have been. The domestic tolls, without a job, have no opportunity anywhere to participate, are no longer competitive, have no references, and you bring strangers. You've subordinated everything to the Moravia Corridor. It takes a Moravia corridor, but not to throw money around like this. As far as medical personnel are concerned. Don't manipulate us, we're not against employment or nurses or anyone, but Mr. Minister, look at the reality of hospitals, ask people who are of this profession, it's a rare opportunity to have a complete team to operate on patients, it's a rare opportunity to meet them in Novi Sad as well. Now there's a risk of cardiosurgery, that you have potentially ready teams, that people are leaving. You can say whatever you want here, reality is like that. You made the decision to ban employment. One surgeon is not created by hiring him today, and he will operate immediately tomorrow. It is created over a period of many years, and you made a decision a few years ago that there was no employment, you stopped employment. That's the point of the problem. Nurses go to be housekeepers, nurses, and they don't work in Serbia. It's not us, the Serbian radicals, that the opposition is to blame, but you are responsible for the authorities. As far as public debt is concerned. Mr. Minister, when you came to power, if I can count on your political option now to be current, when it came... Serbia's public debt was 15 billion, now 23 and 24 billion, respectively. Don't tell us Serbian radicals the story that you've cut. First you increased it by nine billion, and now you cut it by 500 million. About unemployment. That's what the polling agency did to your unemployment rate. This is not the result of some real research by the Republic Bureau of Statistics, it's a professional agency from Germany that's surveyed on the basis of a sample of 1,100 and 1,200, and the questions are examples of work- have you worked? The man says, "I did one day, they're taking him as an employee." Don't do this, Mr. Mali, but we Serbian radicals are the ones who want Serbia's progress, and we want to cross here, not manipulate it.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61359	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mr. Sinisha Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61360	Thank you very much. I'd make it right again, probably because of the lack of information, less because of ignorance. So, to quote, you said – we suggest that the minimum salary be 37,000 dinars, to help pensioners. I don't see a direct connection between those two sizes, but I guess you do see it somewhere and you do. In any case, we are going to increase the minimum labour price in absolute terms never higher for the Republic of Serbia, from 27,022 dinars to 30,022 dinars from January 1st next year. In the last few years, we've increased and every year we increase that minimum labour price, but just because of your information, that minimum labour price has nothing to do with pensions. In terms of reality in our health, just looking at the reality of health care, and we've decided that the highest percentage increase has nurses. For the third year in a row, we raise salaries in the public sector. We invest a billion euros in health infrastructure, on the one hand, to improve the conditions in which Serbian citizens are being treated, to improve the level of service, health services, and on the other hand, to motivate these people to stay perfected and, of course, expect even higher salaries in Serbia from year to year. So, that's real. You can't do that in conditions where you have negative growth rates, when you have high deficits, when you have a huge public debt, you can do that when you have stable finances, in a way that doesn't endanger the stability of your public finances. On public debt, a relative public debt ratio relative to GDP is always seen. Why? Because the absolute amount of it says a little bit. For the past few years, we have had huge investment in public infrastructure, we continue with these investments. It's very important not to repeat the 2008 mistake when you're in debt, not you, but those before us, to pay off pensions that aren't earned. That's why we almost went bankrupt in 2013. When you're in debt and you invest that money in what increases your GDP, like roads, like other infrastructures, railways, then you have growth rates that justify something like that, and then the growth rate is higher than the level of your debt. And you, let me put it peoplely, carry that burden of public debt a lot easier, like we are now, 2013, 2014. In 2015, I apologize, there was over 70% of our public debt in GDP, now it's 51%. We tend to cut it down with a very responsible policy where the money we make invests in what stimulates our growth, and we don't throw money in a well, like some of us did before. And finally, around this polling agency that you mentioned, from Germany, that same polling agency was also doing surveys in 2013, so the result of these polls was 25.9% of the unemployment rate, and now that you're doing the polls, the unemployment rate is 10.3%. So, it's the same methodology, it's just a much better result, which is exactly what the government of the Republic of Serbia's economic policy is talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61361	Right on line, MP Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61362	Mr. Minister, in that enthusiasm, in that flight when you explain politics, the financial policy run by the government, you must not give up, at least personally, you must not give up earlier periods. You are, in some ways, with some other colleagues, the continuity of the government since 2000. Now you're telling us what happened in 2008. So your ideologist named Mladjan Dinkic ran a complete economic and financial policy, so now you're explaining to us what happened in 2008. You have come, the people have given you trust, in fact, to be exact, the people have given their trust to Alexander Wolfich. He is also someone in the future who will bring you victories in both the local and the regional and the republican. You'll never stop to be on those lists and there's no problem, he's the biggest responsibility. But, Mr. Minister, in that enthusiasm, you had to explain one fact -- last year GDP was a record, as you say, the best in the region. There is nothing at local level for you, within the framework of the Republic of Serbia, is just a region for you. You have so much ambition to be dominant, but you didn't say it was compared to 2017, when it was a catastrophic situation in agriculture, Minister, don't skip any data. Of course, it should be commended that you have introduced discipline, tax collection, budgeting compared to earlier periods. But nine billion differences in credit, Minister, is a significant momentum. Mr. Mali, always keep in mind, 15 to 24, that's nine billion euros. With nine billion euros, your budget is complete, Mr. Minister, 10 billion euros, or the expenditure side is 11 billion euros. It's the annual budget. That's how much you owe Serbia extra when it comes to public debt. And we need to cut public debt, we're up for it. There are also changes in the accounting methodology, Mr. Minister, when it comes to a reduction in public debt, when it comes to bonding for a dollar or for the euro, there is everything, but the fact is that it is reduced by 500,000 euros. Now 23 billion and 500 000 euros are public debt, and 24 was. It should be reduced because of all of us in Serbia, far from it, but don't jump either. I'm guessing it's not the ignorance, it's the lack of information.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61363	The word has a minister, Mr. Sinisha Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61364	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, I don't know if it's ignorance or ignorance, here, I can ask you, if you'll allow me. So if the participation of our public debt is now 51% in GDP, in 2013, it was 79%, 78%, so did the public debt increase less or more compared to GDP growth? I guess less. So you're kind of forgetting that you're also borrowing money to invest in those projects that bring growth to your economy. Well, you've just answered the question yourself -- yes, in the past period, we've been in debt and debt, in the way we invested in projects that allowed us to grow our economy, so GDP is our gross social product, now 45.7 billion euros. How big was 2013? So, we're growing GDP, and that's the most important thing. The ratio between public debt and GDP, not absolute amount. So what are these in America going to say, then, with a thousand billion in debt, to say they're over-indebted? No, they say-- our growth carries it. So the absolute amount of public debt has absolutely nothing to do with the state of your economy, unless you are over-indebted, which we are not, and the indicator of that is the participation of public debt in GDP. In the end, the growth rate for last year of 4.3%, otherwise it was revised to 4.4%, but it doesn't matter, you didn't even know it. It's not partial or it's not just agricultural production. And how about this year, then, where did 3.5% of the growth rate come from? So here you have again the growth of the food industry and the growth of the construction industry and the growth of agriculture and all other activities, despite the negative external environment that we are facing because of these trade wars and everything else. Please, once again, absolutely Alexander Vukic won the trust of the people of Serbia, I am proud to be part of his team. I had nothing to do with the ideologist you mentioned, and fortunately I never had, nor will I. In terms of continuity, there is a clear discrepancy between the policy of the previous government and that led by Aleksandar Vukic as Prime Minister and now as president of the state. Therefore, economic policy and results cannot be compared. Only one who doesn't want to see it can't see it. We used to talk about deficits, public debt, negative growth rates. We're talking about positive growth rates today. I was proud when we broke through that Gredile ravine at last, so we got together on the highway with Northern Macedonia. So why hasn't someone done it before? So why didn't someone think of a positive rebalancing before, so that they had both wages and pensions and that they had money for investments? Well, which someone had previously had no surplus in the budget for the first eight months and 46.6 billion dinars, but the third year in a row, if everything is the same and if there is no disconuity. So, in October of the month, we open the eastern leg towards Bulgaria, October or November. Guys, we finished Corridor 11, Milos the Great, 74 years we waited for the end of that Corridor, here in a week, two, three days we leave with the Moravia Corridor. So, the dreams we've been dreaming about now, we can make them come true, we have stable finances, we invest in the Clinical Center in Belgrade, the one in Nis, he's moving to Vojvodina and Novi Sad. We build and work at every step of this country. You're telling me about local development, so you have factories in Nis, you also have in Loznica, you have in Subotica, New Sad and Belgrade, you have in the King, you have everywhere. The unemployment rate is 10.3 is the unemployment rate in the Republic of Serbia. The surplus we have achieved, the surplus of the republican budget, if it has more money and a larger budget, and of course you have a larger budget of local self-government for their investments, and add a national investment programme of over 12 billion, to finish the sewerage network of the missing and water network and waste water treatment plants and local roads again to pave the way for regional and everything else. It's called economic development. You can't make any decisions on the issue of the economy if you don't have the same reflection in the growth rate of your economy, and it's safe when I look at these negative 2.7% in 2009, etc. our 4.3% for whatever reason it's bigger. Well, this year 3.5% is higher again, so in 2017 it was 2.0% higher than minus coma 2.7%, and in 2016 3.3%, again greater than minus 2.7%, in 2009. So, there's no coincidence that the economy can sometimes happen to find oil somewhere, so it can take out some black gold for you to make some money, but it rarely happens. The economy is built gradually and as a puzzle each piece should be combined into a single continent called a successful economy. Is this about fiscal consolidation measures, fiscal policy, monetary policy, I was just talking about, so remember 2011/2012. For years, all the businessmen talked about domestic differences, now nobody's talking about it. They talked about inflation, nobody talks about it. Now we're talking about, let's just see that the state can help even more through increasing its credit rating, because that way we'll have cheaper sources of funding. Cheaper sources of funding for us as a company mean better and more opportunities for investment, we will invest more money in the end, we will grow faster, we will employ people, we as a state it suits, more money in the budget and you are making a whole circle called the development of a single economy. We have negative external factors, Germany slows down, Italy slows down, the trade war will or won't, China, America, Germany, how, what, and we look at ourselves. We see that our economic policy achieves the greatest possible effects on our growth, through the growth of demand, i.e. consumption, therefore, pension growth, wage growth, and through our investments our investment. What's he into? In what's the biggest multiplier, it's two, so on one dinar investment in the building, in infrastructure you have another dinar that's growing your GDP, because of the other industries that are going to do so. So we go with the highways Preljina – Požega, Moravia Corridor and everything else, absolutely one responsible policy that fits into our country's development strategy. Sustainable development, positive balances, stable public finances, stable monetary policy and higher employment and living standards for Serbian citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61365	Thank you. Right on line, MP, Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61366	Thank you Minister for these few moments for taking me personally to another world, I thought I was living in another country, but the bottom line is next. The whole controversy is among us when it comes to the SRS proposal and its programme commitment, when invested in investments, which in any case brings and contributes to GDP growth, this results in a multiple effect. You are right, as is the case in the building, and when it comes to road construction, we have insisted and insisted and we will not give up the fact that domestic roadways should be included in the construction of roads. These stories that it's an eminent company that does it, leave those stories for another time. When it comes to GDP, Mr. Minister, you brought out the data that GDP has fallen to 2.8 because a drop has been recorded when it comes to electricity, when it comes to mines. You're here in your material listed, look, Mr. Minister, I'm assuming that the essence is uninformed, you don't have a lot of time, the IMF is there, you're here to indicate that the processing complex is in the remont and that's why the crash was recorded. That's your data. The electricity industry records a minor constant decline. That's very important, Mr. Mali. When it comes to division, when it comes to wages and pensions, we just insist, you could do it, make a decision on pay grade and nothing else. You could have brought an emergency procedure here, adopted that Swiss model and nothing else, Mr. Minister. Why is she eating so much? Why do you honor us when you provide information? You're taking out the data that caused the VAT crash because the electricity industry isn't working as planned. Because coal mines don't work as planned. You're not going to say coal is now the 2014 flood, you're not going to talk about it. You're not going to say that it's in the processing industry, that it's expected in the last quarter that it's going to increase so much, that GDP will come to 3.5%. Don't, Mr. Minister. As for the absolute value of the debt, it was 24 billion, now it is 23 and we want to stress, GDP growth brings good to Serbia, but real growth.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61367	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mr. Sinisha Mali.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61368	Dear MPs, I hope that we are reading the same information and I will now read you a very careful growth in the electricity sector this year and, in particular, the growth related to the activity of coal exploitation and electricity production, where we have heard that there is a decline. So in August, the total industry achieved an annual growth in the physical volume of production by 0.5%, Mr. Mircic. Growth is mainly determined by the movement of mining but also by the electricity sector, which, compared to August of the previous year, saw a growth of 17.5% and 4.5% respectably. A significant growth in production in coal exploitation and a solid increase in electricity production defined a positive contribution from the electricity sector of 1.9%, August of last year. So I really don't know what numbers you're talking about and which cuts you're talking about, but maybe you're right about indexing pensions, I think you were somewhere last year at this time when we adopted the 2019 budget, so I guess you saw that we indexed pensions for 2019 and did it the right way, and this year we promised for the next new formula. So, pensioners are not cut off by an increase in November or December 2018 for 2019, and we are now, and we are talking, not now, but in the 2020 budget, we will also talk about the indexation of pensions, i.e. the 1 January 2020 increase. So, nice, normal, logical trail of steps. The promise of one we have fulfilled and the promise of another which we now fulfill. Thank you very much. (Milorad Mircic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61369	You have no right to a replica, colleague Mircic. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61370	I thank the chairman. I don't want to usurp anyone's right to a replica, but I think we've heard about it, and government representatives must be used to MPs, although there's relatively little opposition here for various reasons, that they won't be thrilled with every indicator and every data that's being presented, that they'll have some different vision and some grudge, sometimes correct, sometimes less correct. In any case, in this presentation, I will limit myself to a few things that the Government itself, or the Minister here, is proud and that are highlighted as the most important contribution to the economic policy of this government. In essence, the rebalancing story is an opportunity to discuss the government's economic policy and there would be no such rebalancing if the government didn't think there was anything to boast about and that she felt that now was a good moment here and in front of the public, both in front of the MPs and in front of her balances and those things she was proud of. That's why I'm going to go from what this government and all the ministers are putting out their prides in order to get along with it in part, and in part to trouble some of these items. After that, I'll make a few of my main remarks about this budget rebalance. Otherwise, I say, it's like a new budget and it would take hours, but it would take us hours to discuss the details so we could mention everything, so I'm going to go to the most important. There are three things that I see as something that the government could also praise the Ministry of Finance and that are positively and conditionally said, things in the economic balances of this government. So, I don't think you should be criticised, nor do I think that everything you do is bad, and everything the opposition says is good, I'm just sure it's not the other way around, that it won't be like everything the opposition says is bad, and everything the government does or the government is good. But we suffer from this one-sidedness and this black-and-white picture, and it's not just this period right now and this current government, although I think that now these divisions are becoming more and more intolerable and is increasingly jeopardising normal dialogue over the welfare of society and the state and normal dialogue between us and not only when it comes to this budget, even when it comes to this budget rebalancing. First thing, praise for fiscal stabilisation. Right, fiscal stabilisation is something that the government can be proud of, that is, this authority, it's done, and I'm finding it, but after each of these commendations, one but follows. Second, the country's credit rating has been increased. That's right. On several occasions, leading credit agencies carried out and gave a positive court on Serbia's credit rating and mainly turned it around and perceived it as positive. A third thing, no doubt, but I'm saying, there's always someone there, but it is a reduction in unemployment, a no doubt reduction in unemployment, or a decline in unemployment rate, and there's something that this government is proud of and that I, conditionally speaking, give credit to, but. Now that, but you'll like less. As far as fiscal stabilisation is concerned, I think it's positive, but I don't think she had to at all, nor should it be achieved at the cost of cutting wages and pensions. I think the reduction in wages and pensions was actually wrong, that it only contributed minimally to fiscal stabilisation, and much more contributed to some other things. This is good for political or demagogue, and it is always thanks to the oldest citizens, the president of the government and the ruling majority because they have borne the greatest burden, etc. They didn't bear the greatest burden, they all put up with a great burden, all the citizens of this country, and I'm going to explain it right now, so the minister will fix me if he gets to pay attention to what I'm saying is that most pensioners and most pensioners aren't actually reduced pensions. Out of millions and 700,000 pensioners, this is a salary rarely mentioned, of millions and 700,000 pensioners less than half of them are reduced pensions. Of which, also a large number only minimally, only for a thousand, two, or three thousand dinars. So that measure actually put only those at risk, I'm not going to tell high, decent or mediocre pensions. About a million pensioners have never been reduced, and this constant appreciation, in fact, serves to praise their own electoral body in some way, disrupting and mobilize. They've been punished with mediocre or decent, tolerable pensions. The same goes for wages. The redistribution could avoid that measure, such a reduction in wages and pensions. So, fiscal stabilisation has been achieved, but it has been achieved by its burden and that is the difference compared to what the minister said in his opening statement, not by saying that we have not increased the public's burden. On the contrary, Mr. Minister. That's my point. You've been increasing the public's burdens, not just yours, but I'm talking about power after 2012. The VAT has been increased, excise duties have been introduced and where they have never been, on products where there have never been excise duties, on which even in the world most often there are no excise duties. You've introduced electricity excises, increased excise duties on oil derivatives, I'm not talking about your government right now, I'm talking about government after 2012, because you're kind of reporting here and you're proud of the overall results, the economic results of this government, the non-alcoholic drinks, a lot of it. We now have in Belgrade this electricity tax, i.e. for a combustion plant that should solve the problem of polluting the capital and the dump, also at the height of several hundred dinars a month. So, what I'm saying is, to a large extent, very skillfully, technically and populistly, this government has managed to transfer to citizens most of the burden of fiscal stabilisation, and they have borne that burden. But so slightly insensitive, undetectable, especially control and domination of the media then and the grudges or those who wanted to distract it, that they were criticizing, they didn't actually arrive. So in some ways, citizens are a little confused, on the one hand they feel they don't live well, and on the other hand they don't know because they hear all the time in the media that everything is great and that all the balances are economically great and good and we're progressing in the right direction. Increased credit ratings are up, you're proud of it. It can be a consequence, probably a part of fiscal stabilisation, but it can also be a consequence of the trust that this government, your associates and you enjoy in those international institutions. It is possible that they simply perceive, that they have a country, their own people, or people they can rely on, and that in this sense their investments and their jobs, their loans will not be compromised. Therefore, it may be a positive and favourable credit rating, because they experience this set close to themselves, i.e. that financial institution. Finally reducing unemployment. There was talk here in the polls whether the methodology had changed, whether the methodology had not changed. There were different theories there, but I find, understand and accept that unemployment has been reduced. I just don't know why you're avoiding saying it, and not just you, but other government presidents, where unfortunately, the biggest cause of this unemployment reduction is the fact that a large number of citizens, right at work age, have left the country and is leaving the country soon. So, that reduction of unemployment ten percent, maybe with... The drop below 10%, which you are so proud of, is, in fact, the biggest result of the terrible spillout, not to say the exodus of a working-age population around the world, not only in Germany, not only in the EU, but also in Russia and China, and even in some Asian and African countries. A lot of young people, everyone can see that when they turn around, friends of my kids, kids of my friends, classes where my friends work, departments get decimated, they go mass, or their parents. The first class that enrolls 30 students, the fourth grade or the seventh grade barely two thirds of them end up in that class, and about a third of the students leave on average, not to change the place of residence in terms of the city, move, but to leave the country. That's the unhappiness, not to say the sad fact about the look of a positive trend in reducing unemployment. Far from the fact that there is no exodus in other countries of the region, that it is not a broader problem, I don't think at all that it's only this current government now, but when you're proud of it, when we're talking about these positive things, then you have to take a fair look at the other side of that medal. So, the huge outflow of the population and that of young people, young people, working people, which is why fewer children are born, fewer champions in our schools, which is also measurable and very exact, can show how many fewer champions are registered now this year compared to, say, 2012, or even 2014. 2015. So that's what I wanted to tell you about these things that you're proud of, that I'm not part of arguing about, but, on the other hand, I'm a little bit of a problem with what your positive or seemingly positive trends are resting on. Now just a few short questions, I want to leave a few minutes at the end of the discussion if I get to say something. You have escaped, and I see that a previous colleague has asked you to answer a clear and loud question – what about the pay grade, Mr. Minister? Why is he late for the pay grade? Two, three times you've been asked, and each time you've kind of skipped to answer that. They were promised, we MPs remember here for the previous year, so for this year, so now for 2020. Now be quiet about it. So, as otherwise announced and announced, will payment classes be introduced on January 1st 2020 or, as I believe, won't be introduced? Why is this important, and why are you avoiding the answer? Because one part of this problem and the objections that can be put on this budget rebalance would be removed if we had paid classes in place. This would ensure a fairer distribution of income among citizens on the basis of a clear and measurable criterion. The second question that I also want to ask about this is – what about the ban, or the abolition of the employment ban? You can't tell from this rebalancing if she's getting ready, although she's been announced and promised. Of course, the ban on employment is being violated, often justified, for justifiable reasons, but it also leaves room for discretionary possibility for it to be bypassed in accordance with some of the interests of the authorities or authorities of nearby organisations or companies under the control of the government or the ruling party. However, at the expense of this proposal for rebalancing, the Fiscal Council has made remarks that are even more severe than those that I or my colleague have made in a moment. The fiscal council assessed this rebalancing proposal, i.e. an increase in wages, as unfounded in economic growth, and therefore is excessive, fiscally unsustainable and irresponsible. Thus, unfounded in economic growth, too much, fiscally unsustainable and irresponsible, and in particular they have taken on financial assistance for pensioners of 5,000 dinars, believing that this is not a good measure of social policy. I don't think that, that you'll be glad to hear it now, what you're saying is the Fiscal Council is a sacred cow, the Holy Scriptures, and that now we have to stick to it godlyly, but it's some experts, experts who, I hope, and you respect, and their remarks have to be taken into account. In particular, when it comes to this objection and the criticism of the Fiscal Council for this financial aid to pensioners of 5,000 dinars, I think it's an excessive concern and criticism. I support that measure, although it is, just because it's one-time, and then for some other reason it's a bit controversial and a little bit of pre-election marketing, it smells like a pre-election atmosphere, like some kind of Santa Claus, the government that goes ahead of Christmas holidays and shares all pensioners with a flat-rate, linearly by 5,000 dinars. So that looks a little bit like it, but, despite that, I think it's good. People like to get such a bonus and not just pensioners, but I remember how my schoolmates, my schoolmates, were also happy when they got overtime, I think it's a similar amount of financial. So, it's not a problem and it won't bring down the budget of that measure, just please, I remind and call, and you yourself were saying that these pensions are finally arranged in one system way. You just promised that Swiss model and the Swiss formula and I think it's okay. I would remind you that over the past year or two days some of the opposition colleagues sitting here on the right of me also suggested something similar, mentioned exactly that Swiss model, but it was ignored. Now you've appreciated it, and I think it's good, but I say this looks a little bit like, this system that the government once pulls out, some categories gives certain bonuses, it looks a little like that good Sultan Suleiman or Harun el Rashida who goes with a bag of treasure and extracts and shares with their subjects who were good. Why, despite the objections of the Fiscal Council, do I not feel that the problem of these 5,000 dinars will be obtained by pensioners? Because the rebalance of this budget shows that the total cost of the aid is about nine billion dinars, and as much as nine billion dinars, amounts to subsidies for loans indexed in Swiss francs. So this rebalancing is predicted that the banks, or the law that we adopted here in the spring, are supposed to be participating the state in solving the problems in Swiss loans and thus dissipating them. I supported it, as well as most of my colleagues here, but then, it was April this year, I submitted an amendment requiring the cost of conversion and debt reduction from Article 4 of this law to fall on the burden of a bank that is converting according to that article. So these conversion costs fall on the bank's burden. Of course, some other colleagues have submitted similar amendments. These amendments are not respected. What does that mean in translation? In fact, you did not adopt a proposal that the burden of this Swiss credit conversion falls on banks, but the state has taken over and now we see in this rebalancing of nine billion dinars, just as much as it will cost this bonus or one-time aid to pensioners, will be allocated only to solve, or to help banks solve problems in Swiss. When this power, ultimately, and the president, agrees so well with Orban, the Prime Minister of Hungary, why didn't you take the model from Hungary as discussed and negotiated with the banks. He dealt with his problem with leading European banks in a very efficient way, with a lot of disdain for financial institutions, and eventually succeeded. That is why there is, among other things, so much support among the citizens of Hungary. So, as much as pension funds are allocated, we're going to spend that on Swiss people. With that in mind, let me also say the last of my most important remarks about this budget rebalance. This Swiss thing is just one illustration. I asked about the pay grade. Why are they important, and why am I now moving on to the last and key grudge? Because both this rebalancing and the entire economic policy of this government, I am so experiencing and I don't think I'm wrong, in some ways they're being directed in a bad way, one of the wrong directions that seems to be just, and it's essentially very unfair and it's precisely according to the most active, most valuable representatives of this society. I don't mean any elite. I mean ordinary people and citizens who worked, taught schools, did their job fairly, whether the word was that they retired or worked in the public, state sector. Namely, as the Fiscal Council says, and I agree with it, it is too crushed, or reduced, continuously reduces this space between minimum earnings and those most active social layers, such as doctors, such as professors, such as those who have in some way invested both time and years and life, or civil servants, ultimately, to be committed and professionally doing their job. The pay grade would have been removed -- how many schools you have, plus the complexity of the work you're doing. This would depend on your salary, not on the goodwill of a government that is in some way adapting and raising to its voters. It's a key observation. That's why the young are leaving you, Mr. Minister, despite the increase you've predicted, unfortunately, I'm afraid it won't help much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61371	Thank you, colleague Vukadinovic. The word has a proposing representative, Minister Sinisha Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61372	Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I am pleased to agree that the fiscal stability and consolidation that we have ended is very important. Also, from your presentation, I got the impression that the Swiss formula we proposed, which will be used to index pensions, is also a good thing, so obviously we have a consensus on those few things. As far as paying classes are concerned, I agree in principle with you that this is a very important area that needs to be properly arranged, but I'm also going to ask you a question. Do you know anyone who's in charge of introducing paying classes? Who's in charge of introducing paying classes? Here, ask the public administration employees after we talk to them. Just tell me who's in? If they're all up for it then we assume we won't have any trouble introducing those pay classes. Here's to not betting, we'll see how it goes. In any case, if you do know, the Treasury Department ends the entire database by the end of the year. The agreement we have and which is in agreement with the IMF that by half next year, we're going to introduce payment classes into public administration so don't worry about it. And we'll sort it out, but we'll talk in the meantime to see who's for who's not for it. It's about a ban on employment. You've used one expression, you've bypassed the ban, the ban doesn't go beyond because there's no ban, there's only control of employment. I just gave the information that over the past five years, 12,000 new medical workers have been employed only in the health sector. So there's no employment ban, there's employment control. But what is important is that the citizens of Serbia should hear, as I had a meeting with representatives of the World Bank before I came to the Serbian Parliament today. Together with them and IMF representatives, we are working on a methodology which, as you know, the Max Number of Employees Act ceases to apply this year. So, it's just that, let me say, the employment control that we agreed to carry out and that we're going to carry out in the next 12 months, until, to what period, I'm sorry, there's not a proper methodology that needs to be adopted at last in a system way to regulate the public administration employment process that involves and defining a strategy for each individual ministry, defining the human resources plan, the way of motivation, the way in which employees work and everything else is evaluated. So, as agreed with the World Bank and the IMF, we're doing it in the next few months. I have no problem sharing this with you, with the obligation that we have until the end of next year to adopt this modified methodology, concept or framework of employment and be the de facto idea of leadership and guidelines for further employment. As far as your assessment is concerned, there was something casual about 5,000 dinars of one-time aid to the pensioners. There's nothing extravagant about our economic policy. What our goal is, on the one hand, to raise the quality of Serbia's citizens' living standards. We include people who work in public administration and pensioners and through raising the minimum labour price, all those who are employed in our country. We have so much balance sheet space for those 5,000 dinars without jeopardizing the financial stability of our economy. We fully work responsibly and approach this problem in a responsible way. As for your comment, which is about reducing unemployment. You said it was the result of most people leaving Serbia. I wouldn't agree with that with you. Here's the information I'll read you. Employees aged 15 to 64, so the number of employees in the Republic of Serbia, not the number of unemployed, is this indicator to you in favour of how many people are employed from year to year. That is why the unemployment rate is lower, and I do not say that there is no departure of people from Serbia. A moment ago, you yourself said in a large number of other countries. We have a healthy growth of employees who are the basis for the economic growth we've been making for a few years back. So in 2014, total employees aged 15 to 64 were 2,487,400, 2016 2,595,000, 2018 2,675,800, and in 2019 in the second quarter of 2,746,300. So, very precisely, we're growing the number of employees. The number of unemployed is automatically falling, but not due to the departure of people from our country, because I repeat again, we have a healthy increase in employees from 2,487,400 in 2014 to 2,746,300 in the second quarter of this year. Of course, our goal is to fight for every new job, for every new investor, to increase the number of employees from month to month, thus continuing with also a responsible policy that is overly focused on the number of young people who are unemployed to find a reason and are motivated to stay in Serbia. That's why we're going, and you heard a dozen days ago from the Prime Minister, I was at that press conference when we showed and made a decision on new tax reliefs and the launch of your business, especially for those young people, if you remember since October of last year, if you've finished college or school, you start your business, you don't pay taxes or contributions to Serbia for a year. It's our way of motivateing them to start their own business and stay. I can't remember the exact figures now, but in 2013, our overall unemployment was 25.9%, now it's 10.3%. Total youth unemployment was over 50%. It's about 20 or something now. So it's still huge, extremely high, but twice as low as just five years ago, and we have to fight for those young and older, of course, to stay here, to make their dreams come true in Serbia, not Australia, Canada, America, or I don't know where else. This is exactly what we do through this responsible economic policy, through a gradual increase in wages, an increase in pensions, through the possibility of employment, through attracting foreign and domestic, of course, direct investments, through the construction of new highways, new technological parks, new hospitals, new kindergartens, new schools, and thus we will continue to deal with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61373	Thank you, Minister. Comrade Vukadinović, would you like a replica? (Jorge Vukadinović: Yes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61374	Well, if we had talked like this since the beginning of the term of office, we might have agreed on some things. Like I said, I don't deny the results of fiscal stabilisation, but I'm slowing down this salary cuts and pensions. I'm not slowing down an increased credit rating, but I'm slowing down on the basis of which it was achieved. When it comes to reducing unemployment, we obviously disagree. I think that's the primary thing, though, unfortunately, the outflow and that's young people. So if, from this percentage, about 24-5% of what unemployment is now among young people, if you added to that the percentage of those who have gone, although there are quite relatively young people, there go Malta, not my peers or something younger than me, people at 40 and 50 years old. The young people leave the most, after all. So you got that number of people who went from Serbia to this percentage of how unemployed they are now, you saw that the percentage, unfortunately, is very similar to the upper unemployment rate. As for Swiss, there's no problem, I'm just saying why you didn't bring them in earlier. By the way, I support it, and I know it's good, I know that a good part of the pensioner's association supported it. Pay grade. You said who's against it. That may be interesting, but it's hard to deal with right now. So there will be delays again, not since January 1st, that's what you actually told me. You say being from the middle of next year. In the middle of next year, so after the election, and I knew exactly, I even bet myself informally with some friends that there's no way that before the election the government would actually move on to pay grade. For what? Because the majority of SNS voters or voters would be threatened or at least partially threatened by the introduction of payment classes. So that's why I knew this introduction wouldn't happen. Some complain, you say, yes, but I'm responsible here and here my colleagues threw, most people are for it. Those who have found themselves in public enterprises, agencies, government or paravalading or independent, or so to say, or quaz-nezavinsim, who have terrible salaries with high school, with primary school, cleaners in NIS compared to cleaning lady, I don't know, in the government or I don't know a clerk or a dactylographer in the government, or a dactylographer in a public enterprise. So that's why we need paying classes to avoid arbitration and injustice, essentially because of who happened and who hired whom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61375	Thank you, colleague Vukadinovic. The word has a proposing representative, Minister Sinisha Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61376	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, what does the Financial Times say, why has Serbia made so much progress in attracting foreign direct investment, and why is there a credit rating increase following us? Not for the reasons that you have stated, and I will quote once again -- the reason they see it is in smart and encouraging tax policy, economic reforms and favourable trade agreements with the East and the West. That, therefore, is why both the Financial Times and credit rating agencies see Serbia as better, more attractive, more competitive, and of course, and judge it as such. On payment classes, there is no policy in this, there is only a desire that when something is introduced, something that is revolutionary, which changes the way the public administration works, it has to be done thoroughly and it has to be done in the right way. That is why it took us more time to analyze every job in the public administration, which is hundreds of thousands of employees, in order to properly assess the effects of the introduction of payment classes, and on the other hand apply it in an appropriate way. So, as well as economic policy, we run everything very carefully, and we see in the right way that some decisions are made, so that there are no negative effects for employees or, of course, for citizens who use public administration services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61377	Thank you. Comrade Vukadinović, would you like a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61378	Just once again and just for a little while, for other colleagues to come to terms. I just want to tell you, Mr. Minister, to go to these principled things, I'm going to quote everything you said in your previous address, not in this replica now: "I'm not making a difference between domestic and foreign investors." That's what you said to the appropriate colleagues on the left. Well, I think that's exactly the problem. So, even if it were true, I'm not sure there's any difference. I don't mean personally, I'm talking about this government's economic policy. I think that there is a difference between domestic and foreign investors and that foreign investors are favored and privileged. But even if they weren't, even if you were right, I don't think it's good and that you need to find a way, and that smart economic policy must find a way to favour domestic investors in a correct, yet noticeable way, but foreign. You claim not to make a difference, I think the difference exists, unfortunately, in favour of foreign investors. And just one more thing, although there are a lot of things to talk about, you skipped the Swiss, you didn't answer that, that it stands out to help and solve that problem just as much as it will now be given to the pensioners once. But next, I mean. It's often referred to as bankruptcy, bankruptcy, bankruptcy. And not only you, but also colleagues on the other hand have often mentioned how they were threatened by bankruptcy, how the country was about to go bankrupt and then came a rescue policy of economic and fiscal stabilisation. It's just that until this government got on stage, no one was talking about bankruptcy. There was a crisis, there were problems, but there was no bankruptcy. I'm not defending the previous government, after all, that they were good would not be ex, but the fact that you have to be fair enough, at least you as someone who understands in fact, is the fact that the mandate of the previous government has coincided with the biggest economic crisis in the last decade, that I don't say in the century, and that this has resulted in these very low growth rates or negative growth rates, not only that the tycoon policy is bad and that its protagonists have done a bad job. You have to admit that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61379	Thank you, colleague Vukadinovic. The word has a proposing representative, Minister Sinisha Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61380	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, I will remind you once more, and I said that a little before - in 2012 the S&P credit rating agency reduced Serbia's credit rating from BB to BB minus. And what is it, but a path to bankruptcy, when someone lowers your credit rating, and that's for an entire scale below? So that's what you're going to go to that cop rating, if I can express myself in English, to the ratings where no one wants you, and they're sure you'll go bankrupt at some point. This was the situation in 2012 and this is not said by Sinisha or one of us, says the world's largest credit rating agency S&P, which that year reduced our country's credit rating. I'm sorry, about the Swiss franc loan I had a whole list of answers to your questions here. So the absolute state here isn't helping the banks. We help citizens who have been deceived by previous authorities, who have taken loans in Swiss francs, people who have been in despair, strike hunger. We had space and desires, and unlike those of the opposition who now say, and why did you help them, fortunately, we thought differently from them. We thought about people, we thought about their fates, and in this way the Republic of Serbia, our state, helped people who needed help. I'm proud of it. So, in no way are we helping the banks, but those users of these loans, almost 16 thousand of them, and we, fortunately, solved that this year. As you can see, this law that you have voted for, over 90% of the users of these loans have accepted conversion and accepted to finally solve their biggest problem in life and to continue to normally repay these loans in euros. I don't know if I've forgotten anything else, but thank you very much, I'm here to answer any other questions you may have.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61381	Thank you. Before we move on to the order of MPs according to the application for a word, I once again ask if anyone else wants a word from the president, or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups? (Yes) The word has an authorised representative of the SNS parliamentary group, Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61382	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, is interesting today's debate on how the budget should solve the problems of the people who have raised loans in Switzerland, so it is now being criticised, and you have been elected on the list as an MP whose fellow Members from the same parliamentary group, although there are now three parliamentary groups of one, representing just the Efficient Association through their legal services and asking the state to solve the problem. It's actually a kind of hypocrisy. Perhaps, Mr. Minister, you did not know that the previous speaker was chosen together on the election list with one MP representing the Effective and seeking a solution. And now that they've got the solution, that's not a good solution. So now we're going to retire. But here's to retirement to talk. There are two models to increase pensions when you have surpluses, or when you have money in your budget, or you're going to make a one-time fee, or you're going to increase every pension on a percentage basis. So you could say, say, here, an increase of 5% or 10% to that pension of 15,000 and that of 100, so linearly, so these of 100 would get 10,000, and those of 15 get a thousand and a half dinars, for example. You have defined yourself as a social-balanced model, that everyone gets five grand and that's why you said it, and last year it was, so it was, and last year it wasn't so much a criticism by the Fiscal Council, but the Fiscal Council is leading one financial discipline, according to which it says -- only funding by infrastructure projects and debt repayment is justified. Anything else, wages, pensions, anything that is interest, let's say, from compensation, the damages of courts, which amount to 22 billion, which also stayed with this state because some ministers said -- well, sue the state, no matter, military pensioners versus these and made one hole in the 22 billion dinar budget. It's not a problem, it's not to be solved and it's simply not justified. So that's how some economists see the problem that needs to be pushed under the carpet. Now, so they pushed public debt under the carpet, so it seemed like they had a debt of 15 billion, but they kept it on certain banks, on bank guarantees, on debt sub-accounts, which had to come out at some point, so you got 2013, 2014, and the arrival of the IMF, who said, well, people, as much as you actually owe. It was only then that the debt was established, as interest on 1.4 billion loans came into charge, so the debts of 750m euros per year for companies in the so-called. restructuring, where 100,000 people were supposed to lose their jobs, so the state had to go into temporary privatisation, capitalisation to solve the problem. So now that you've come into this situation to say that consolidation has been carried out and that there are results and that now these results need to be shared in a certain fair way with both the citizens of Serbia and the fact that some of the funds you put into investment are now a problem. It's always a problem when there's money. The first problem is when there is no right, because someone has to solve these problems, and then everyone hides behind the bravest, and apparently Alexander Vukic, along with the SNS, was the bravest at that time. He went ahead of the citizens in 2014 to the elections, so he said – you know what, we have to cut salaries and pensions. That's what no politician has been able to say. So, 2014 before the election. You know, in 2008, some of them increased pensions, without any justification and no budget bases, by 10% and 20%, so they made a huge gap, so they came up with 40% of the total pension budget being set aside from all Serbian citizens, and now that's not the case anymore. So, what the SNS did, it simply succeeded together with the citizens of Serbia to implement this fiscal consolidation through reforms. I am pleased that today all these MPs who do not form the ruling coalition say that the reform and that fiscal consolidation has succeeded. Why? Because they say it's true, there's money. Even the Fiscal Council said this in its introduction, he says – we ask basic two questions in our assessment, the first question is is whether the increase in expenditure is justified? So they ask the question is it justified that we have extra revenue in the budget, and then the second question – were these funds used for certain purposes they consider to be used for? According to them, solving the problem for Swiss people, for pensioners, means, certain payment of one-time compensation, for the security sector that needs to get new equipment, for a certain part of the pay increase in the public sector is not justified. They are only justified to pay interest and compensation and judgments and it is only justified that what you have given for infrastructure, and that more than 42% of the total of this rebalancing is related to the infrastructure, roads, railways, etc. So now we have, on the one hand, the economists who told you -- you can't hold the surplus anymore, it took too long, four years of surplus, you're going to choke the entire production, you're going to choke the factories, and we're opening up a bigger and bigger number of factories every day, an increasing number of investments. As we've seen from your data, we've got a larger number of employees. On this basis, we also have higher tax-based revenues, and these higher revenues show that it is about 32.9 billion dinars and for non-tax revenues we have 12.7 billion dinars, which also speaks of one-time fees related to the "Nikola Tesla" Airport. Therefore, we are now talking about that even the excise duties in this income of 9.8 billion show that the people have a higher standard. Why? They would not be driven by cars, would not be spent so much fuel if they didn't really have those funds, that those funds don't exist in the consumption that all Serbian citizens feel is bigger. Of course, there are problems with social categories and, of course, the evaluation of the Fiscal Council says that, let's say, there are not 100,000 people who have no salary, no income, no pensions, so there are no ways to meet them. How did they not talk about it until 2012? They also had 100,000 social cases that were unrecognizable, had 1.7 million pensioners, so they had 100,000 people in firms in restructuring, but then some made a very good living. The economy consisted of a budget that was subordinated to Miskovic and his companies and Gilas and his minutes, and then simply imports and exports were covered by only 59.6%. Today it's covered with 74.6%. Is that enough? It may not be enough, but the structure of imports and exports has changed. Once the first state in collaboration with us was, in imports and exports, Italy, now it's Germany. We used to export car parts and agricultural products, so, from primary agricultural production. Today we export the IT sector, export both knowledge and equipment. Today we are also exporting the part relating to the processing industry, so we are processing agricultural products from primary production and exporting these finished products. Is that enough? It may not be enough, but we are simply trying to achieve as a state the growth and development of a complete economy which has led us to see that wages and pensions are going to be higher and that, even in December of this month, we feel this improvement and that we are also projecting for 2020 certain growth. If he's going to be this big, we don't know that, but we're going to predict him for the next year safely at a certain amount, because you announced a national investment plan of 12.2 billion. Mr. Vukic is just talking about Serbia needs a new investment cycle and as soon as you open such a big cycle, there is no concern that wages and pensions will grow. This story about why we're now increasing the nurses' salary, why there's just an increase in wages and pensions, that it's one populist measure because elections are going, it just doesn't stand. This happened last year and last year as part of how much we as a state were able through the budget to touch it. As much as we were, and it is very difficult to implement fiscal consolidation at the same time and implement simple investment, i.e. growth and development. This is, then, the only thing that came after us because you can't have friends, as some say, in international financial institutions, because they only look at numbers, dry numbers, and if there is this growth and development they respect you and say -- now you're at a certain level of credibility BB, second level BB+. Why? Because you have results. You can't be friends with both the World Bank and the IBRD, and the IMF because you're asked to score. That's the result we've achieved and it's proven at this current level of wages and pensions. What I was going to add as a very important factor, when it comes to paying classes, no one here will say that there is no agreement between certain professions so far that they nift their personal incomes through a certain level of pay, because simply school teachers ask them to equalize themselves with doctor's salary. Equalising these salaries simply creates large fiscal expenditures, creating one resistance in the administration itself that does not want such a plan and programme. The trade unions themselves, if you were to put them at the table and you were to say -- here you go, cultural area, education, health care, equalize your salaries, excelle on the basis of the profession that you have equal, you have such resistance in all of this, because every profession thinks it's much higher and deserves a higher level of pay and higher pay grade, and therefore, with that plan and programme, it has to go very smart and responsible. All institutions must participate in this, and this Fiscal Council, and parliamentarians, and ministries, and independent institutions, and ultimately professional associations, which should simply sit down and bring one consensus to accept something like this. By introducing a new law, not by accepting the administration itself to do the job and to function, we would have a big problem. That's why we don't want as a state to get into certain arrangements without knowing how the system will behave. It's not about the elections, it's not about any party issues as some say it here, it's about one responsible government of the Republic of Serbia. In the day of the vote, the SNS will surely support this proposal for budget rebalancing. Finally, it should be said that for the first time now we have money that has never been for this kind of rebalancing, for the first time we have a positive budget rebalance of the Republic of Serbia and for the first time we have, not only the trust of the people, but the change in the way we talk, the topic we are talking about in this Parliament. We think it is a major political step both for the Serbian government and for the president of the state and for the Serbian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61383	Thank you, colleague Tomic. We move to the order of the MPs according to the application for a word in the joint, principled search on the drafts of the law referred to in points 1, 2 and 3 of the agenda. The word has a folk MP, Jahja Fehratovic. Here you go, colleague Fehratovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61384	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable ministers with associates, MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party, will support these laws. Today we have heard a lot about the reasons why we should be safe and with full awareness and conscience vote for these laws, because every time we increase the budget, it means that we increase the quality of life for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We are particularly pleased by what you said that some of these funds will go for infrastructure projects. You mentioned today and the start of construction of the Belgrade highway – Sarajevo, however, we are not yet clear which of the two routes will go, but in any case it is very important to start this project as well as all other projects. Also today, you said that in all parts of the state there is nothing factory, unfortunately, in our area, the Sandzak area, there is still no factory, there is still no investment, and we think it's part of it because of the lack of quality traffic. That is why it is very important that we invest and that the state invests as much in infrastructure projects as possible, so that every part, even to these edges of the state, lead foreign investors, create new jobs, and simply to make young people feel this positive environment in which they can remain, build their families and plan the future, because that is the only way we can, in some ways, fight these challenges of leaving and draining young people, first of all, from the state of Serbia. It is one road that is long-term, but which, according to what we see, will produce very good results in some period that follows. Also, we are pleased that you have set a lot of funding for sensitive categories of population, socially needed categories, as well as for increased salaries for those who need and whose salaries are not enough at this time to cover their overall standard of living. For all these reasons, as well as for others who are visible, we will support these legal proposals. Of course, we think that it would be good, if not for this rebalancing, at least in the planned budget for next year, to respect some of the proposals that we have mentioned years ago, and in particular regarding tax relief for people living in rural areas, according to the rural population, because it would allow for those parts of the country that are the most endangered, and these are rural areas, to survive and to return even more to the hope that, simply, those who make up a strong cookhouse of every nation, or every society, will survive in these hearths, because if we do not do much more for rural areas, for the village, for farmers, especially in the altitude zones, and trust us, we will remain absolutely without those areas, or populations in those areas. I had a chance to be in some places on the Cave this summer, where people literally say that in 2005, there were 125 residents here, and here we were in 2019 seven in total. It's a process that, unless something is done by the state, no one can stop it. This is why it is more appeal that in the next budget of 2020 much more account is taken or find projects and mechanisms, that the rural population, especially in the altitude zones, help to survive and to build on these natural resources, of which today and how it is possible to live, make their own business and simply build their own future. In the end, we are certainly pleased that this rebalancing will enable the start of infrastructure works on this traffic, as I said the Belgrade-Sarajevo highway, with the intention or desire to be both those shorts that will include both our space and space that will go the other way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61385	I thank my colleague Fehratovic. The People's Messenger Miladin Shevarlic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61386	Thank you very much. If it is true that we have achieved success with the budgetary consolidation, then why continue negotiations with the IMF? Why don't we get rid of those clamps? I'd very much like that. Secondly, I don't see why you're afraid of the Minister of Payments. Payment classes are a system, I guess on both scientific and professional basis based, and not methodically – it comes to me, now I'm going to do these, tomorrow to others, etc. Why are you running away from the system? Furthermore, would it be good if you told us the ministers who are the 100 largest taxpayers in Serbia? How much do they owe individually and since when? Is that also causing the budget deficit to increase, because we are now, despite budget stabilisation and consolidation, as you say, increasing the budget deficit by 90%. From 3.3 to 6.4 billion dinars. Also, it would be good to know if the information is accurate and how much it stands out for migrants, given that in the past week there has been a severe controversy on the Internet whether it is 300 euros a month, who pays, etc. I think it would be good for the public to announce it. Third, I read in an explanation that the state owes 28.3 billion for the goods and services delivered by the end of September that it did not pay. Does this mean that out of these 46.5 billion budget rebalances, there will be practically only 17.18 billion available? Next, 8.5 billion stands out to help pensioners. I don't think it's correct after four years of confiscation that the government is proposing social aid for pensioners and that you should have suggested a Swiss model along with this package, that even the pensioners know what's coming next. I had cathedrals, or institutes while working at the university actively, a colleague who kept writing papers from chaos theory. From these papers on chaos theory, I have now entered the theory of chaos in the Assembly, whenever we discuss the budget. Furthermore, does it apply to the government and the ministries and the entire public sector of the state, the list of payment obligations within 60 days, when it is one of the public sector's sides? If so, how is it possible for farmers to have outstanding claims based on the 2018 incentives and subsidies, and now we are in October 2019? Furthermore, is the current a luxury of ministers, to introduce excise on electricity? I'll give you the bill that I got from Elektroprivreda Serbia for February 2019, three kilowatts spent, the price of these three kilowatts is about 14 dinars, two kilowatts more expensive, one kilowatt cheaper electricity in the green zone. The bill is set at 810 dinars along with all taxes, or around 2.3 euros per kilowatt. So much so you can see what it's like to get bills. I don't agree with you that the only measure of government duty is the participation of debt... Let's wait for the minister to finish the conversation. I believe there's something urgent. (President: Comrade Chevarlich, you've just run out of time.) I know, but I was waiting for the minister to finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61387	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go, colleague Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61388	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, according to the gentleman who spoke before me, apparently his production died, spent three kilowatts of electricity on a agricultural land in a few minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, that Serbia has gone better not only shows revenues but also expenses. It doesn't matter that much the height of the debt that remained behind the yellow cockroaches, the problem was they didn't make a source for the debt. The problem was that the value of GDP, in the rare year it grew, grew on the basis of trade, when they bought other people's goods for someone else's money, and such GDP growth was defeated. GDP growth in recent years in this government is mainly based on the processing industry, including agriculture. If the pensioners had gone a little better, the previous speaker could have seen from the statistics. The same course of the euro was in 2012, grants to pensioners from the budget, so what was not selected as a PIO contribution was 273 billion, as I recall. Donations to pensioners this year are 173 billion, and pensions have increased. This shows that the incomes from PIO insurance have increased, and yet this shows that employment has really grown realistically on the basis of higher salaries and higher employment rates, incomes have been increased in the PIO fund as well. It has been seen from many details that Serbia has stepped on its feet, that its economy has stepped on its feet, that the investments that are coming besides new revenues are also bringing new technologies and that this growth is going to be bigger and bigger in the future, that it is likely to exceed twenty percent soon, as are some other forecasts. I do not defend the opposition to criticise, but in this criticism should be moderate, especially when it comes to the theory of chaos, when it comes to small donations to pensioners, etc., especially considering that this chaos with Dusan Petrovic brought 62,000, 63,000 euros, 63,000 euros, and that the subsidies in agriculture were less 130%, and instead of today's 44 billion were only 19 billion. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61389	Thank you, colleague Rističević. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Djuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61390	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, fellow MPs, respected citizens, the MP group of the Modern Serbian Party has two principles on budget rebalancing, and they are in some way similar to those remarks that the Fiscal Council had. One, the observation is that we're spoiling the result achieved, we're going from the surplus to the deficit, we're practically going to spend the extra money now. Instead of 48.5 billion dinars of fiscal surplus at the end of July this year, we go to min 23.6 billion. So, from plus 48 to minus 23, that's a sunflower from somewhere around 72 billion, that's twice as much as the money that's going to be additionally rebalanced from citizens and businesses through increased tax revenues that are planned to rebalance. The second observation is that consumption is increasing. If the financing bill is also taken, practically 135 billion dinars of additional expenditure will not support economic growth in the majority. The increased consumption would be justified to the extent to which it is financed by increased revenues, with an increase in permanent character and if it is targeted at measures that stimulate otherwise low economic growth. I know you're going to say that 3.5% of economic growth is a lot, but he was only 2.8 in the first half of the year. The Fiscal Council even gave its own analysis at the Kopalnik Business Forum where it said that one percentage point of economic growth is lost because of corruption and one percentage point is lost due to poor education. Without a four-and-a-half growth rate, five per cent on the longer term there is no leaving poverty for Serbian citizens. We, unfortunately, have neither one measure here nor another, so only about 60% of the increased incomes have an increase in the permanent character, other revenues are one-off and will not be repeated, such as nine billion profit revenues due to the “Nikola Tesla” concession, and we think it is fiscally irresponsible to spend that money, that it should be thought of deleveraging, savings for black people. You yourself have said, and also some fellow MPs, that the economy of our largest partner, the EU, Italy and Germany may be on the verge of recession and entering a crisis. That crisis is going to get us. We had a government in 2008 that claimed that the global economic crisis was our chance. You can use their experience, it would be wise to assume that a possible EU recession can also pin our economy on, and therefore fiscally irresponsible is all this surplus generated to crash into an increase in expenditure. Only about one quarter of the increase in expenditure goes to measures that can boost insufficient economic growth, first of all, let's say 13 billion dinars for the Moravia Corridor, but the question is how real it will be, because from now on the budgeted money for the Moravia Corridor is spent only 8%. It is naive to expect that at the end of the construction season these works will gain intensity, we enter autumn and winter and it is obvious that the gap between the increased budget and the slow work, as the year comes to an end, will grow. In addition, these capital investments, which are said to encourage economic growth, actually the largest share of capital investments go towards the purchase of military and police equipment. I know you're going to say that the previous government passed tanks, but frankly, even 2.7 times increased capital investment in military and police equipment in just a year, 2.7 times in a year. So, military and police equipment, we practically invest as a country three and a half times more than countries in Central Eastern Europe, 1.1% of GDP versus 0.3% of GDP. Over 56 billion are military and police capital investments. To put those 56 billion in proportion, 32 billion will be additionally taken from citizens and businesses through the rebalancing of the estimated additional tax revenues. So, if this capital investment had even been halved, it would have been bigger than the previous year, but that would have given you about 20 billion space for some social policies, environmental investment policies in the environment, given the unquality air we breathe, one of the worst in Europe. There are other additional planned expenditures that do not have much to do with economic incentives. For example, twice the monthly spending on goods and rebalancing services, 16 billion a month, instead of the 7.3 so far, one billion additional for materials in the MUP, half a billion dinars for some project to revitalise research in the public sector. The increase in wages in the public sector is a problem from the point of view of the lack of pay grade, so we have made non-economic proportions in earnings, both according to professional preparation, both in hierarchy and sectoral, so between education of the security sector, health care and so on. Eight billion dinars increase financial support for families with children. These are these shameful benefits that mothers and families receive for maternity leave and leave during child care, but unfortunately those eight billion are not meant to increase compensation, but, as far as we've heard from the representatives of the restoring ministry, these are the funds that have been missed for these small fees. So it was a failure in the budget process from the beginning of the year. Another curiosity, the MUP will be one of the biggest winners to increase profits. Minister, please, this is very interesting, so please pay attention, I see you're having a chat with your colleague, please. So, the MUP, which is one of the biggest winners to increase profits, which is okay, with the profit rebalance, budgets one billion less. What does that tell us? That the budgetary process is imprecise, that we have exact sums of incorrect data. That tells us these eight billion we missed for financial support to families with children. On the other hand, only two billion additional subsidies in agriculture, in total expenditure, we have a farm of only 2.71% and that is too little. So that's almost 3.5 times less than the Department of Defense. On the other hand, the EU budget is more than 30% allocated to agriculture. This says that the government's fiscal priorities are not quite precisely defined and the question is how much they are really focused on agrarian, social and environmental policies and economic incentives, and how much, in fact, on building military and police hardware. The promotional measures of the economy, for which there was indeed a chance now, unfortunately, are lagging behind. It's a good thing that the consumption of oil derivatives is bigger and that, based on the charge of excise duty on oil derivatives, it's bigger, but why hasn't a downsizing of the excise rate been considered, so that by some small correction, we re-charging the rate as originally planned, but subsidising the economy. Why has it not been considered to cut the profit burden more sharply, as the Fiscal Council proposed a reduction of three percentage points in December last year. Reductions in excise duty on oil derivatives, reduction of labour loads would give 40 billion redundancies in the economy, reductions in entry costs. It would be a large, comprehensive and non-selective subsidy to the entire economy that would raise their profitability through reduced entry costs. The state would pay back some of that money through profit tax, but it would push economic growth more sharply, because with all the better collection of certain categories of fiscal income and lasting character and improved collection, we still have a problem with insufficiently large economic growth. That's why we think it was a mistake to spend all the extra money instead of saving it for any black days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61391	Thank you, colleague Guric. The word is made by the MP Goran Kovacevic. Here you go, colleague Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61392	Ladies and gentlemen, dear ministers, the budget is the most significant legal and economic act to be adopted during a fiscal period. The fiscal period could be a year, three years, five years, but the budget is at the same time the most significant economic and political act to be adopted for the territory of a country in a fiscal period. The budget of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Minister, is much more than the most significant legal and economic act of the Serbian state. It is the most significant legal and economic act of the entire territory of the Serbian people. Serbia is a state that has an exceptional ability and power to be a leader in economic terms in the Western Balkans. In the Western Balkans, Serbia has this ability to be the most significant, most capable, economically convincing able to run the region. But the economic heritage of the Serbian state is such that unfortunately we have not had luck with our predecessors, that the economic elite that led Serbia in the previous period of time, with our ignorance, unhappiness, petty personal interests, has led Serbia into a situation where we are located and to correct the mistakes we are correcting. Before the Second World War, both 1946 and 2000 and 1999, it was about that way. Economic elites, their programmes that had no economic basis, but even more applied practice pushed these macroeconomic parameters of Serbia down. Aleksandar Vukic says Serbia has experienced an economic revolution and is absolutely right. We are talking about fiscal reform today, we are talking about fiscal change, but essential Serbia has changed the economic system. This economic system today looks completely different, primarily based on results that are clear and visible. The measures we have made were not revolutionary, but were primarily evolutionary, and support for such a programme is undeniable and the citizens of Serbia accept economic change in Serbia as a whole. When you look at how our political opponents comment, then they have envy and jealousy, and when you hear about economic changes in Serbia being made by economists, then you can understand that you actually have political views. These political views are fully justified, but economic Zealotism is certainly when you can hear that economic principles are not respected, which are caused by pure economic interests and above all by economic professions. If we were to have sex with a few key economic things today, then we are talking about economic growth and development and the factors that lead to it. There is no such proposal as they make in economic theory. Economic growth depends on personal and public consumption. The second factor is export growth, the third factor is interest rates. When you look at it, it's undeniable, and two days already we're having a debate about, that public spending also has a multiplier as well as personal consumption and then leads to growth. If you look at how we grow exports of 6.9%, this is due to future economic growth. If you're talking about interest rates, then I'd quote a BB credit rating, and we get a BBB-credit investment rating, it'll probably mean 500 to a billion euros in net income for the state, based on interest cuts and accelerated economic growth. In the economy, ministers, the results are everything. For us from the SNS, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, in fact cannot forgive the economic results and that is the essence of all the problems. They can't forgive us because during their term of office, their counseling, their law-writing, we had 12.1% inflation, negative economic growth, 25% unemployment. We from SNS these days, when economic laws are at stake, speak and repeat, because we have reason to speak and repeat, that Serbia's economic growth is 3.7%, the inflation rate is 2%, unemployment 10.3%, the result of the denial and efforts of all Serbian citizens. The failures were the result of their knowledge and their unhappiness. Serbia today stands better economically. We can't compromise, we have no reason, because, based on the experience of practice, we know that these are the best macroeconomic results in Serbia's history and there is no controversy. You can disagree politically, you can bring up political and economic zilots that have nothing to do with the economy, but Serbia is growing, that's what this budget says. This budget is different and different from the previous budget for around 800m euros, how much we spend on the Moravski Corridor, for 150m euros, how much we spend in this and the next budget for the trip between Kragujevac and Mrcajevac, for new schools, new gymnasiums, for a different life, but crucially, this budget is also different for the Kosovo supplement, this budget is also different for the contributions we make to municipalities in Republika Srpska for economic growth and development. This is the Serbian people's budget, wherever it is. Of course, the economic challenges in finance are high, macroeconomic ones are daily. Global developments affect all other developments, affect macroeconomic parameters in Serbia as well. Of course, when you're discussing economic growth, the budget, in fact, you always have a collection of dozens of things that affect that, and when it comes to growth and when it comes to budget and when it comes to fiscal incomes. If we didn't have such a restriction on the transport of goods in the Balkans, our growth would be greater. If they hadn't flown two drones out there, probably the price of fossil fuels would have been lower, so our growth would have been higher. If some of our big private investments had worked better this year, we'd have a bigger growth. But it's an economy, it's a living organism that's changing, it's growing, it's moving, and it's moving, and it's so, but it's the essence of trend. The trend of the Serbian economy is growing, it's stable, our fiscal policy is stable. I thought in 2015, when we didn't bring budget rebalance that it was the top that Serbia could reach. You have experience in the 1990s, 2000s, when your economy doesn't work, when the same teachers tell you what it's supposed to look like. In 2015 you say in the Assembly – well, that's an amazing thing, we have no rebalancing for the first time in Serbia's history. In 2019, I know I was wrong. For the first time, we have a budget rebalance that's better and better, because in the last eight months we've been wrong, we've been planning a budget, and we've managed to make our economy grow better. You're not the wizard to make the same fiscal burdens of higher fiscal income. Simply, Serbia, Serbia's economy is growing better. Mr. Minister, you're proposing budget rebalance after a year and a half. When you were elected minister, I said it wouldn't be easy for you. Your year and a half live in two things, an apartment at an interest rate of 1.6% of the two on the London Stock Exchange, which is the support and trust of thousands of investors participating in the London Stock Exchange, Alexander Vukic's policy and his policy, both economic and thus stability policy, your leadership of the Ministry of Finance and our least in the Assembly is the adoption and support of the laws that you propose. Your ministers and BB plus, if it's a BBB minus, we're going to enter the investment fund, then your personal contribution to the economy, to the natural persons, and to the state of Serbia, probably from 500 to a billion euros of lower interest rates, is one of the factors, the third for economic growth and development. Minister, the results of the economy are everything, and that goes for you, and put aside bad things, it's just not about us, our interest, our macroeconomic parameters, it's our job while Serbia and growth are developing while the macroeconomic parameters are fair and what they need, I think we're on the right track. And let me say something about the budget. Look, we've got income growth on all economic classifications, not to mention, I'm just not taking the time. Serbia is growing and all economic parameters, that income has seven growths. We didn't raise fiscal parameters, we didn't change the burden, so that's the consequence of simply economic growth and development. Is that 50 billion, however it is, is a significant amount. When we talk about the other side about expenditures, the biggest controversy has risen about two billion expenditures for salaries that are compared to 50 billion 25%, so that's completely invisible in this budget. The other problem is pensions. Why are they criticizing us? Because it simply causes the greatest political impatience, these are not populist measures. These are the measures that affect economic growth and development. It has nothing to do with any idea that the election is. Serbia is in a position to repay that money and Serbia at the same time does not allocate the highest amounts for personal consumption, it singles out the largest amounts and in the rebalancing of public spending budgets. The effect is more or less on the growth of social gross products, it leads to the growth of social gross products. To me, one of the key parameters is the reduction and separation of the pension fund of 4.6%. When you single out less for a pension fund of 4.6% and your pensions are growing, it says that what you said was a higher employment level in Serbia, 4.6% lower from the budget, means that we put higher incomes based on a larger number of employees, or higher incomes. To decelerate, and we agree, we have reduced the burdens of the real sector by 1%, we will reduce the burden in 2020 by 1%, but this does not contribute to economic growth and development, but rather brings essentially the redistribution of public and personal consumption that contributes to growth and development. When we do that, we actually move one part of the location of the funds that the state would spend to the personal consumption of the company's owner. Contributions grow as much as public spending. In theory, just to explain to some who say they rely on Kenz's macro-economics, where Kenz, when dealing with the problem of macro-economy, talked about investing that involves increasing employment levels, and certainly not economic growth and development. When you respect economic rules, when you respect economic theory, it certainly contributes to economic growth and development. This economic growth and development leads to an increase in fiscal revenues. As you increase fiscal revenues, you actually do two things, increase public consumption and personal consumption, actually create infrastructure and make citizens' lives more quality because they spend more. This is the essence of the 2019 budget rebalance. The budget rebalancing is the first in history to allow for the economic growth and development of Serbia, allowing Serbia to look much better and much better in public sector investment and personal consumption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61393	Thank you. The word has a folk MP named Milena Corilić.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61394	Dear Vice-President, respected ministers with associates, respected MPs, a package of laws in the area of public finances discussed today is also a confirmation of the successful conduct of economic policy in the past few years, but it is certainly an instrument for further successful business. The objective statistical indicators from quarterly GDP growth to the rate of monthly inflation give us a picture of a relatively stable economy that records continuous growth. The results achieved provide the basis for the collection of tax liabilities and thus the increase in budget revenues. This created the possibility for the largest number of employees who are directly beneficiaries of budget funds, i.e. public service employees to increase profits ranging from 8% to 15% starting with earnings for November this year. A particularly significant increase in earnings is planned in the area of healthcare. Nurses and technicians will get a 15% increase. The planned increase related to nurses and technicians is certainly justified given the importance of this staff in achieving healthcare. In addition to the importance of this staff in the health care system should be taken into account and the demand for this interest in Western European countries who are interested can offer far more attractive earnings, it certainly creates a problem for our health system. In the area of health care and health insurance, other than improving employee standards, other options should be considered to keep these workers here. It is certainly necessary to continue with the tendency to create as good a condition as possible in providing health services in homes of health, medical and clinical centres. In this regard, we should remind ourselves that the state has made significant efforts both in the construction of health facilities, such as clinical centres and in their equipment. It is also important to stress that this budget rebalancing is not just about the increase in the amount of earnings in budget users. It was taken into account and the possibility was found to identify additional resources to improve individual social functions of the state. It can be noted that slightly larger funds have been allocated to individual positions within the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Labour relating to budget funds for the needs of treatment abroad and for social protection institutions. Obviously a stable economy has provided conditions for the realisation of social policy. As for the issues of pensions, which are at the centre of interest of the party I belong to, I think it's a good thing that there are broad discussions on the future model of harmonising pension growth. There is currently a public debate at the level of the pensioners' association and the expert public on establishing a model for pension coordination. Following the completion of the debate and the determination of the model, i.e. the adoption of pension coordination, it must seek to apply the law consistently in the following year, 2020. What is certainly a good signal is a certain further reduction seen in the item intended to transfer the Ministry of Finance towards the pension and disability insurance fund for the payment of the missing pension funds. Indeed, the transfer of funds from the budget to the pension disability fund has also been affected by the positive movement of pension contributions and pension disability insurance. The budget's contribution to pension payments a few years ago was 48.2%, and today it is 27.9%. Also, the contribution of pensions paid to GDP is below 11% and 10.2%, respectively, as was the strategy. These are certainly indicators of strengthening the stability of the Republic PIO Fund. The announced payment of one-off aid, of 5,000 dinars, for all pensioners, i.e. for over a million and 700 thousand pensioners is good, especially for the most vulnerable, or for pensioners with the lowest pensions. We expect that the draft budget and the financial plan of the Republic Fund of PIO will provide funding for an increase in the amount of pension benefits for next year. Of the other solutions offered for adoption, I believe that what is contained in the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Taxes is important. This proposal for a law makes it more favourable to pay VAT on goods which are shipped abroad for personal purposes, i.e. it is possible to request VAT refund from six to 12 months from the time of dispatch for such goods. This is a logical solution, given that we are all witnesses that more and more foreign tourists are coming to our country and that they should certainly be even more motivated to buy goods here. This is economically more useful than the refund on goods that are linked to administrative procedures and formalities. Given that the PUPS parliamentary group does not have too much time to discuss, and to allow the honourable MP, Mr Momo Colakovic, to discuss, I would like to say that the PUPS parliamentary group will give its support in the voting day for the adoption of all proposed laws at today's session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61395	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Milorad Mijatovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61396	Dear Vice President, the Honorable Minister with Associates, we enter our debate on budget rebalancing at eight o'clock. A lot of things have been said here, and I'm afraid I'm going to do some things again. But the first thought that came into my head is if in Serbia you want everyone to attack you, disrespect you, attach labels to the result. If you have a result then be sure that you will be attacked and that no more arguments are valid, no digits, because simply. When we look at things, then be assured there is no rationality. He'll often tell you you're a populist. I admit I'm a populist. I'm very glad that we've achieved 50 billion extra funds in revenue, the real money we're discussing today how to share them. They say it's populist to give pensioners 5,000 dinars, that it's populist. Well, please tell those few tens of thousands who have large pensions, and a million and 700 pensioners are waiting for those 5,000 and expecting them as a reward for everything they've had. They say it's populism. Well, let's make it a populism. Where you have two pensioners that's 10,000, and how significant money for those millions and 700 people who are in these situations with such small pensions. In his presentation, the minister said – I always stood up for it. Yes, this is a one-time measure, but in order to provide the pensioners with our insistence on the Swiss formula. I expect that the Swiss formula will come to life from January 1st and that the pensioners will clearly and predictablely know what awaits them. I have to say one next thing. You know, I remember the time, and I've been in this Parliament for a long time, when we had a budget deficit of over 120 billion. When it came to payments and wages and pensions, then nobody said anything about why, and we are now discussing how to share the funds we have earned. Now that we have a stable, predictable, sustainable budget, that's a big result. That's the result we all have to be proud of. This ruling coalition, which for a short time, has come in a difficult time to discuss real resources, to discuss a rising economy and to discuss how to improve life in Serbia. Do not think that I want to say that Serbia is currently living well in the sense that we have now come to a happy time. No, I don't. Serbia still finds it difficult to live, but there is hope that we will move forward well. We are taking good steps forward, which means we have positive GDP growth rates, so that we can expect in all the years to come that Serbia's deficit and its backlog with other countries will compensate for its economic development, faster development. Why am I saying this? You know, the nine billion we're handing out to the pensioners by 5,000 someone's going to say -- that's a big sum. No, it's not big. It's a earned sum, a sum that we can clearly share. And I also support that fact that we're giving one part of the assets to capital investment. Thirteen billion that are given for the highway Pojate-Preljena are significant funds. Investment in infrastructure certainly means a further increase in GDP and I will push for it. I will also advocate investment in sewers, wastewater purifiers. In a draft budget for 2019, I stressed that I want the budget to make clear what is given for the objectives of sustainable development, which is what Serbia is planning to aim at achieving the goals of sustainable development. What's good in this budget, and I want to point out, is the fact that the spending party is very well planned, so the expenditure hasn't been broken. The expenditures are well estimated, which means we have a stable budget, no more surprises. I remember a time when suddenly a debt pops up, I remember a time when some numbers were hidden, we say it under the line, and then suddenly they show up. This budget is clear, transparent, predictable. I'm having this debate about rebalancing, and it's a good thing it's like that, I see it as an overture for the budget debate. My question goes directly to the finance minister – are respect for the budget calendar? I expect it from you. That means I expect the 2020 budget to be in the assembly on November 1st of this year, that MPs have enough time to study the budget and that we, in accordance with the budget calendar, adopt the budget by 15 December. Why am I stressing that? I expect that we will have twice the time to discuss, which means that we will clearly, transparently, come before the citizens of Serbia and hide nothing anymore. That means we're running a responsible policy, a policy that's clear, which is transparent and where there's no hidden intentions. That is the result of this ruling coalition. That's what the citizens show, full trust, because what we promise, that's what we keep. Simply, citizens see these results as well as open highways, as they will see completed "Corridor 10", "Corridor 11" and opening works on other corridors. Something I'd like to say further, the public sector pay issue. Someone will say, "It's populism again." I must tell you that I fully support the allocation of funds to increase wages in the public sector. That's true in this year two billion, but next year it will be 24 billion, but I expect further GDP growth, I expect that these funds will simply be achieved in the budget, and therefore, we are paying more from real money. You know, it's often said that wages have exceeded our economic growth. I must tell you that the participation of the salary in the GDP in 2017 was 9.1%, that after these increases in 2020 will be 9.6%. We need 9.4% of GDP. This little deviation is really small, but this government is a socially responsible government and the SDP is exactly what supports it, and that's why we are part of this coalition that has results. We make sure we're a socially responsible state. If you see a little bit better, the expenditure breakthrough was precisely in social giving, for children's allowances, for everything else, which means that we're socially sensitive and that's what SDP supports and will support. We have 460,000 employees in the public sector. I don't think that's a big number, given Serbia's level of development, but I still have to say. You know, you told Mr. Minister there's no employment ban, there's employment control. Called it one way or another, playing with words, I want us to have a clear, efficient administration, that it appreciates work and just pays for work, real quality work. So I support what you have suggested that we have a differentiated salary increase, that the most goes to nurses, doctors and others. I'm one of the advocates, no matter how much that sounds, and I come from the union, for pay grade. I know it's a tough job. It's an extremely difficult job. Every group, and we have influential groups, educators, health care, etc. He sees himself always in a better position. Once we have talked, through social dialogue, then we'll certainly be able to get through some repairs to introduce payment classes. They can't come to life at once, but one step at a time we need to introduce some balance in paying wages where it goes. I support and will always support on behalf of the SDP an increase in the minimum labour price. The fact that she's 27,020 increased to 30,020 is a very big result. This continues to increase further that in the private sector the smallest profit must be increased, and I believe that I am always a step-by-step supporter, that it will come very quickly to cover minimum earnings for the minimum consumer basket. In that sense, I fully support the unions for fighting for it. One more thing, don't think that Serbia is some rich country, we had a GDP of $47 billion in 2018. The IMF said our GDP per head is $7,207, and by 2023 we'll be at 10,394. That'll be 44% higher. In order to reach this score by 2023, it takes a lot of work, a lot of smart policy and a lot of GDP growth, and we will be able to do that if we have evenly available the surpluses we create and what we have created. That is why the SDP parliamentary group will support this budget rebalance in the voting day, and also, Mr Minister, we look forward to a debate on the 2020 budget and I remind you again of the 2030 Agenda and the Sustainable Development Goals. That's what I'm going to ask you what you predicted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61397	Thank you, colleague Miatovic. The word has the People's MP Vojislav Vujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61398	Thank you, Your Honor. Mr. Minister, Unique Serbia supports your work. After all, you're the only minister in this government we've voted for. For all known reasons, we didn't vote for this government. We support President Aleksandr Vukic's work and support the work of most ministers in this government. Why do we support your work and all the laws that are on the agenda today? Because today Dragan Markovic Palma, president of the Single Serbia PG, whom I belong to, made it clear today that we support actions and that works for us are the only result of someone's work. Realistically, when we look at what you've done in a relatively short period of time, the fact is that it's good works, works that make us support today. It is generally known that one budget would be stable and it would be good to have such results as the kind of rebalancing that we are doing today, and for all those citizens who are following what we are doing today, this is a rebalance where there are surpluses, so there's some surplus of good planning and even better budgeting, and now that money the government wants to share somehow. You've done it through six measures. Why do I say politics is important? Because every economy in order to have such a successful growth, as our economy currently has, may not be the most ideal, as some colleagues say, but the fact is that it's getting better year by year, must have a clear policy that gives some support to the economy. That policy along with diplomacy has just come to an end. So what Alexander Vukic did together with Foreign Minister Ivica Dacic resulted in foreign investors having more courage to invest in Serbia. Of course, all these investments, it's more irrelevant whether with subsidies or without subsidies, have produced excellent results. So this is one serious, qualitative shift compared to all those years ago. I will try to mention all the six measures that are here today, which dominate this rebalancing of yours. The first measure is nine billion to solve the problem of loans in the Swiss francs and I, as well as most of my colleagues, since I have here three mandates in the Assembly, I have had the opportunity to multiple times on different topics and when Mrs. Governor of the National Bank was here in the Assembly and when you were in the Assembly and some of your colleagues when they were here before you, every time we mentioned this problem, but there was no such solution. I'm sure, like now, this may not be the most ideal solution, but the solution that saved and affected 16,000 families. Now, someone says whether you should have done it, who you met, etc., you went out to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to meet, whether out of some ignorance, I can't say naivety, perhaps lack of the state's interest to explain to all these people at that point that it's not a smart move. So, at some point, some government wasn't dealing with this problem that maybe in the beginning it wasn't as big as it was in the last few years, it caused a problem for 16,000 families. Now someone says, "Why do you react?" Well, if we have a situation where we have a elemental disaster in one part of our territory, it's certain that the government will be involved and that all available means will be given to a certain number of people that have been hit by this particular disaster. If we consider that there were 16,000 families here and that nothing more money was spent than, say, solving a problem along with a major elemental accident, you did the same thing. I therefore congratulate you, too, and I congratulate the ministers of the government, Alexander Vukic, since, we remember those days, he also took personal participation in solving one of these great problems for those 16,000 people. So what's most honest, and that just happened now, is that citizens are the ones who spend the budget. Dragan Markovic Palma has different methods that where he has his absolute authority he is just coming out to the citizens to meet to spend the budget. That's what you've done now. The second measure is nine billion to pay off one-time aid to pensioners. My colleagues have already talked about it. The fact is that pensioners must have put up with the greatest burden of these reforms and what you're doing, and that's not the first time, here's to slowly finding a way through these one-time aids and the solution that they've managed to separate and help stabilise our budget, come back. What's even better than what you said, to receive this one-time aid is that today you said there would be a pension increase again. Unique Serbia certainly supports that. That's the third measure, ten billion for the purchase of additional equipment in the security sector. The specific situation we are in is the specific territory in which we are located, time and environment. I'd be luckiest if we didn't have to spend ten billion on the military, on the police, on the security sector, so we could buy tractors for that money, combined and ultimately, end up dealing with agriculture and business. The fact is that because of this relationship with our countries in the environment, our relationship with the great forces where we didn't want to put ourselves on either side, we respect everything, but we don't want to lose friends just because we'd settle on one side. We have to invest in the security sector. That's what gives us some security. When I talk about the security sector what is most interesting, perhaps today is not enough attention given, that you have managed to produce such results, to make such a surplus, regardless of what our Kosovo is a burning problem. Countries in the environment that were similar to our economies and that were better than us, at one point remained behind our backs when it came to measurable results and fiscal policy and at all the work of the Ministry of Finance. The fact is that one such problem, as I believe, and I see that today my colleagues agree, is getting smaller because the growing number of countries that do not give recognition and withdraw recognition so-called. An independent Kosovo. With all these burdens, we know what kind of impositions they've imposed on us, what customs duties you've managed to produce excellent results. The fourth measure is 13 billion additional investments to build the Pojate-Preljina road. It's a fact again. It has never been built again in Serbia, it has never been invested in infrastructure more than it has done in these last two mandates. It's certainly all that's being built that remains for some generations to come behind us. It places Serbia in a transition country where it is certainly cheaper and safer to transport its goods on all these roads. That's why it's likely that the budget is already showing a major inflow precisely in that part of the transit and investment we've had in the same. Seven billion additional funds are interest due to early repayment of loans. This is a logical trail of things. Every time we happen to have a surplus in the budget, it's logical that one household business is going to redistribute just like this. The sixth measure is two billion dinars to raise salaries in the state sector. Very often we all talk and criticize that we are leaving quality personnel. The fact is, in the public sector, wages aren't big. There are some exceptions that we are criticizing here. These are certain agencies, but generally public enterprises have to keep professional people, people who are educated, who know how to deal with certain problems. That's why this is one of the good measures. Since they're telling me that time is coming to an end, I'm only going to ask one more thing. Since counterpart Mijatovic said earlier, he asked that the budget be on time, and knowing how you work, I have no doubt, I know that he will be on time, but it may not be too late to fix just one thing. It's to prepare in the new budget, increase the resources involved in demographics. I don't think as much as we're putting into it, it's enough. We need to copy Hungary a little bit, we need to see some countries doing it in an environment that have the same problem as we do. Here I'm just going to ask you on behalf of the JS parliamentary group, so we don't have to do it through the amendments, you find a way to increase that part too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61399	I thank my colleague, Vujic. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61400	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, we have been having various comments on the amendment and addition of the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2019. There are also positive ones, but it seems to me that to the greatest extent, those who are negative are prevailing. What is common for all those who have negative comments on how money will be spent by the end of 2019, and you will see the most negative comments that money will be spent in 2020. I can't find any of them that he has given a single piece of advice, then to the prime minister of the Republic of Serbia, and now to President Aleksandr Vukic how that Serbia has enough money to finance its commitments and yet to raise living standards for both state administration employees and pensioners. So none of those critics said how to make money. But now they're very smart when it comes to spending money. And they will give you dozens of proposals that are contrary to what the Government of the Republic of Serbia is proposing, and even if you were in a situation and able to accept their proposals, and then they would be against themselves, because they have to criticise something, they must say that Aleksandar Vukic as prime minister was not successful, as president of the Republic of Serbia not to lead a good country and that they would do it much better than he does. Now, there were various comments. You know, the most beautiful story is when you can part of the economy or economic operators or part of the population, which is otherwise unpopular in Serbia to accuse that they are responsible for everything. So we had fellow MPs here who accused the banks of everything, here we now have fellow MPs who accuse importers of everything. Here, the importers are the biggest culprits that live in Serbia not the way we would have wanted them to, and here we are doing in the interest of an import lobby at the expense of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, so even an import lobby has become involved in monetary policy or politics of the Central Bank of Serbia. Here, that's one of the criticisms here that's been made. But, Mr. Minister, it's not the only experience, to say the least. There, it was just one of the followers of those famous signatures related to your doctoral dissertation. Here's what they say on the "doctors.org" site, otherwise professors with years of experience and results in scientific and pedagogical work, we feel a professional and moral obligation to express our opinion and determine possible plagiarities in doctoral dissertation, etc. After three and a half years of waiting for the decision of the authorities, we believe it is our duty, according to the request, published on the site, and one of the signatories is Professor of the Faculty of Economics, Danica Popovic. There. She's one of the signatories. Mr. Minister, if I knew they were wrong and you could be calm, let's look at one of the scientific papers of the mentioned professor, here's only one and her followers here amongst the MPs. Here's how it's supposed to be, there's a crisis in the euro zone, possibly impossible, we're not going to discuss it. What can Serbia do? Says Professor Danica has one drug tested and effective, and it's called depression or that Serbian citizens know, it's called dinar printing, nothing else. He says two things would be achieved by printing dinars, i.e. reducing the value of dinars. First, it would be a unique opportunity for all exporters in Serbia to receive the same preferential treatment. Then I guess in his hatred for Alexander Vukic's politics and you as minister, he says – How? Here's how, as the euro got cheaper, here's the first lie and the first lie, the euro wasn't getting cheaper. The euro has the same average that it had in 2012, nothing is cheaper, but in 2012, when the regime changed. It was an oscillation, but I can tell you that while those dinar oscillations were gone, there was no inflation. Then how did the importers put extra profits in their pocket? You know, they're unpopular. The easiest thing to do is to charge the importers -- well, they take away the citizens' money. And in this very professional and very scientific work, they say they didn't cheap the products, though, we came to the conclusion that they didn't even collect, the importers put that difference neatly in their pocket -- I just don't know which -- and left us with a growing external trade deficit. Here, today is the euro as much as it is, somewhere around 118 dinars. With yesterday's day, the National Bank of Serbia increased its foreign exchange reserves by two billion and 100m euros. If there is such an external trade deficit that is not covered by real resources, then how does the National Bank increase foreign exchange reserves? That should explain to me an esteemed teacher who dares to write this kind of nonsense as a scientific worker. There is one more thing here, and it is now becoming clear that the government of Mirko Cvetkovic listened in 2008. Here, in 2008, there was a global economic crisis. The Republic of Serbia has been printing money since the end of 2008 and this lasts until May 2012. The exchange rate for the euro from 78 dinars jumps to 119,80. Did that help us overcome the crisis? I think we lost 400,000 jobs because of that. I think we put our economy into recession, that's the 2.7% you talked about, minus GDP. It's a loss of living standards by four years from over 50%. It's inflation. And now we know at least who Mirko Cvetkovic listened to as he led the Republic of Serbia as Prime Minister, and when he printed the money, he allegedly was going to help Serbia's economy and led to a beggar stick and completely destroyed it. Well, they're against you, Mr. Minister. As long as they're like that, don't worry, there's nothing I can do for you. Let's move on. One of the famous critics and self-proclaimed economic experts, NIN editor-in-chief, Mr. Milan Culibrk, says in the latest number of NINs that the city of Belgrade has spent 10m euros or 6,666 euros per square metre on reconstruction of the Square of the Republic, which, according to him, amounts to one and a half hectares. So says the expert, who doesn't know that one hectare has 100 acres, that one ar has 100 square meters and that one hectare has 10,000 square meters. Now, that Mr. Culibrk didn't know. And then he declares himself an economic expert. Or maybe, as a guess, he used the digitron, but from the time of the former regime, so Tadic, Gilas, Pajtic, and everyone else, and that digitron always multiplied everything by ten times, once for the contractors, and nine times for them, so he made that mistake. He was supposed to start using real and proper calculating machines. But do you see how much hatred that comes out of everything that Alexander Vukic and his associates do, here and I choose you, whatever they do has to be wrong. Whatever they do, it's no good. So 666 euros is, indeed, but he's multiplying it, so he mentions Belgrade on the water and I'm not going to advertise his nonsense. These are self-called experts, professors whose policy has become above science, who teach at Belgrade University, and that is unfortunate, but we also have holders of certain public powers that allow themselves certain negative comments. Here, and here in the Assembly there was controversy once before, we return to their report which was delivered here to the Finance Committee and later to all the MPs, so I must remind you that Mr. Pavle Petrovic for Business Forum at Kopalnik 2018, meaning, about 18 months ago, published a scientific paper - A strong growth of employment with slow growth in production did not even occur. Here, it's written by the President of the Fiscal Council just 18 months ago. I will, Mr. Minister, read you a part of their opinion on the draft law on amendments and amendments to the law for 2019. So they claim that the growth of employment in the Republic of Serbia did not happen. And now he says, in Glava 2 - Implementation of the 2019 Budget Act, this same Pavle Pavlovic, a more favourable macroeconomic movement on the labour market, are the main reason for a better charge for tax revenues in 2019. So, I wrote it now that there was a rise in employment. Now, that's what I told you, even if you do as they ask, they'll be against themselves, and then you won't roll. Whatever you do, you won't work. We come up with this famous report and all the criticisms referred to the Government's proposal on budget changes for 2019. So, let's say, there were stories about how more investment in infrastructure should be invested than there was an increase in wages and pensions in the public sector. And when we asked the question on the Finance Committee -- well, here, let's say you're all right, just answer whether this salary growth and public sector income growth and pension growth are affecting increased domestic consumption, increased domestic employment and thus higher budget revenues? You know what the answer was? Well, it affects, but it's not enough. They forget each other. The state doesn't exist because of the Fiscal Council. The state doesn't exist either because of Danica Popovic, the state doesn't exist because of Milan Culibrk, the state exists because of its citizens. And it is the state that should take care of its citizens, not the scientific works of self-proclaimed economic experts blinded by politics and hatred. They can't be of use. The Republic of Serbia has made more kilometres of highways than it has ever been done in Serbia since it was Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic in the last five years. And now someone's going to say and they're going to criticise that we should have invested more in highways and that we don't need to raise salaries in the public sector, because, well, the public sector is harmful, by them, it shouldn't exist. That's their understanding. Now, maybe that economic logic of theirs would make sense if our people hadn't been devastated by the former regime, if the average salary in Serbia was 700, 800 euros, the average pension of 400, 450 euros, so that would make some sense, but it's not, unfortunately, it's not. While we wait for these first results of their stealth highways, what will that people do? What are these citizens going to do? They don't have an answer to that. They didn't even have answers until 2012, but we're back to the story, but now they know when he's got money on how to spend it, and they didn't know how to earn it while they were in power. I think that with one such policy, implemented by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the President of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, we have exactly a balanced position between investment and raising the standard of living of citizens of the Republic of Serbia from public consumption. The exact measure has been found, and that's very important. Let me get back to these macroeconomic developments on the labour market, according to the President of the Fiscal Council. The current unemployment rate is about 10%, and that's already one limit when a long-awaited game for labour begins. If we don't start seeing the state as someone who needs a certain workforce, especially the Ministry of Defense and the Ministry of the Interior, we won't even get to it. One reason is to increase the profits. One more thing, and the real sector has to follow that trend. As opportunities are opened on the one hand, so is the other side, and this is the real sector, it must open its options and that through better working conditions and better profit comes to workers, and the job of the state is to create a macroeconomic situation through the infrastructure, and we are now going back to the highways, that they have never been made more than now, and the railways that have been reconstructed more than ever before. So that's how it creates conditions for the economy to develop. Now they would want to, or, as it pleases them, for instead of science, they do politics. I say, that's the biggest problem. Let them leave politics to us, to the politicians. There were also stories about whether you should invest in defense, should you invest so much? It's money that is once given to and from which the economy does not benefit. Most of the equipment the police and the military buy, not perhaps the biggest, but one good part is from the domestic, dedicated industry. We increase our economy's competitiveness, we increase our industry's competitiveness, we increase its export capacity, but it bothers some. Everything bothers them. Believe me, Minister, if you had listened to them 100%, they would have found a grudge again, because their only goal is to black out the results that the government has, to black out the results that Alexander Vukic has, to make it negative for the citizens of Serbia, to try to double-cross them, like they did on October 5, 2000, to come back to power, to reprint money, and again 400,000 people are out of work. I don't think that's possible anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61401	Thank you, colleague Arsic. The word is by MP Dejan Radenkovic. Here you go, colleague Radenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61402	Thank you, Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Ministers of Associates, there's nothing overnight. People in Serbia know that and therefore trust today's majority and its work, which is proud to have a heart on the left hand side and the most experience. This is how I commented on the latest budget rebalancing of the Republic of Serbia, and it has been a long time since the Danube and Sava, Ibro and Dream. I'll read some more parts, what I said back then. The budget rebalance is necessary, because our reality is different from the projection of the beginning of the year, and the measures proposed by the government are difficult, bitter, but at this point they are necessary and are only part of the mosaic reforms that will change our country for the better. If we stop only at the fascination of the numbers in the budget and stress that first we have to solve public finances, and in the meantime we can't start other sources of trouble, we're not going anywhere. However, it is clear to all of us that we know where we want to go and that there is much to change. We're where we're going. The measures we propose are no longer bitter, and the results achieved go to hope. I'm no longer discussing how to put out the fire, but whether the budget is sufficiently developed, prone to growth, social or conservative. However, we are no longer discussing whether pensions will be regular, the state at the edge of bankruptcy, discussing how to divide or invest a budget surplus with the same level of tax burdens. It's almost like we're in the wish of miracles. You know, it's an inflation-free country, with stable GDP growth, with stable public finances. It's a country that goes forward, and it goes because it understands most of the things that the Socialists have been talking about for years. Without any particular desire, to avoid some of the inconspicuous political options, which unsustainably go on the way that even the greatest statisticians will not find them, accuse me of plagiarizing myself, I'll repeat some more things that I said when we last did rebalance and solve the problems of a major fiscal irresponsibility that lasted for years. The battle is fought on many fronts, and due to the painful visibility of the deficits, even experienced economists tend to believe that it is just something that is corrected by technical measures, whether it is a reduction in expenditure or an increase in taxes, whether it is a better charge or a careful emission of rights, and it is true only within a few months, but it has to be done and it cannot be popular. It's a good thing everyone's aware that what we're doing is forced and temporary, above all, that this is just a prerequisite, not a cure that solves everything. We are now dealing with the consequences, because from action on samples to the results of such action, time must pass. We went into battle with the causes of the problem. Reform laws have been passed, and the new ones are still waiting for this meeting. We are facing a search of public enterprises, regulatory reform awaits us, companies are waiting for us to restructure, tax reform will gradually reduce burdens, while at the same time reducing the tolerance to flee to the gray economy. There's a lot of things ahead of us, and we're not running away from it, but we're not going to say it gives results right now. It takes time to produce fruit, and something has to be done right away. We can't do well first, and then we can change. We need to be realistic, the situation is not good at first sight, and we have reason to believe that it can be better if it is brave and determined to work to solve the cause of the problem. On that road, of course, we will find ourselves obstacles, because if we fail, the consequences will be very bad. We came to the end one time, of course, and now we're at the beginning of a new one. The road to old, macadamia was heavy, and now we're on a nice highway and we're building the highways of the fiscal economy. Roads that bring more wages, higher rates of GDP, low unemployment and, of course, a better life. To avoid boasting, because it's so sweet, so warm, so intoxicating, so irresponsible, but it's not without a grain of caution. We entered a small deficit zone that was projected, and then greatly replaced by a surplus deficit that does not raise public debt to GDP, but reduces it. We're using old fuel, allowed doping, and that's a sign that we've come to where we're going and that our test for the future is whether we're going to know that we're using this growth friend to keep us warm, not burn us, like a decade ago. The credit rating is getting better and it's up to us to move forward with the reforms. We raise salaries in the public sector, and thus finally people, who have put up with the burden of reform, now that they have conditions, are rewarded for everything they have given to our country. He can't complain about our doctors, our teachers, our scientists, and he can't invest in them at the same time. It might be better if the funds were directed more precisely, but that is a challenge for next year, it's going to be better, the debate is focusing on whether it's going to be very good or just good. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, unlike many who have also focused the mediocre results on increasing wages, and we have forgotten the infrastructure, we have not forgotten public investment, Serbia is a country where there is no imagination of infrastructure, but a country where it is built and for this rebalancing, we can say it is investment. Our only concern is absorption, not lack of funds. We know that the news is that rebalancing is not a cost-cutting or a new task, and you should get used to it. It's a good thing it's not the result of a visionary robbery privatisation or the spending of income that everyone knows once in a while. We don't think we need to say if we're going to support the fruits of our work or whether we're going to continue to work better. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61403	Thank you, Mr. Radenkovic. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go, Mr. Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61404	I thank the chairman. Dear fellow ministers, dear fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, I will present myself as I have so far, whether it's funny or not, but I'm not hiding, I'm from Svrlig, it's the most beautiful municipality in Serbia located near the town of Nis, it's the most beautiful city in Serbia. Otherwise, in the Assembly, I was elected on the list of SNS Alexander Vucic, otherwise representing the United Peasants' Party. In our parliamentary club where half of us are socialists, the United Peasants' Party and the People's Peasants' Party, we have always talked about all these things that concern all of us in the Assembly with an emphasis on agriculture, on economy and everything that matters to all of our people in Serbia. By the way, Your Honor, I think I also voted as an MP in the previous period for both our government and voted for you as Minister because I had confidence, precisely because our President Aleksandar Vukic also proposed our prime minister, and of course all of you, i.e. She suggested it, but normally, with his consent. I think that's the right thing to do, because the period from 2014 to 2016 was the period when it was really squeezed and it was pretty hard for agriculture, business and pensioners. But it has now yielded results and these results are now visible. By investing now in bigger pensions, bigger salaries for all those people who work for the needs of our citizens, it's all about what we do, what you do. Otherwise, the ministry you run along with your people at the Ministry, I can say that you're really doing everything right, for the needs of all those, and those small municipalities that I come from, where we've had some conversations with you, where you've done everything right, and I thank you, because you've been following every penny where it's being spent. That's the way it's supposed to be. It's domestic business. I think as an MP, I will also support this proposal of this rebalancing and all that has been said both today and tomorrow, and also the day after tomorrow, because I think it is necessary for our people living in Serbia, with a special emphasis on southeastern Serbia. Someone says that 5,000 dinars, this one-time help that it's nothing, let them come to us in our small communities, to our villages, where a man has a agricultural pension, how small it is, that a large number of these 5,000 dinars, for them it will mean that they can pay taxes, that they can pay the electricity, that they can provide themselves with the essentials of what they need for the winter period. It's a really big deal for our pensioners. An increase in pensions since 2020, an increase in salaries for our medics, for our people who work in the police, security services, for all those who work for the needs of our citizens. It's a big deal. It could only be done like this, in a realistic way, when there are real resources, when people are employed in Serbia, when there is all that is needed, and on top of that, investment in infrastructure. I'm sure we'll open the highway to Dimitrovgrad very quickly, according to Bulgaria, that road is in the final stage. This time towards Greece is open, built, highway "Milos Veliki", which means there is a lot of work to be done about infrastructure. Where infrastructure works, bringing investors, new businessmen, and normally, it is a great opportunity, and it is Serbia's only chance of developing. Otherwise, it's not just the state roads, it's also the railroads. Here, I'm a witness to the railroad, I've repeated several times, from Nis to Književci, Zaječar, that railroad is done with a full pair, and it's going to be another big thing for our people living in eastern Serbia. Dear Minister, once again, thank you for working with maximum correctness, well, for the needs of all of us, with a special accent, I say for small municipalities, for small environments and for southeastern Serbia. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61405	Thank you, Mr. Miletic. The word has a National MP, Momo Colaković. Here you go, Mr. Cholakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61406	Mr. Vice-President with an associate, respected ministers with associates, honourable MPs, vice-president, or deputy president of the PUPS Group, Mr. Kovacevic made very precise statements of our parliamentary group regarding the laws on the Parliament's agenda. Also, MP Ćorovic spoke very professionally about the issues that are most important in our party's programme. I have defined myself to talk briefly about one issue that is very important, which is a question of the pension-inhabited system. I must say, I repeat something that I said earlier, that the 2014 reforms were among the best results, when it comes to pension-inhabited insurance. I'm just going to remind you of that claim. First of all, I agree with Minister Sinish Mali about the measures taken and the results we have achieved, which he presented in his opening presentation, as with most of the MPs who have spoken so far, and therefore there is no special need for me to repeat things. Part of pension-involvement reform is next. Retirement of pensions at close to 14%, is now 10.2%. The participation of the budget in payment, I cannot accept the presentation of one MP who said they were donations to pensioners. That's not how you can say it, it's money earned and budget participation from 48% fell to 27.9% today. That's a big and huge score. It should also be said that the work of the PIO Fund is much different than it was. I'm not going to talk more widely about it, but for example, the solutions that are given have been shortened with sometimes years of waiting, for a few months. The payment of contributions has also grown very significantly. This included 1,707,592 pensioners. They supported the 2014 measures, and today they contribute to this and today they support the promoter of these measures, which is the president of the state of Aleksandar Vukic. It is up to you, Ministers, to return them in a certain way and in a proper manner. I have to say that this is also proposed in the 2019 budget rebalancing, but I also think that this should be taken into account both in the fiscal policy for 2020 and next year. out of 1,707,592 pension users, 443,048 receive pensions of 11.272,77 dinars or 14.383,72 dinars, which is about 100 or 120 euros. Also, 1,400,276 pensioners receive up to an average pension of 26,352 dinars. Dear Minister, according to these pensioners, we must have a special relationship and care. I must welcome the measures you take at the Ministry of Finance, and especially the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Social Policy, and the fact that in the coming years, that part of the pension user has a better and better standard. That, first of all, I have to link it to the state's capabilities. Since the time of the parliamentary group is approaching, I would like to ask for a little more attention. I have to warn you about what happened, Mr Kovacevic said that, the average pension rate, or the average salary, fell below 50%. We have to keep that in mind, given everything you've said here today. And lastly, Mr. Minister, I ask that what I have brought out and the MPs of the parliamentary groups, you have in mind when preparing, as Mr. Mijatovic also asked, when preparing documents for the fiscal 2020 and in the coming years. I believe we'll be able to achieve what you said in the coming years. One personal message, and I will speak later on about the measures to be taken by local self-government, should be followed more carefully by Mr. Alexander Vukic, president of the state, when he talks about pensioners. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61407	Thank you, Mr. Cholakovic. Now the word has a folk letter from Olivera Pesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61408	Thank you. Honorable ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the budget rebalancing, is scheduled to spend all the extra funds achieved in the state register by the end of the year. For the past four years, we also had a surplus in the state register, which was used to reduce the enormously high public debt. The government of the Republic of Serbia now had two choices, that in 2019 we end up with a surplus of about 0.5% of GDP and that the public debt decreases by about two percentage points and another solution, i.e. the second choice to spend the surplus in the state cash register in full, i.e. the rebalancing plan for an acceptable level of the budget deficit of 0.5% of GDP, as the goal we sought when we made the 2019 budget, and that is the goal which ensures that the public debt of the Republic of Serbia is reduced by two percentage points per year. The government of the Republic of Serbia has defined itself as a positive rebalancing where all the surplus that has been achieved in the state register will be spent since the public debt has been reduced from more than 78% of GDP to around 50% of GDP and since there is no longer a public finance crisis today. The crisis of public finances does not exist, above all, because of the responsible policy led by the government of the Republic of Serbia, and primarily because of the responsible policy led in previous years thanks to the difficult fiscal consolidation measures and economic reforms that the government has started to implement with Aleksandra Vucic since 2014, and this trend has continued later in the government of Ana Brnabic. For Serbian citizens, it is important that they know that the public debt is falling with the dynamics we planned in previous years and that we have somehow welcomed that moment so that we can finally give way to the belt that would be said in the people and spend the surplus we have in the state register so that we can simply give Serbian citizens a better standard of living and better living conditions. So again, this is the first positive rebalancing in Serbia's history, and we will have 50 billion more in the state register at the end of 2019 than was planned by the 2019 Budget Law. With this rebalancing, the government proposed how to spend this money, or proposed an increase in the following expenditures. Nine billion to pay off one-off aid of 5,000 dinars as a one-time aid, a one-time check for all our pensioners, two billion dinars to raise salaries in the state sector, 13 billion dinars for investment in infrastructure, nine billion dinars for solving Swiss franc credit problems, ten billion dinars for investing in the security sector that applies, of course, to the equipment of the military and police and seven billion for early repayments of loans. We can certainly tell the SNS that this is a good plan. What has somehow been most criticised today as the unwarranted spending of the surplus funds that we have in the government's register is the increase in wages in the public sector. The government's proposal is that the largest profit increase in the public sector is 15%, doctors 10.9% of education, judges, prosecutors, social security and the security sector, and 8% of the increase is proposed for state administration employees. The government of the Republic of Serbia has a clearly defined policy regarding investment in health. Last year, we had the largest salary increase in the public sector for healthcare workers, and so continues this year. So the biggest salary increase in the public sector is for nurses and doctors. This made it clear that the government of the Republic of Serbia has a policy according to the health system of the Republic of Serbia, in the sense that it is disturbing healthcare professionals to stay in their country, because in this way the government of the Republic of Serbia shows them to think about them and expect better days in Serbia. When we talk about an increase in wages, and somehow these one-time compensations that we are planning to pay to our pensioners have today been tried by the opposition MPs to present to the SNS and the Government of the Republic of Serbia that, in fact, these pay and pension increases are planned as one of the populist measures of the Government of the Republic of Serbia because we are expected to vote in the spring. If the SNS were to run a populist policy, any kind of populist policy, it would today likely suggest that pensioners be given a check of, for example, 20,000 dinars of one-off aid or that health wages increase instead of 15, 30%. However, the SNS does not lead a populist policy, but it proposes those measures that are realistic and proposes to increase wages and pensions that will not endanger all that we have done for years, or that will not endanger fiscal stability. In the end, Alexander Vucic is the one who came to the public in 2014 and proposed a reduction in wages and pensions and again received the highest support of citizens in the previous elections. So I find it at least incorrect that those who were guilty of passing all the laws in this assembly today accuse the SNS of carrying out populist measures, because it does not, in 2008 did some other governments that increased pensions by 20% before the elections, and then brought the state to the brink of bankruptcy and brought pensioners into that situation that no longer the state was able to pay them regular pensions. So, I said that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has a clear policy on raising pensions, so this surplus that we now have in the state register is thought to allow a check of 5,000 dinars to be delivered as a one-time aid, because it was the pensioners who put up with the most difficult burden of fiscal consolidation and thank them for that. They also expect an increase in pensions as of January 1st. This rebalancing suggested ten billion dinars to be set aside for military and police equipment. Although the Fiscal Council believes that these ten-billion-dollar investments are too high and that overinvestment in the security sector is at all for 2019, and we have had the opportunity to hear such a comment today from SMS MEP Vladimir Đurić who said - I believe that investments are high, but now you will say that the previous government has passed the tanks. The Serbian Progressive Party is proud to single out into the security sector and, of course, we will say that the previous government has passed the tanks and that we are now working in a completely different direction. To conclude the rebalancing will, above all, allow for a better standard of living for all Serbian citizens and it is clear that during the rebalancing, the government of the Republic of Serbia led to better living conditions for all Serbian citizens, but also made sure that it did not in any way compromise the fiscal stability achieved in previous years. So these expenditures will not endanger the stability of the budget, the public debt will continue to decline with the planned dynamics. We have low and stable inflation and we have a stable course of dinars and this is a common result of the work of the president of the Republic of Serbia, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the National Bank of Serbia, so teamwork. I will only use one more minute at the end to say that the surplus in the state register will allow better living conditions for all citizens of Serbia, but also for the citizens of Leskovec and Jablanic County where I come from and whose citizens I represent, because precisely thanks to the surplus that is now in the national register we in Leskovec today have the realization of three huge infrastructure projects. The state is able to finance the approach route today, and from Vlasotinc to Leskovec, which has not been reconstructed for 50 years. It is the road of Pečice – Brestovac and in which day we expect to start with the reconstruction of the complete Bulevar Nikola Pasic. With budget savings, it was possible to build 20km of access roads from all directions to the city in Leskovac. I will finish, I thank you on behalf of all citizens of the Government of the Republic of Serbia for the smooth development, for the policy of even development and especially for the care of southern Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61409	Thank you, colleague Pesic. The word now has the People's MP Milisav Petronijevic. Here you go, Mr. Petronievich.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61410	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister with Associates, fellow MPs, the SPS parliamentary group will support and vote for all three proposed laws. That is what our position, the court, was presented by the authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group, Dejan Radenkovic. I'm just going to try to remind myself of some of the details of the rebalancing that confirm the success of economic policymaking by this government and which is why it is necessary to vote for this kind of rebalancing. One good news the other day, somehow at the end of a very successful visit by the president of the Republic, the UN foreign minister, met with representatives of nearly 100 countries fighting for Serbia, arriving another good news recognition has improved Serbia's credit rating to BB plus, and this speaks of the state of public finances and this confirms that in Serbia public finances are stable. I would also like to point out that, in addition to this, the 2019 rebalancing is another confirmation of the success of the implementation of economic policy by this government. What does that mean? It means when all of this is taken into account that Serbia has entered the ranks of countries that are regulated, in which economic policy, in which it is held responsible for its stability, is to the stability of public finances. The reform course and measures implemented so far show that the government is leading a successful economic policy, and the confirmation of this is established and preserved fiscal stability, a rapid reduction of public debt. It's a 52% figure. I don't know if you heard me correctly, I didn't say 72%, I said 52%. Permanently high inflow of foreign direct investment, somewhere over a hundred, with about two billion and 300 euros. Stable and continuous economic growth, halved unemployment to 10.3%, and I would further highlight increased employment. This further confirms the importance of reducing this unemployment. Low stable and predictable inflation. So now we have stable and low inflation and a stable course. Inflation is somewhere at the lower limit of 2.2% as far as I've heard and understood. I want with the government's support for this kind of economic policy to support the NBS with my part of the activity in this regard. What else does the rebalance say? That we have macroeconomic stability which means that the state has a surplus, a fiscal surplus if I understand the figure from 46.4 billion to August. Is that something? This surplus is not due to increased taxes, but it is and should be pointed out that it is partly due to good tax collection. What else does the rebalance say? To invest domestically in cheaper loans to replace old and expensive. To invest in infrastructure facilities as a further bearer of growth and development in Serbia. I would especially like to point out, given that we are in an investment cycle that should be encouraged by investment but also by domestic demand, therefore the wage and pension growth that are envisaged, in addition to improving living standards should not be seen as a cost but as an investment in growth. Rebalance also shows that private consumption of investments in addition to exports remains growth bearers in 2019. The government remains defined to improve the economic environment and ensure a high rate of economic growth with the ultimate goal of reducing unemployment and raising the standard of living. I am convinced that the government will be on constant watch, knowing that economic movements are taking Serbia out in the coming period to a large extent, and that the movement seems to be in an international economic environment. All the things I spoke of were full support to the government of the Republic of Serbia. Responsible management of economic and fiscal policy in the previous period, financial measures that were very often unpopular, today deliver results and today the main story is about the rebalancing that these results are best used. What is characterized by the need to support this government not only created this result but also decided to propose that the money that is surplus, the fiscal surplus that the citizens are returning to the citizens and returning it through an increase in capital investment that will further improve growth in Serbia through the abolition of the crisis measures in pensions and wages, the increase in public sector wages, the reduction in tax burden of labour. But what's characteristic? All this allows for the realisation and development and social objectives of the budget. It should be noted in the previous period that an increase in pensions and salaries in the public sector was carried out with a strict principle of fiscal sustainability, now by keeping a serious and responsible economic and fiscal policy created a space for increasing wages in the real sector especially in those categories of employees who need additional stimulant. The government recognized the state's interest in stopping the outflow of young and professional personnel, I mean doctors and medical technicians, but also other experts needed by the state to make progress. Of course, very important areas of social, children's protection of culture, education, and, of course, the state administration that needs to be professional. But what is there to say? The social component of the budget can be realised thanks to increased economic growth, as they would say, on sound grounds. What I want to support the government, which is that the government needs to continue its activities, to settle the public sector pay system through the payment system. I also have my support and that it does so in a serious, responsible way, precisely, in detail, to come up with the right solution, which will be applicable. When it comes to further support, when it comes to giving up sliding measures when it comes to pensions, what is characteristic, which is that the rebalancing says pensions will increase in accordance with the Pension invalidity Insurance Act. One support for that. Second, even more support is for the government's announcement that this member of the Pension invalidity Insurance Act will also change and introduce a pension indexation system, half the average profit, and half at the cost of so-called. Swiss system. So, this economic policy and macroeconomic stability, in addition to active foreign policy, other than what I was talking about, contributes to improving Serbia's international reputation as a serious country that wants to enter a world of developed and join the European family of developed countries. I'll be back to square one. I've only tried to remind myself of what the rebalancing says and what it confirms and proves one successful economic policy of this government. For these reasons, we will give support and vote in favour of the proposed laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61411	Thank you, Mr. Petronievich. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go, Mr. Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61412	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament and Mr. Mali, here, all day long we've been practically listening to praises from you, which from the representatives of the ruling coalition in an attempt to explain to us how well Serbian citizens live and that, as you say, this golden age we live in. You may have convinced each other, although I'm not sure about that either, but I'm pretty sure you haven't convinced the citizens of Serbia. You, Mr. Mali, talked about how you plan to give one-time help to pensioners and even thanked them, although it was because they carried the burden of reform, and I think it's completely absurd to thank the pensioners, because the pensioners didn't ask, nor did they agree in any way that they were the ones who borne the costs of reform. Pensioners worked hard their whole lives, spent money on pensions, and lived decently from them, not waiting for someone to give them one-time aid of 5,000 dinars, for which, as you said, they would pay for the heat, buy the winter, and another third thing was that I forgot. I don't know when you were the last time you bought the heating, when you last made or bought the winter, obviously either you've never done that, or you're not nearly there, because with those 5,000 dinars, it's hard for pensioners to do anything. You talk about how you build roads, highways and that's good, and we welcome and need to be as many highways in Serbia as possible, but not at the price at which you do it. The question is to build this so-called. The forest corridor did not go the way it did, and we warned a year before that Zorana Mihajlovic plans to give the job to an American firm for 800 million. You've convinced us that's not true. Finally, you pass the law, exempt that job from public procurement, and that's where we estimate it stolen, at least about 300m euros. For these 300m euros, many more highways could be built. So if it weren't for stealing and corruption, everything in Serbia would look much better. Let's get to the specifics. The representatives of your coalition today boasted that in 2012, 750 billion dinars were on the revenue side of the budget, and that you today have, no less or more, income of 1,290 billion. That when one looks at a man, seven years from now, is really an impressive increase, an increase of 540 billion dinars or 72% of total 2012 income, 72% is a higher tax procedure, 72% more pick-up than citizens and than businesses in Serbia, through taxes, through excise taxes, through various other charges, and than Osmanli, you are incomparably more successful in that discipline, which is called raising money from citizens. You boast of a surplus, a surplus of 46.6 billion, 46.6 billion dinars is only about 8.6% compared to that increase. We heard today from Mr. Marijan Risticevic who asked where that money went in 2012. My question is, where does that money go in 2019? The budget accounts for 540 billion dinars more this year than in 2012. You need to explain where that money is going. There's not that many highways. Look out, that's 4.6 billion euros. By 4.6 billion euros, you increased the budget's revenue and, of course, increased expenditure. Where's that money going? It's huge money. So the surplus you have is only 8.6% of that money as much as you earn, and that's where they could be done, not tens of miles of highway, but thousands. I repeat, it's 4.6 billion euros. Meanwhile, pensions have been frozen, reduced by 10%, banned employment in the public sector, and there have been salaries of these previous five years, practically remained at the same level, which means that relative to the rise in prices and prices to small, incomparably less than they were, and that Serbia's wage power is incomparably lower. Now I ask you, where's the money going? You said that a billion will go to health care, you're building new health centers. I was recently with my child, with a baby for eight months at the Institute for Mother and Child, which is next to Tirshova, practically two main children's hospitals in Belgrade, where children from all over Serbia come in. They didn't have the opportunity to do the papal CRP, but to take children who come and take blood out of the veins to carry out an analysis that's very simple, neither expensive nor anything. And then I ask you, Mr. Minister, how is that possible in the golden age? This is something that every home of health would have to have, not to say every more serious medical clinic, every more serious private clinic has and how is it possible that there is no money in the golden age for these basics and that for one of the two largest children's clinics in Belgrade? You're talking about how the state is giving out funds for people who had loans in Swiss francs. It is true that there are a lot of these people in Serbia, but you don't single out for them, but you single out instead of banks, and that's a huge difference. Each year, foreign banks draw hundreds of millions of euros of pure profit from Serbia and instead of having enough courage and to charge them for taking their skin off the backs of Serbian citizens, to punish these banks, you found a Solomonian solution in that you would not mind foreign banks, but rather you would, in fact, subsidize to the citizens of Serbia and thus ignore the question of why it was not done two and three and five years ago, why it was not done immediately after that big jump in the value of the Swiss franc, but waited until most of these loans were paid, that then as you react and it was too late. The unemployment rate, that's another big success of yours, is 10.2%, and at the same time you claim that the number of taxpayers in Serbia is lower. If the economic climate is so good and convenient, if you subsidize people to start new businesses, subsidize women, farmers, there's no one you don't subsidize, so it would be normal to increase the number of taxpayers? The situation is different and this unemployment rate falls, especially as many people leave Serbia with bread, and you're talking about having to import labour from other countries and I'd just like to hear what exactly the countries are, given that incomes and average wages are higher in all countries in the environment than in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61413	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61414	Member of the 107th Mr. Chairman - question of the dignity of the National Assembly. I don't know if you missed it, since there was a moment in this exhibit of a few minutes of everything and everything, but it was mentioned, and that's the first question, that something is being stolen with this rebalancing. It is mentioned that something has been stolen from someone's account here and questions are raised as to what it's going on. Another thing that should certainly have been reacted to when it was explained seems to be the application of the same Culibrko digitron as Mr Arsic spoke of. I don't know if you heard that, but we're talking about 47 billion dinars. The MP comes in, probably from a walk, and he says it's 4.6 billion euros. So 47 billion dinars isn't 4.6 billion euros, because the course isn't and I don't remember it almost being 1:10, and it's repeated several times. Nemanja Sarovic: Come on, take a stenogram. ) It makes it clear to me that they are applying the same digitron as this Culibrk, where the distribution instead of 600 euros was 6,600 euros. When they say it's stolen and we want to know what it's going on, we say that this rebalance refers to helping people who were in charge of Swiss francs, we say this goes on one-time support to pensioners, we say this goes on investment, we say this goes on an increase in wages. So is it possible that someone doesn't know what it's up to, that something doesn't make sense to him? Only those who were on a nice walk, came here, brought Culibrk's digitron and that's the only thing they did on the subject of preparing the session. They didn't read anything. Speaking of these salaries, this Culibrk said that never pay in Serbia will be an average of 500 euros. Using that same calculator or not, in a month and a half we expect congratulations and an apology from both Culibrka and those who don't know what course it is, probably not what year it is, and what's on the agenda and what it's going on we won't even mention how many they know.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61415	Thank you, Dr. Orlic. Yes, and you want the National Assembly to come forward in voting day. (Vladimir Orlic: No. Thank you. Mr. Sarovic, Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61416	I have to teach Mr. Orlic that if he wants to replicate or call on the Rules of Procedure, then he has to understand first, that's the first step, and the second, a little harder, is to understand what someone else in the National Assembly is saying from another parliamentary group. The data I have provided is very precise and, if he wishes, Mr. Orlic can also take a stenogram, so he can see that everything he has said has been interpreted completely wrong. Your MP, a member of the ruling coalition, read the data that in 2012, the revenue side of the budget, the revenue of the budget, was 750 billion dinars. This year, it's 1,290 billion. That's the difference between 540 billion and 540 billion is 4.6 billion euros. Do you understand now? Do I have to repeat it twice, three times, as many times as I have to? So, so much more is the Republic of Serbia income today from citizens and from Serbia's economy than it was in 2012. Isn't that right, Mr. Minister? Yes, it is. I said it was impressive data. Mr. Risticevic said in 2012 that 540 billion were stolen and now used. I ask what it's used for. Look, 4.6 billion euros isn't a little money, and if you haven't already stolen those 4.6 billion euros over the years and didn't steal it this year, then why did you have to take it from the pensioners, why did you have to ban public sector employment from freezing wages and everything else? So 4.6 billion euros is a lot of highways. Here, take it, you're talented at math and calculate how many kilometers of highway, how many clinical centres, how many kindergartens, kindergartens, schools, new jobs, subsidies for farmers. Calculate in any way. My question is completely legitimate. It's about budget rebalancing. You boast that you have more incomparably than yellow thieves in 2012, and what's more legitimate than asking where those 4.6 billion euros are going? So, it's a great honor that you've collected from the citizens of Serbia and from the economy, incomparably – 72% more than in the yellow of 2002. (President: Thank you, your time is up.) Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61417	You're welcome. I don't think I've hurt the Rules of Procedure, and you've used a little abuse of the Rules of Procedure to replicate, but well, I'm going to be a little liberal. The things we're discussing are important. The word is Dr. Vladimir Orlic, member of the 103rd Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61418	As to how the Rules of Procedure is used, that member of the 103rd Chairman speaks how you should act and I fully agree – exactly the same to all of us here. Let me tell you, I'm really glad that the MP who came by here from the walk realized some mistakes in walking, so he corrected himself. So it's not 47 billion dinars 4.7 billion euros. That's what we've absorbed, and I'm glad for that. How much is it possible to build a new highway when it's done domestically, as we do today, and it's not stolen, as it was in those golden times of Dragan Gilas, for which some seem to still yearn, so here's your data. More than 300km of highways have been built, an existing one can be seen today, in the last few years alone, and more than a hundred kilometers, the minister has also spoken of in the past year. That's one example for you. What does that have to do with the breach of the Rules of Procedure? Well, here I am, explaining to the gentleman who came out of the walk what that has to do with it. Where does that go and what are the differences? Look where it goes and what are the differences. See how it stands out for agriculture, forestry and water industry. This little yellow, it's in their time, and this big blue, it's in our time, it's today. That's the difference more than double. That's it. Education, science and technological development, again, is their little yellow and our big blue. Is it twice as big again? Double the size again. What do you want to know? Are you interested in health? Here's your health. This is one five, six times that. Look at this little yellow of theirs. So, in their time, everything was small, in addition to being yellow, if it were Serbia, if it were Belgrade, if it was the state and the people in any sense. Do you know what's with all their stories? From 2008 to 2012, there was a recession, there were difficult conditions, everything had to go down. And do you know what grew despite that recession? Their private companies. As severe a crisis as it may be, as planetary as it may be, Gilas's companies have progressed each and every year. From year to year, more and more, then the balance says – 619m euros ended up on his company's accounts, and everything else went down because he was first interested in this, and this second didn't interest him. And the ones that Dragan Gilas kept on his budget probably yearning for that time when he was doing well, his companies and his, but these are the differences that Serbia sees, so that's why Serbia says today -- this is good, we see what's going on and we support it, and that's exactly what we want. If others don't see it, I won't blame anyone, yet a man can't follow a session and walk. Right?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61419	Thank you, Dr. Orlic. I don't think I've hurt Article 103. Rules of Procedure. (Vladimir Orlic: I do not want to plead.) ) You do not want to plead, thank you. Necessa Sarovic, here comes the Rules of Procedure again.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61420	In accordance with Article 27, Mr. Chairman, I appreciate that you are, as you say, liberal and I will just for the sake of your tolerance to continue in this cultural and civilized tone and I really cannot, nor want to descend to this level of the previous speaker. So, some here obviously think that the strength of the arguments can be compensated by shouting, by trying to offend someone in the O.R. I can't be offended by people like this, so I know who I am and what I am and what I speak only in the language of numbers. So here's to repeat what I said. In 2012, the revenue side of the budget was 750 billion dinars, today it is 1,290 billion. Is any of that data incorrect? Mr. Minister, is that exactly what I'm saying? Is it true? Yes, it is. So, here, confirms Mr. Sinisha Mali that that's true. The difference, children in the second grade know the difference, the difference is 540 billion dinars, that's 4.6 billion euros, and that's how much more annual you get from citizens and from Serbia's economy through taxes, through excises and all the other charges, and 72% more taken than yellow thieves took. Now the question is why did you build a 100km highway without building a 500km highway in the previous year, or 800? Now, that's the point. Because you're setting up Burazer jobs, because Zorana Mihajlovic gives the job of building the Forest Corridor for 800 million for, I think, 117km, and it turns out to be more expensive than that most expensive share on the planet through the Gredeli ravine. Looks like it's harder to build a path through the Woodland than it was through the Gredile ravine, which is why it's more expensive. No, it's not, it's a thief and it's been stolen at least 300 million on that one job. You shut down that public procurement business so you could mix it up, what other reason would that be? Well, if there's no public procurement control at 800 million-euro jobs, then what do you need for these smaller ones?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61421	Thank you, colleague Sarovic. Do you want the National Assembly to plead my injury to Article 27? Nemanja Sarovic: No. No, no, no, The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go. (The Faith of Radeta: I answered before him, guaranteed.) You'll get your turn. Easy, we've got time, we're in no hurry. We've opened the debate. Don't be angry. You're in the system. Dr. Orlic, so do you. Here you go, Dr. Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61422	Article 112, Mr. Chairman, which also offers a possible solution to end with an obvious desire to be in the first place, but I can see that the wish has ended in the meantime, as he came out of the hall an MP who only came to report while he was walking. It's tragic, you know, when a MP doesn't want to accept some simple thing just because he doesn't want to. For some deeper, more serious reason, I could understand that kind of behavior, but I just want to get involved, to show how scary, dangerous and loud it is, well, I can never understand it, so when it's done and made mistakes. Among other things, the Shumadian and the Moravian corridor mix, right? Now, by the way, we're just talking about this Moravsky, that's about this rebalancing right here. And whenever someone puts out a grudge and why this corridor, and why not that corridor, and why so much money, why not so much money, has to go back to two things. The first is that whoever thought it could do something different, better, more efficient, cheaper and faster, whatever he meant, he should have done it the way he thought. Now that we've had the time to work things out and we're working things out, there's no point in getting angry about what we're dealing with. It doesn't make sense for anyone to be mad at us for fulfilling decades of dreams, which is what's been waiting for this country for 70 years, now we're turning it into reality. Another thing that must be returned to anyone who wants to deal with these matters, ladies and gentlemen, today Serbia not only does not have to choose whether it wants corridors or as someone said pensions. Today, Serbia, this rebalancing says -- yes, we have for both the corridors and the pensions and for the assistance in the Swiss francs and for the new investment, both the second and the third, and the fourth, anything that has never occurred to you before. We are doing this today because today Serbia can and does not take anything from anyone, but today people have much more trust in their country, so they want to pay more taxes. Today people work much more in this country because they have conditions for it, so that tax is higher. Look at how many people are engaged today, how much income we have on that basis alone. These are things for which every man, an honest, decent citizen can only be content and say – so I am pleased. I'm glad I'm in a country that's stood up on its feet, which keeps my spine straight. I'm glad I'm in a country that has a quality way that I don't have to say – see what the Germans have, I'll never have. I'm glad to be in a country that has both clinical centres and kindergartens and schools and that, while we're at those famous digitrons used by Culibrci and whatever, it's going to have an average salary of 500 euros for a month and a half from today. Then that man will say, "I'm happy to be in a country like this, even though I've once been wrong to rely on strange accounts of others." However, I do not want to be so incorrect as to say – it is not good, but I will say – well done, and perhaps even to participate in the efforts to make it even better tomorrow. Whoever doesn't want to go for a walk like the one before, everything's fine.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61423	Thank you, Dr. Orlic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, the Belief of Radeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61424	Article 107(2) Last sentence of Article 2, if you hesitate what I mean, read it. So it is possible that Nemanja Sarovic made a lapus when he said "Shumadian" instead of "Moorian Corridor". Here's to remind me, Moravsky Corridor, that's where Zorana Mihajlovic stole over Bechtela 300m euros from the republican budget. As to whether a colleague, Nemanja Sarovic, was on a walk so he was there or not, there is no right to ask. He came here and spoke when he was up, and what he was doing in the meantime, it's not about anyone in this room. Speaking of these questions, folks, if you're watching and who's watching this, today we're discussing budget rebalancing. Minister Sinisha Mali is here all day. From the ruling MPs during the day, from morning until now there were numbers between 20 and 48 MPs, I personally counted, I knew that it might come to this, that I would be able to say it, and I would say it in the debate. Indeed, here I spoke to some MPs who were really sitting there all day wondering for themselves, and here we are now asking Serbian radicals, why is the ruling majority boycotting Sinisha Mali? Why doesn't the ruling majority want to listen? Mr. Sinisha Mali has shown interest in what he came here to do today, has been talking all day and answering the questions of the MPs, but it did not interest the MPs of the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61425	Thank you, colleague Radeta. I just don't understand why you didn't ask for a replica, you could have gotten a replica. Dr. Vladimir Orlic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61426	Article 106. So the least important thing is that the gentleman came here when he came. If he'd just followed up on what it was, he wouldn't have made such mistakes, he wouldn't have thought for a second that the dinar-euro ratio was one to ten, for starters. On the other hand, it wasn't his time at all, but he asked the chairman to call him when he was okay because he was walking past the building at the time, that's the least of the problems. It's a much bigger problem when it comes to telling lies like the truth that something is being stolen in this country. We tell you nicely, it's true, the number knows how much it goes to help the pensioners. It's true, the number knows how much we're increasing wages from sector to sector. It is true, again, that the number of different investments goes, and that is, once again, as hard as it is for some to hear, good things for Serbia. No one should be angry and feel that he is obliged to be dissatisfied because we show that our policy is successful. He needs to find a way to compete with good things, certainly by not making a lie like these – we don't know what is, we don't know because it is and it doesn't suit us. After all, not so transparent of the truths, like this last one, as it was, today we were here from the parliamentary majority of 20 to 40. Ladies and gentlemen, when you do not remember today's afternoon, one session has begun today, and 126 and more MPs of the parliamentary majority have come forward during the vote on the agenda. These are some things that a regular viewer also knows that from time to time turns another channel of RTS, without the MP knowing it, and perhaps even vice president of the Assembly, so it's a shame.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61427	Thank you, Dr. Orlic. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. ) The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61428	I'm advertising Article 108. Rules of Procedure. (The Faith of Radeta: again before me.) )
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61429	No, of course not, but we're going in order. Arsic checked in 10 minutes ago, believe me, while you were talking. Here you go, Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61430	Don't count me these 16 seconds, please. Article 108, because a fellow who spoke in the debate in principle, firstly, was very insulting about the government of the Republic of Serbia and asked the question of how much the budget was bigger and how this, that is, the government of the Republic of Serbia took the money from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. It's not the citizens of the Republic of Serbia who made tax evasion, it's the tycoons in Serbia who ruled until 2012. The first Aleksandar Vukic said -- no, he will pay all taxes, including them as any ordinary citizen of the Republic of Serbia. Now let's discuss this expense side. First, a colleague should be respected to know that we are paying a billion euros a year in interest on loans that that bastard has raised. So we have donations to the Health Insurance Fund, it's the health care of our citizens, 30 billion dinars, so we have 120 billion dinars of social protection from the Republic of Serbia's budget, they're the poorest, the most vulnerable of our citizens, so we have 174 billion dinars for the Pension, Disability and Social Insurance Fund, they're pension increases, so let's figure out how much the highways cost, to buy him a digitron, but I'm not going to use Milan Culibrk.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61431	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. ) The word has been given by the People's MP Milorad Mircic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61432	Article 104. I don't see any reason, Mr. Marinkovic, why don't you follow the Rules of Procedure, running this assembly? This debate takes a completely different dimension, i.e. in a different direction. No one's walking around here, gentlemen, nor is it passing through, we're all MPs here. Whether someone is presently absent or not, there are different activities within the Assembly and various activities within the Parliamentary Group. That doesn't necessarily mean denying an answer to an MP who logically asks. The source of his information is Ambassador Marijan Rističević. We need sources, because you don't give sources, you're a forger right now. The source is Marijan Rističević. He's calling it a day. And instead of saying he made a mistake, he made an oversight and a finished story, we're going here to argue, we're still bringing in so much heat that a man can't believe it. If the Witch of Radeta says there were 40 of you, there were fewer of you. Because of some of its painful relations, it increases the number of MPs present from the ruling coalition, who should listen to their minister's budget rebalancing. Now it should be respected that she, who has been sitting here since this morning, does not see well. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Don't, if nothing else, respect the ladies. Respect the ladies at least, fellow Members of Parliament. And to you, Mr. Marinkovic, I advise you to lead the Assembly in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Of course, you're known as a tolerated man.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61433	Thank you, colleague Mircic. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. I'm sorry, Mr. Risticevic is not here, so we can't even have a proper debate. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go. (Miss Radeta: Again? What about me? ) Respect the Rules of Procedure and give first...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61434	Some colleague of Radeta's, a colleague of Marinkovic's. I'll give my colleague Radetti a pass, and I'll take it. Can you do that? Don't give me any credit, no, no, no. )
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61435	No, well, I respect the Rules of Procedure, so just get it over with. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61436	Article 109. Rules of Procedure. Again, whether someone's passing or not, I don't know. We are all equal here, we have all received a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2019, but unlike those who ruled here until 2012, we also have professional services to assist MPs, including colleagues Nemanja Sarovic. Otherwise, we have an accidental parliamentary budget office, also available documentation. Everything is beautifully written and where money is spent and how it is spent and how many increases and how many differences are made, but it should be read. That seems to be his biggest problem. If he knows or doesn't know how to read, I don't know.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61437	Thank you, colleague Arsic. Do you want the National Assembly to declare itself in the day of voting on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. I call upon all the messengers of the people not to insult one another. That was true of Sarovic, who is not here. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61438	If the opposition political party says it suspects the government is stealing money, it is a political stance and it is no insult, but if the MP suspects that his colleague can read, it is an insult. If he tells the MPs, who don't sit here, that they're bastards, that's an insult. I agree they are, but it is an insult. Here, I insulted them too. But my colleague used to say that I didn't count well, because you started the session this morning, etc. Yes, gentlemen, instead of 9:45, at 10:05 p.m., you started voting because you were the government, and you failed to provide a voting quorum. And I don't count you, you count yourself. Now there you are, all together, here you are, count yourself down, 35. And the tragedy is that someone who is the ruling majority is not interested in listening to the budget rebalancing debate. It's not just that you're praising it, but to hear it, maybe someone learns something from both Cynthia Small and from us who were really getting ready for this debate and from you, from those who were preparing for the debate. But how do you do, my dear colleagues? When you finished the vote and adopted the agenda, what was at the door was terrible to watch. It's just a purse in the hand and a race, like a stampede on the door. Now in the day, here is how whoever ends up with you, how whoever finishes his speech, purse in his arms, goes and doesn't come back. Now, that's how you work, if you want us to represent to the people how the MPs function. I don't know exactly what's funny, but you don't speak, you don't go out. So if you talk one day, maybe you'll come out right after that. No wonder they're counting you for this new parliamentary list. God, here, if they see how interested you are today in Sinisha Mali and the budget, the one that counts you will have something to see.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61439	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to declare itself in the day of voting on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) The word has the People's MP Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61440	And Article 104. Okay, since I see that we're back in normal streams, no one's trying to claim that they don't know what they're spending anymore, no one's trying to claim that it's no better than it was at that time that I still, as far as I can tell, are happy to remember, but it's just the problem that we told each other here. As far as I'm concerned, I apologize to anyone whose tender feelings are possibly touched. There's no need to waste any more time on that. If it really is a sincere invitation for us to discuss what is good in rebalancing and to learn from the present minister, I am sure that many of them have learned much from him today, but to learn further, it is always useful. As for those parliamentary lists, something tells me that our list, however it may seem, will again give more than half the MPs to sit in these benches after the next election. Whether someone else is going to waste their time rationally, trying to put together a list or not, that might be a question for them.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61441	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to declare itself in the day of voting on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. Let's move on. The People's Messenger Stanislav Janosevic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61442	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, fellow MPs, since we are at the beginning of the regular autumn session and we are opening important topics, I was really expecting and I hope that we will continue to have a discussion with facts and verifiable data, given that it is a sector that affects funding, and therefore the quality of life in our community. Looking at the global economy and geopolitical image in the world, I believe that the economy in Serbia is rising and growing and that we have stable macroeconomic indicators. When I say that stable macroeconomic indicators mean that we have a stable fiscal policy, that we have a decrease in public debt, as well as an increase in foreign direct investment and economic growth somewhere along with this attractive investment environment, of course, to affect the labour market and thus affect the decline of unemployment. In 2019, we had an increase in earnings, so the price of work per hour was increased, and thus reduced the contribution to unemployment on the employer's burden. It also reduced taxes on net earnings. As for inflation mentioned in 2019, it maintained a level of 1.6% and this is certainly foreseen by the NBS corridor, which definitely says that a stable foreign exchange market and macroeconomic measures affect our continued investment inflows, but also exports. A special effort is being made to reform public enterprises, simply to make it more efficient somewhere, but this also raises precautionary measures, i.e. monitoring to identify certain fiscal risks in order to maintain economic growth. The GDP rate mentioned several times today has maintained a level of 3.5% and by analysing the budget of the Republic of Serbia we note that we have increased revenues unlike the budget planned in 2019. First of all, this refers to tax revenues, so income tax, value added tax, excise tax revenues, but also non-tax revenues. Why do we have them? It is simply because of the responsible conduct of fiscal policy. With this surplus income, we will provide additional funding to increase profits, to have investments in infrastructure and in Serbia's roads at all, but also to help families with children. This rebalancing has a simple meaning somewhere. However, when we analyze all of this in such a fine way, we can also look deeper, those present in this tide, and especially those who do not need to say – well done, I take off my hat on the perseverance plan, but above all, the realization of all that you have done. You've been held back, you and your colleagues in the Government of the Republic of Serbia from our political inexperiences who are not here today, simply don't discuss these points of the agenda, but that's why they're on the streets, that's why they're on the road, that's why they're in front of the presidency building, as well as the Belgrade City Assembly, they're attacking journalists, attacking women, arguing each other, but they have one plan at heart. In recent months, they have analysed what they would offer to citizens, somewhere it should be in their favor, but they have made a plan for their own benefit, which is boycotting the election. Please, it's really a nice cover so they can justify the post-election result that must be their failure. Now I ask you, even if all their sympathisers come out, even all the yellows of this world to unite and go to elections to support this Alliance for Serbia, it will not be enough to beat the policy led by Aleksandar Vukic and led by the current Government of the Republic of Serbia, because it is exclusively a policy that works in the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. When I say that, I mean corridors, I mean highways through Serbia, I mean airports, I mean hospitals, I mean increases in profits, all capital things affecting the quality of life in the Republic of Serbia, but I also think of those small ones, and that means the Atarian road from Orlovat to Botoš, that means the Atari road from Taras and Elemir to Kuman, that means the road from Zrenjanin, Melenac to Kikinda, the bypass around Zrenjanin, which many have just talked about, washed their mouths, today my people are building. And Zrenjanin will get the highway to Belgrade. These are the things that show that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and that the policy of Alexander Vukic develops Serbia evenly, and it is especially commendable that he takes care of an ordinary citizen, a peasant in our country. For that reason, on the day of the vote, I will support all proposals of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61443	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61444	I thank you, Chairman. I will not repeat what my colleagues have already pointed out, apart from the attitude, the unequivocally clear position of the SPS, or our parliamentary groups, that we will support this set of laws that we are discussing today and draw attention to only some of the segments of one of the laws, and that is the overwhelming rebalancing of the budget. It seems to me that good cream in the political sense of words, and especially in that classical, economic sense, was given to my colleague and friend Dejan Radenkovic for discussion when he said that the story of painful cuts, about everything that followed the state's financial situation and everything we've been through, and that's undoubtedly one kind of catharsis, to come to the state we're in today. Why am I saying this? Since 2014, to this day, we have done a lot, but it would certainly be nothing if a rigid one had not gone in 2014 and it was completely rigorous, it is better to use this term, a policy that is related to the start of financial consolidation, the introduction of tax discipline, and then a number of savings that have led to the epilogue we have today, and this epilogue is a smooth possibility of increasing profits. I, the Honorable Minister, support you and personally as, by my profession, part of a branch of government, and that is a judicial authority, because finally because of your understanding of the situation in which you are employed in the judiciary, I'm not only talking about judges and prosecutors, I'm talking about those who do important jobs in the professional sense of words, and these are jobs that are neither judicial, nor prosecutorial, but jobs that are of an operational nature, matters that are of administrative nature, these are deputies and civil servants. However, what seems very important to me, despite the fact that you have made it possible to increase your earnings in the judiciary, I, the distinguished ministers, encourage you to continue to do so, primarily for reasons to prevent any corrupt activity in the judiciary and to be completely honest and open, Serbian citizens are justly dissatisfied with the situation in the judiciary and are justified in expecting us to fix this situation. The government of the Republic of Serbia and the policies of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is directed in this direction to improve this situation as quickly as possible through Chapters 23 and 24 and to meet all those requirements set before us. However, in order to prevent corruption, it is doubtless that both prosecutors and judges must have higher salaries than they are now, because if you take into account the indisputable fact, the fact that no one can doubt that the ratio of the average salary to the economy of the Republic of Serbia in relation to the salary of the judge of the basic court is very small, that it is not even one to two, then it is logical that it must continue to work in this direction by increasing these salaries. What is very important is that it is very important in this system to prevent large proportions in profits when it comes to holders of judicial functions, because it really is a big difference between profits, not to speak to the Constitutional Court judge in relation to the judges of the basic court, courts of the republican rank, appeals courts, etc. In that direction, without intending to discriminate or devalue the Constitutional Court judges, I think the other judges, in any case, should have a better position. At the very end, I have to point out one fact that is very affirmative, because the citizens of the Zlatibor County support everything that has been done for that end. They require further investment activities to be carried out, to make a kind of investment renaissance, especially by building a road, and the citizens of Užica are personally begging you, respected ministers, that in this budget rebalancing, it is not done, that the town of Užice is respected and in terms of what means preventing pollution, which is that 80 000 euros is provided for one of the boiler rooms for the city of Užica, for the needs of home health, where pollution is the most convincingly high. It's in the program of the Honorable Minister Trivan, so I ask you to make that investment part of the investment by the state happen in that direction. Thank you. The SPS support stands anyway.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61445	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Zoran Bojanić.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61446	Thank you, Your Honor. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, it's already been 20 hours and 30 minutes and we've heard a lot of good news today. First of all, Minister, your exposure was a quality explanation of this bill. Most fellow MPs, whether it was opposition or position, were correct. We all have opposing opinions, but, my God, that's why we're here. In particular, I would like to highlight here the presentation of the chairman of the Committee on Finance and fellow Members who are in the Committee on Finance, in a very high quality and extremely correct manner. Okay, we've heard little Perica's exposure and how he's thinking about budget rebalancing, but, my God. Mr. Minister, I think this budget rebalance, the first one since 2014, is the crown of something that was done in the previous period, right in the period from 2014. A crown of a difficult period behind us, a period of savings, a period of denial. I think the moment has come for all those who have given up, and this particular budget rebalance we are talking about, to be rewarded for it, both our pensioners and all those who are employed in the public sector. You'll hear a lot of objections, you'll hear a lot of grudges, but don't be surprised. Successful people always criticize and envy successful people. And that's why I'm not surprised by all the names of our President Alexander Vukic, because all of them, as many as there are, five, six, ten, in that SZS or whatever, not a single piece of what he's done since 2012, they haven't thought of doing. And so you, as minister for this short time, are giving excellent results. And then I was surprised why that famous chef Stevo Karapanja attacked you, until I realized it wasn't about him, but it was about some man who's a lecturer and who's just vain and who doesn't have any results behind him. Now I'd go back to what's important and I won't be long in my presentation. The budget office was all that you gave the bill summed up, and anyone who wanted to read it in the short version could have learned that the revenues were planned from 1.292 billion, that it was a 3.7% increase, that it was 46.4 billion, that expenditure was planned for 1.316 billion, that it was the same 3.7%, that it was 47 billion dinars, and that it was a deficit of 23.6 billion dinars, or 0.4% of GDP, and that it was 3.7%, meaning, like those two previous figures. This rebalancing is the result of good work, the result of successful work, the result that this government, the President of the Republic, has also given, in the end, and this assembly majority. I would briefly go through something, a report that resents us, which basically criticizes us and actually lets us know that it's done well and that it's done well. When we talk about budget revenues for 2019, it is said - favourable macroeconomic developments in the labour market are the main reason for better tax revenues in 2019, which is over 10%, and the budget plan for almost 20 billion dinars, i.e. income tax will be about 15 billion dinars higher than planned. What's he saying? It says that we have hired many more people in this period, that many more citizens of the Republic of Serbia are working, that they are creating and that these revenues are entering the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Also, excise revenues exceeded the budget plan mainly thanks to intensive consumption from oil derivatives. And yet it is 15 billion dinars and yet it is a significant increase compared to some previous period and compared to what was planned by the 2019 draft budget. He says again -- incomes from the corporate income tax have been realised in a larger amount, and yet it's still about 8.8 billion dinars. Here I would mention what no one has mentioned, that the first time since Telekom Srbija's stock company was founded this year, the government, which is a majority shareholder, has decided that dividends are not paid and that there is no income in the Republic of Serbia's budget, both the government's dividend as the largest shareholder and all of us, small shareholders, who were former employees of the PTT system or Telekom Srbija or current workers, and that the dividend is invested and that Telekom Serbia improves its base and invests everything in investment. Also, non-tax revenues will be higher than initials for about 10 billion dinars. Therefore, there is no observation that these are the means that we have actually achieved through our work and our savings. Then we move on to budget expenditure. It says -- budget expenditures are foreseen, and that is what most of our colleagues today have pointed out, for children's protection of over five billion dinars, for the Moravia Corridor, which I particularly care about, is the means that are foreseen and is further increased by this budget rebalance. But when we talk about building highways, we have to notice that every new highway brings new employment, that it also collects some new revenues and makes the rest of the income. Since I know there are a lot of my colleagues behind me who would say a positive word, and this budget rebalance deserves a positive word, unfortunately, we talked a little bit about those two draft laws that are also on the agenda, I would end up here. Anyway, in the voting day, I'll vote for the rebalancing proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61447	Thank you. A colleague of mine, Mirjana Dragaš, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61448	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers and gentlemen of Parliament, the government of this ruling coalition has been constantly on the test of success and endurance in fighting for Serbia as an economy and as a state to recover and put it on the path of development and success. Since 2015, especially since 2015, the efforts and measures that have been applied in this direction have been increasing and improving every year. Incessantly, Serbia is on an upcoming economic path, and therefore trust and reputation have been raised among foreign investors, employment is increasing and earning profit growth. He's not yet at what level we'd like and how this people deserve it, because he's working and professional, but what we've come from is important what we've come from. Two strategic goals important to the state in this time of at least five years have been achieved. First, economic stability and economic strengthening have been achieved. The stability of the country and all its economic flows has returned, the reputation and trust of foreign investors and international diplomatic reputation has been fundamentally changed. From the so-called I'm going to say under the pretext of a defeated and humiliated country, which only had to listen to foreign demands and achieve other people's political will and interests, we went back to the throne of world diplomacy. We've been strengthened, we've regained confidence, and now we're already struggling openly for our interests. Our diplomacy strengthens and restores old friendships, establishing new friendships and spreading the truth about historical events in this area and in the Serbian people. With its reach, Serbia is on the best track to develop and achieve as the country with the most significant positive influence in the Balkans. These long-term strategic objectives are achieved through a series of concrete internal measures and objectives, such as: improving the economic environment, ensuring high levels of economic growth, reducing unemployment, raising living standards. With successful economic policy and sound fiscal consolidation measures carried out by this government on a continuous basis, especially in the past and this year, they created a space for this positive budget rebalance. It is not often that budget rebalancing is done before the end of the year in order to increase investment and social conditions of life, based on concrete and real success in work. It's important, and it's very important to increase the profits made by this. What's this supposed to mean? These measures raise the standard of living, stimulate private consumption, and all this, however, affects better economic development, which is also the goal of this government. In this period, the largest support for economic growth has been given. In this time, Serbia has attracted more foreign investment than the entire Balkans region. Her credit rating has been increased, which is very important. This trend must continue, and this is the government's crucial task in this and next period, because it only provides greater employment and greater social security. What can't stay here? It must not remain to attract new foreign investors only when they are at the level of donations per job, they must not remain at a low level, because work must have its own price, not its undervalue, cannot be easily lost, there must be no economic and social uncertainty, there must be no hard living in poverty, there must be an extended working century. When all of this exists, people, especially young people, are increasingly determined to leave the country looking for a better life. For example, I'll just mention something we all know. In 2020, Germany's plan is to strongly liberalise conditions for the employment of foreign workers. This warns us of an improved market that will attract all those who are professional, educated and able to create high capital values. This will be further opened by our entry into the EU, as has been created and done in other countries that have joined the EU before us. And more than that, these days, for example, we have witnessed the openness of the labour market, for example Slovenia, which in collaboration with the Serbian labour market in this area has opened a Employment Fair that offers 4,500 direct jobs in Slovenia, for example, for drivers, divers, electricians, workers in catering, tourism, healthcare, construction, etc. It is easy for a 500-euro Serbia-based nurse to go for a 1,000-euro net. Therefore, our efforts with this budget rebalancing are a significant step, but exactly what I think is important, it is a continuation of this kind of struggle that in Serbia is precisely the measure of good profit that ensures a satisfied life in Serbia must be achieved. All those who leave say, otherwise, they go for a better life, better working conditions and a better profit. We need such economic development so that people do not want to leave Serbia or if they go back again. In addition to a significant reduction in the unemployment rate and growth of the total number of employees, it is important to improve employment in the labour market.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61449	You're just bringing the end, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61450	Just a second. The position of sensitive categories, especially young people and women, has been improved, and this is also a major success. I want this opportunity to say that support for pensioners is significant. More important than this one-time measure is the introduction into its system, and most of all, in this budget rebalancing is a significant investment, because with open highways and corridors in Serbia, Serbia is an open country. It is no longer Serbia from the last century, and that is, the opening of such investment works, the best indication of the development of stability and proper work.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61451	Thank you. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61452	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, here we are today discussing budget rebalancing for this year. A little out of the ordinary, since you say the budget is in surplus, that you have extra money, that you're doing rebalancing a month and a half before the budget is adopted for next year. But we understand what the motive is and what it is, in fact, about this rebalance being looked at, above all, through the Budgetary System Act. It's about you actually bringing this budget to pre-election purposes. This is the pre-election budget, because the consequences of what is foreseen in this budget, i.e., first of all, of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Budgetary System, is that. We, Mr. Mali, have, when the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act has been passed, claimed to you that it is inadmissible for you as the Government of the Republic of Serbia to assume this responsibility and the obligation to determine an increase in pensions and that this must be, that the way pensions are increased, that is, must be regulated by law. You didn't even want to hear about our remarks, and the consequence of that is that there is no increase in pensions this year. The fact that you're going to give 5,000 dinars to pensioners, yet, just amazing, how you insult these people, especially hundreds of thousands with small pensions when you talk about what they're going to do, I don't know, heat, I don't know the glory, I don't know what they're going to do for 5,000 dinars. God, it's like 5,000 euros. So, attitude of the SRS, and we'll repeat it to you and now... Yes, you mentioned, first of all, you mentioned today that pensions will be coordinated according to the Swiss model. I don't know if I missed anything, I don't know when the laws were changed or when it was adopted. You've been saying all day, Minister Mali, that since January 1st, a Swiss model will apply. How do you know, do you see these boycotts of yours, they're not in the O.R.? Maybe they won't want to vote for the amendments to the laws you're planning. Then I look at it, some newspapers wrote, says – in the Assembly cut, the Swiss way, the Swiss model of the pension account. It's just amazing. So, the people need to know, there's no such thing as this moment, today, there's no model how pensions are coordinated. The model in the state of Serbia does not exist, whether it will exist or not. As the average salary in Serbia is not 500 euros, whether it will be, we will see. We're talking about the condition that is today. The situation today is nowhere near what you say. It's all nice that you're trying to represent from what's good, the movement of someone has, not that there isn't. Building roads is a good thing, of course it is. But I was when you spoke to Mr. Mali, at one point when you finished one of the discussions with one of the MPs, I asked you from here -- come on now, when you're going to have a little bit of a situation in Serbia. You know, you can say whatever you want and the MPs of the majority, but you can't convince 105,000 pensioners whose pension is about ten thousand dinars that you did them any good. You're not. That 5,000 dinars won't save them either. Even if you chose those 5,000 dinars, imagine you who are absurd, the lowest pension in Serbia is the one that is not agricultural, 14,000 dinars, the highest 132,000 dinars. You give 5,000 dinars to help one with 132 and this one with 14,000 dinars. It's really mocking. Says one colleague that it's a populist story and it's completely unrealistic and it wouldn't have been good if they'd gotten a percentage increase in pensions, because then the one with the smallest pension would have gotten 1,500 dinars, and the one with the largest 10,000, 12,000 dinars. That's what someone says today that when we adopt the budget for next year they're going to say the opposite, because you say, if you believe it, that's exactly how you're going to increase pensions for next year. If you sincerely want to help this people and show that Serbia has some of that money, then make a complete reconstruction of the pension system. Mr. Minister, the lowest pension and the lowest salary cannot be less than 37,000 dinars. Your statistics said it was a minimum consumer basket price. How can someone live, some family if they don't have money for that minimum consumer basket price? Last year, you were talking about how you reached a 27,000-dollar magic figure, because for the past year, or this year, the minimum profit was 27,022 dinars, and this year you say again, you skipped the magic figure of 30,000 because now the minimum is going to be 30,022 dinars. I don't know what it's like to skip the groin, what kind of magic numbers it is. So there's this magic figure that has to be worth 37,000 dinars as minimal consumer basket. No pension in Serbia must be less than 37,000 dinars, as anyone with a smaller pension cannot survive. The pensioners are on the beggar stick. Mr. Sinisha Mali, the lowest pension is seven and a half times the highest. That's terrible. That's terrible, raise the lowest pensions. Make the lowest pension 37,000 dinars. All other pensions need to get a smaller percentage so eventually the biggest pension from the lowest is maybe three times, no more than that. Not what I have today, which is really scary. The average pension is 23.335 dinars. The average pension is also calculated on the basis of this of 132,000 dinars, Mr. Minister. So, these stories about these averages as you say the average salary will be 500 euros, but I say, when it does, jump first and say hop. But when it is and if it is that 500 euros, who's got that profit. Half a million people in Serbia work for a minimum. The average salary is calculated on the basis of various parameters, including, for example, the profit of public executioners, who earn more than 100,000 euros per month. And their salary goes to this average. I've talked to the really great economists these days, and I admit, but I don't want to abuse their name here, this is what Mr. Ministers told me – tell Minister Sinisha Malo, let us get all the data we're looking for, not that we're given on a spoon and what the state wants to give, let them give us all the data, so we'll use a real scientific methodology to calculate the average salary and the average pension, and the percentage of unemployment. They say, believe me, a surprise would be incredible, because real data, if based on real data, this calculated wouldn't be anywhere near what the state is trying to present to us. When it comes to pay increases in the public sector, these salaries have already been increased twice, you have never once explained to us which criteria have defined you as increasing five, one seven, one nine, one 15%. You've done it twice already, it's about time, or you come out with concrete indicators, because, here, we've suggested that everyone be 10% paid. Then we thought about where we didn't write 12% of how much you increased your toll. The same criteria you had to determine to increase your toll by 12% do the same thing to increase your salary. So why did we say this was pre-election rebalancing? You again in the Bill on the Budgetary System, in amendments and additions, Mr. Minister, did not provide for a ban on public sector employment to be lifted. What does that mean in real life? So, Serbia continues to function for a certain time. So, the election campaign will employ everyone who works for a certain period of time with a promise that as soon as the elections pass, they will be employed indefinitely, and everyone, as in the previous elections, will have to bring a pictured ballot and a number of additional ballots and how much they are ordered to bring. So believe me, there's nothing to brag about, not through this rebalancing, not in general through all of it. When I say this, I mean, first of all, the everyday lives of the people, the people of Serbia. We're not gonna say you don't build roads. You build, we welcome, but the people live better, the ministers, they don't live, they collect bread, they collect pig meat, they collect June meat, it's a little bit of electricity, it's fuel, it's got cigarettes, it's got alcoholic beverages. Anything is more expensive, believe me, and this as much as you've predicted an increase, it's hardly going to be able to change something in the consumption structure, because about everything that's been bought for this money so far without this increase, it's the same thing, and maybe a little more will be bought when that increase comes to order because it's really not a great situation or great. In Serbia, living very badly in a material sense is very bad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61453	Thank you. The word has a folk ambassador, Tanja Tomaševic Damjanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61454	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Mr. Ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia is intended to spend by the end of the year all the surplus funds achieved in the budget during 2019. In the state register and at the end of August, we had a surplus of 46.4 billion dinars more than planned. We have a budget surplus for the third year in a row, and we haven't had a rebalance in a year. This is now so-called. A positive budget rebalance so that citizens can be paid an increase in wages. The biggest increase in earnings expects health workers, nurses' salaries will be 15% higher, doctors 10%, 10% increase in their senses in science and culture sectors, 9% will be employed in education, judges and prosecutors, as well as employees in courts and prosecutors, social protection institutions and members of security services, security forces. Eight percent increase will be given to state administration employees. With this budget rebalance, the government and the government want something to bring back to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. This one seems to be how different this government and this government is and how responsible they are to the budget. Of course, all of this would not be possible without the government's discipline and without certainly better results from the economy, thus also income for the Republic of Serbia's budget, as a result of the difficult fiscal consolidation measures launched in 2014 when the Prime Minister was Aleksandar Vukic. The budget rebalance will provide an additional 16.8 billion for infrastructure projects, and the investment of the state in infrastructure brings an increasing number of investors into our country, which means more jobs for our citizens. Economic growth associated with a favourable investment environment, newly opened and expanded production capacities and active employment and self-employment policy measures have affected the labour market positively, which has been recording a decrease in unemployment rates since 2014. This rebalancing also provided funds to address the problems of citizens in charge of the Swiss francs, as well as additional funds for the collection of damages to natural disasters for the restoration of public purposes facilities. This rebalancing shows that the government has managed the interests of citizens in its making, taking public interest into account that fiscal stability is not threatened in any way. Today, wages and pensions differ from some previous period, the DS rule period, increase on sound grounds, and public debt does not increase. It shows the success of a single government, but representatives of the former regime are bothered by it. It bothers them with everything good for Serbia. To a Serbian advanced stranger, President of the Republic of Serbia Aleksandr Vukic and this government, citizens are always in the first place and in the focus of all the activities being carried out. We are passing these laws for the sake of the benefit of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the SNS parliamentary group will support them in a day of voting with satisfaction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61455	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61456	Mr. Minister, when the budget was adopted for this current year 2019, we told you that you adopted the budget with the compromising individual ministers in the government who were supposed to fly like a suitcase, and here we welcome the budget rebalancing with those same ministers who are proudly spending the money of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The Serbian Radical Party, through a series of press conferences for our public appearances, particularly from the Parliament's speaker, pointed out that the money for projects they advocate, above all Zorana Mihajlovic and other ministers in the government, are the money of Serbian citizens who are severely tormented, many of whom are singled out through tax payments and all that goes into the state register. And now you've come here today with this budget rebalance to try to spread optimism among the citizens of Serbia, especially with pensioners with this one-time aid of 5,000 dinars and the growth of employees' salaries in certain sectors. To be an optimist in Serbia, he must be aware of what his income is, and what the prices and what he can do with his salary. A colleague said earlier that the consumer basket is 37,000 dinars, and according to that minimumer you plan to increase should be that big, but don't forget, it's the average consumer basket. In Novi Sad, for example, there are almost 40,000 dinars in Mr Mircic, and in Belgrade there are over 40,000 thousand in many other cities. Then you want to blur the eyes of Serbian citizens with fantastic results that you've achieved making a parallel to what these yellow thieves have done before you. Mr. Mali, when you are ahead of those who are following you, which is the IMF above all, other financial institutions said that over the next five years, GDP in Serbia will grow from 2019 to 2023, and will continuously record high growth rates and will even increase overall by 21.7%. It really sounds amazing in a situation where you have such a strong import lobby, huge investments, over three billion euros so far for foreign companies that are profitable in the sense that they produce products that don't require high-tech technology, and Serbia, imagine that paradox adopts a month ago the Law on Scientific Research on patents on high-tech development, and you bring into Serbia companies that can also be picked up quickly and leave, which require a low-skilled workforce that is paying minimally and miserablely for the same job paid abroad in these companies where their headquarters is located. That's one aspect. The second aspect is that, since Mr. Mali, you and Aleksandar Vukic and other ministers from the government and the prime minister asked why domestic investors did not want so much, i.e. entrepreneurs and company owners to invest in Serbia? Their investment in GDP is up to 7% to 8%, and in Serbia with such a capital structure entrepreneurs and those with capital should invest 18% at this time. They have fear. It's easy for you. You promise these strangers, here's your subsidy. The average is six thousand euros for each job and up to ten thousand. Other people, as you have made it easier for the Fiat, over a billion and 500m euros indefinitely, and domestic entrepreneurs and businessmen must think well. They have a great burden on their shoulders because they know unemployment isn't what you're showing it. A colleague, Mircic said, applied for one day as an employee, and after what happened to those people, but it's another empirical survey. More than 300,000 at least Serbian citizens are not on the National Employment Service record. These people don't exist for you. They don't have a job. What aren't they? I come from a town where there are thousands of such people, who have lost their jobs in the robbery of Dinkic, Vlahovic, mobster Djindjic and others in the privatisation. They no longer have the will to apply to the Bureau of Labour, as they say. He says, "What am I doing there?" Who's gonna call me at that age for any job? My factory's ruined. Those who have come choose younger ones to do it for a certain period of time in three shifts, and for very small wages. Please don't, then, that in such a way something which is an indication that it's different, and you've made a move relative to these predecessors to display as a mirage and to run honey and milk and that it's something ideal. Since it's limited time for this debate, and we're going to have amendments, besides why he's worried about our locals, that's what I'm calling them, industrialists, is another aspect. They see Serbia as a country where fundamental social uncertainty is, and that's true. You can't say for these people who work in these companies foreign, who got here exceptional subsidies that they're safe and stable. Here I am, in the building where I live, I have married couples, and they have two and three children. One family is such that two of them work in Milanovic, now "Simens", his. People can't take credit, they can't be in debt. Those who work in the Fiat don't come to their senses, because they can't buy an apartment or a car or anything more secure for their children. They don't know when they're going to get fired, because they already have the experience of those who were fired two years ago, because they said it was an extra workforce. The structural changes in the budget were necessary, Mr. Mali, for everything we point to and not just you, but since 2016, here in Parliament that it is unnecessary to finance, reroute where the most necessary givings are. It's normal for you to come here now that this surplus is created. You told your colleague Mircic today – yes, that's all from taxes, the VAT has been increased. Don't talk because there are concession taxes, for Nikola Tesla Airport and other one-time fees you've collected in the budget, which are now in this way... (President: Bringing the end. Here I am, finishing up, colleague Arsic. In the end, we will have amendments, and these other financial laws, where we will be able to talk about it in an argument. So the people in Serbia don't live well. Many, many years should pass, and above all, to raise our domestic industrial sector, agriculture, much greater investment in tourism, in all that can be returned to the invested one dinar three times to make the people have better wages and better life.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61457	The word is from the MP of the people Studenka Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61458	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected ministers, respected citizens of Serbia, today's budget rebalancing is clear and unequivocal evidence of our country's growth and development. This is the first rebalancing we're doing because of surpluses, or extra money in the budget. Excess money has 46.6 billion dinars. This fiscal relaxation is exactly what we've been working for a few years. To be clear, we do not disturb or question financial stability by spending this extra money. Finance remains stable, and we invest extra money in public and investment spending, which practically means we increase profits in the public sector from 8% to 15%, we will pay pensioners at 5,000 help, we will help in charge of Swiss francs, we will build the Pojate road – Preljina and what is very important for Serbia which, I must point out, is military neutral, so we are investing in our military and our police. You know, for some generations among which my generation is, this is a historic success. This country has been in crisis for at least 40 years and we have spent almost our entire lives in an economically ruined Serbia and we have the right to know as citizens of this country what the economic stability of the country we live in means. Here comes the day. Although according to the Fiscal Council, this surplus money could have been more productively spent, they consider it to be invested in something that would later be returned to the state, instead of making a profit increase, I think it is precisely the best possible way to distribute it, as it must be a small break, so to speak, in this fight in which all Serbian citizens participate. Serbia's recovery as citizens needs to be felt through an increase in our own budgets. The state of Serbia records an increase in public revenues, without increasing tax obligations, records a rapid decrease in public debt, economic growth, halved unemployment that has never been lower and is 10% and records stable inflation. Let us not forget the permanent inflow of foreign, direct investments, which put Serbia first in Europe. This country is opening up. It created conditions and opportunities for quality business, for employment. The most improved situation in the youth population and women is the most sensitive category in employment. The biggest exports are in the IT sector. It records an increase of as much as 30%, and these are young people who are detained in Serbia and live and work from their own knowledge in their own country. Also growing and the volume of foreign trade. Someone will say increased imports, but will not say that machines and equipment are imported, which are directly due to new investments and that these same companies will increase exports in the coming period. They will also not tell you that cars and energies are imported, which is nothing more than an increase in the standard of living of our citizens. Another negative contribution to the movement of the total industry has been given by the food industry due to the prohibition measures of Pristina, but it is therefore recovering the processing activity, and it is certain that agricultural production will reach an extremely high level of generated gross added value, although due to weather disasters a mild negative impact was expected. A series of economic measures taken by this government will only yield results. In time, I won't be able to mention them all, but I think the best thing that Alexander Vukic managed to solve with his policy is the past loans. Expensive loans that the irresponsible authorities had replaced with five times cheaper loans, which means 7.25 per cent interest, replaced by a 1.61 per cent interest, and this is the historic minimum that Serbia owes. Then, tax redundancy creates a favourable economic environment for certain changes in profit tax and through a unique legal arrangement of these revenues. Also, by eliminating unemployment contributions to the employer's burden, the tax burden of the net salary is reduced to 63% to 62%, a total savings for the economy by around 11.9 billion dinars. Then, the reduction of parafiscal burdens by abolishing individual fees, the changed method of calculating depreciation, and there are also stimulating measures for innovative activities that are very desirable as a new source of growth. All of this will boost economic growth, affect one part the grey economy, and in particular contribute to strengthening the private sector. As the end users of all these benefits, Serbian citizens whose living standards will grow year after year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61459	Thank you. The word is by MP Sonja Vlahovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61460	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues, today we are discussing budget rebalancing. We know the hardest measures are behind us. With responsible economic policy and fiscal consolidation measures, we have come to an increase in pensions and salaries, the public debt has been reduced. We don't talk about inflation anymore, it's not a topic because it's 1.5% now. The dinar is stronger and instead of deficits and debts, we are thinking about improving the lives of our citizens. We won't forget what it was like. It's been a tough trip since 2013. We need to know where we are now and where we'll be. Today we're discussing revenues, surpluses, how to spend. We have a plan and we will spend money with the citizens of Serbia. The budget rebalance envisions spending by the end of the year all the surplus funds achieved in the budget during 2019. With rebalancing, we plan to invest the highest part of the money, of course, in capital investments. We'll also give pensioners that one-time aid of 5,000 dinars, we'll pay back the loans, help our citizens, who have about 18,000, who have raised loans in Swiss francs. We'll invest in the military and the police and, as I said, invest in road infrastructure. The most important thing is to specify the Pojate-Preljina highway, the construction of that highway. Of course, we're going to raise the salary on average from 8% to 15%. Today, when we raise standards, as I said, we want citizens to live better and better. Today, as we speak and discuss, I am proud to be a member of the SNS. Dear Ministers, you, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and our own President, Alexander Vukic, were criticised. It's just, these days, we've heard discussions about budget rebalancing itself, about that, about criticism, but you've answered them, and you'll always respond to success and results. There is one people's proverb: everything will be forgiven, but success will not. In voting day, of course, I'll vote for all the bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61461	Thank you. The word has been made by Parliamentarian Olivera Ognjanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61462	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers with co-workers, the budget rebalancing is projected to spend by the end of the year the surplus funds achieved in the 46.6 billion dinar budget during 2019. Yes, we now have a surplus in the budget for the third year in a row, while only a few years ago we were on the verge of failure, which is why we were forced to implement the heavy austerity measures. However, responsible fiscal policy management in the previous period resulted in the creation of a fiscal space used to increase wages, finance infrastructure and capital projects. In order to provide missing funds for certain categories of expenditure, additional funding for staff expenditure is provided for, starting with a salary for November, payment of fees under the Law on financial support for families with children, as well as a reduction in expenditures and expenditures estimated not to be implemented in the planned amount by the end of the year. Part of the funds for the conversion of part of the debt to residents for residential loans taken in Swiss francs have also been increased. Also, the amount of expenditure on payment of interest on domestic loans and on active guarantees has been increased. The ministry of construction, transport and infrastructure - increased funds for the construction of the point infrastructure and for the implementation of the Obrenovac-Ljig highway construction project. For the construction of the Pojate-Preljina highway and Belgrade-Sarajevo highway, intensively invests in road and rail infrastructure, to attract new investors, and to provide better working conditions for existing investors. The Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development -- an increased amount of money for scientific and research activities, while the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Boring and Social Affairs has provided additional funds to pay compensation under the Law on Financial Support for Families with Children. Serbia today has financial and fiscal stability because it takes care of each dinar. Investments are increasing and the business environment is improving. The change in economic policy has resulted in a reduction in public debt that we are very proud of. In 2014, we had a public debt greater than 70% of GDP, while at the end of July this year it was 51.9% and it was a great success. We meet our obligations in time and do not want to leave expensive loans and enormous debt to future generations. That is why we can now significantly increase wages and pensions and plan public investment. Thanks to public finance reforms, Serbia's face has changed, its reputation in the world has changed, credit rating, a place on the World Bank's Duing Business List. Unemployment in Serbia now stands at 10.3%, while in 2013 it was more than 25%. Over 150 new factories have been opened and are heading towards creating a better business environment to attract new foreign investments and provide more jobs. Measures related to the employment of unemployed persons have also been proposed with the exemption of 70 % of the income tax for PIO in 2020 for these companies. President Vucic presented an investment plan to single out more than 12 billion euros in municipal, traffic, energy, digital infrastructure, in promoting birth, in building apartments for young people, in tourism. Raising the country's economic strength, stability and strengthening its domestic currency are the result of President Vukic and government's strong moves to save Serbia and the situation it was in, and it was facing bankruptcy. The day-to-night push, dedicated work, discipline and savings have led to the turn and recovery of the Serbian economy, and by setting a stable monetary base, growth and development are possible. We have proven that we can save the country from destruction. It is up to us to maintain hard-earned financial stability and to find new sources of growth in the entire economy. I believe in the vision that President Vukic has had because she has so far given extraordinary results and I see that this is the only time that we can ensure a better standard of living for our citizens in a healthy way. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61463	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Vera Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61464	The respected chairman, Arsic, co-worker of Mlaga, my fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, remains on the path of growth in 2019, which began in early 2015. The second quarter of the current year was the 18th consecutive quarter in which economic activity recorded real growth amongst the annual growth. The cumulative increase in GDP during this period was over 13%. Responsible fiscal policy management in the previous period resulted in the creation of a fiscal space used to increase wages, finance infrastructure capital projects, as well as the provision of missing funds in certain categories of expenditure. This rebalance provides for a reduction in expenditures and expenditures estimated not to be implemented in the planned amount by the end of the year, as well as the provision of additional appropriations for staff expenditure for the purpose of increasing the base, starting with a salary for November, travel infrastructure construction expenditure, payment of compensation in accordance with the Financial Support Act for the family with children and other expenditures. The most significant changes have been made when it comes to courts and prosecutors because more money has been allocated to them for regular work. Part of the funds for the conversion of part of the debt of citizens for residential loans taken in Swiss francs have also been increased under the Law on the Conversion of Housing Loans indexed in Swiss francs. The Ministry of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure - increased funds for the construction of road infrastructure and for the implementation of the road construction project E763, Obrenovac-Ljig, for the construction of the highway E761, the Pojate-Preljina section. The Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development has increased the amount of money it will be able to give for scientific and research activities, while the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs has provided additional funds to pay compensation under the Law on Financial Support for the Family with Children. A positive budget rebalance has affected the increase in public sector wages already in November and not in early 2020. This fits all the drawn criteria of the IMF. When you say "rebalance", with us it has a negative connotation because the rebalance in the past has always been a way for the state deficit of the budget that it has made for consumption beyond measure and plan, this is the first positive rebalancing in Serbia because we have increased revenues that are greater than expected. With budget rebalancing, the government wants us to distribute these increased revenues and to somehow return citizens through the increase in salaries to support pensioners in line with priorities, for a better standard of living and through additional investment in infrastructure. At the end of August, we had a surplus of 46.4 billion dinars, which is 60 billion better than expected. In July of this year, the rate of economic growth was 4.4, the unemployment rate at the end of the second quarter of this year was 10.3 and more than halved compared to 2013 when it was 25.9%. Also, as a result of low inflationary pressures, inflation has been at a low level since the beginning of the year, with only 2.2% for the January-July period. I'll remind you that inflation in 2011, so not 15 and 20 years ago, but only seven years ago, was 11%. Also last year, we attracted 3.5 billion euros of foreign direct investment, which is more than all countries in the region combined. When it comes to public debt, it is constantly falling and at the end of August was 51.9 GDP. I'll also remind you in this case that only a few years ago, public debt amounted to over 70% of GDP, and now thanks to good fiscal results, it's about 50%. Also, the cost of borrowing, the costs of our public debt are lower. The average weighted interest rate on the total debt portfolio is 3.4% today. In 2016, it was 4.5. It speaks enough of how we have regained confidence in our country and only for a few years how long the fiscal consolidation process lasted. Foreign direct investment reached 2.3 billion euros in the first seven months of this year, even 43% more than in the same period last year. Directly from the budget, 120m euros will be additionally allocated to the Moravski Corridor thanks to increased budget revenues that exceeded the plan by 60 billion dinars. Prime Minister Ana Brnabic, at a press conference held on 16 September 2019, dedicated to Serbia's first positive budget rebalancing, specified that part of the larger budget revenues of 16.8 billion dinars would be directed to the Moravski Corridor infrastructure facilities. The issue of wages and pensions, I think, is of great importance to all of us at this point that this very surplus that we have already had for the fourth year is shared with citizens of Serbia, i.e. the results that the Ministry of Finance and which the Government of Serbia in co-operation with the president of the country has carried out after the difficult economic reforms, and the results we now consider only necessary and we support that it really needs to be shared with citizens. I am also taking this opportunity to commend your work, Mr. Mali, in particular, as well as the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, whose product is all I just cited. All that is done today, I must stress it would not be possible without the difficult fiscal consolidation measures launched in 2014 when the prime minister was Alexander Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61465	Thank you. The word has a National MP Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61466	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mr. Ministers with Associates, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, today we are talking about budget rebalancing for 2019 because the situation in the Treasury is such that there is money. There's a surplus in the budget. So, the rebalancing is done because of the extra income. In the first eight months of 2019, the surplus is 46.6 billion dinars so that this positive budget rebalancing will enable us to increase wages and pensions, if we want to raise the quality of life and standard of our citizens' lives, we also want to invest in our country's infrastructure, in capital investments, in roads, railways, etc. All of this today we all know this well wouldn't be possible if the president of the state, Mr. Alexander Vukic, hadn't started heavy and unpopular fiscal consolidation measures. He began a very serious and courageous recovery process of the Serbian state that no one had done before, as predecessors from the yellow company were only busy with themselves and their own interests and making personal profits on the back of the people. A positive budget rebalancing is the result of the difficult measures I have said and implemented by the president of the state of Aleksandar Vukic and the government to get the country out of the abyss and bankruptcy. Of course, we'll keep it that way and continue at a stronger pace. Our public finances today are stable and this budget rebalance is precisely the result of all this. I'll just say a few information on budget rebalancing for 2019 for the distribution of the Ministry of Health. The budget of the Ministry of Health for 2019 was 19,682,176,000 dinars, and after rebalancing, it was 18,842,036,000 dinars and was reduced by 840,140,000 dinars, which means that it is a savings in this amount. In the course of the budget rebalancing, redistribution was made in the light of the available appraisal. Enhancing under Programme 1801 was carried out, which means editing and supervision in the field of health care, then under Programme 1803, the development of quality and availability of healthcare for the following programme activities. The health care of persons in support of prison sentences and the provision of emergency medical assistance to persons unknown to residence and other persons who do not otherwise exercise this right in the amount of 50 million dinars, so that now it is 230 million dinars, before the rebalancing, was 180 million dinars. Then the enforcement of mandatory psychiatric treatment and storage measures at a health facility, mandatory treatment of alcoholics and drug addicts of 80 million dinars, so that they now amounted to 280 million dinars, before the rebalancing, amounted to 200 million dinars. Under the 1808 Programme, support for the exercise of compulsory health insurance rights increased software activity, the health care of people with rare diseases of 150 million dinars, which now amounted to 250,000, before the rebalance amounted to two billion dinars. These positions have been increased to ensure greater availability of healthcare to the categories of persons for whom treatment under the Health Protection Act is provided in the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Also, in order to achieve savings and rational spending of budget funds, certain reductions in individual positions have been made, I will mention only one of them, for example. IPA 2013 Progress pre-rebalanced at 162,452,428 dinars was reduced by 48,381,000 dinars, which now amounts to 114,071.428 dinars, and it is the construction of a hospital in Vranje, which has been completed, with all obligations completed. Finally, since 1 January 2019, the proposed law envisions higher salaries in healthcare, which is 15% for mid-medical staff, nurses and medical technicians, 10% for doctors and associates and 8% for non-medical staff in healthcare. In this way, we also want our healthcare professionals to materially strengthen, of course, everything in line with the real possibilities of the state, that is, without additional borrowing and endangering our country's fiscal system. In voting day, the SNS will support these bill proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61467	Thank you. The word is Tiana Davidovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61468	Thank you. Dear Ministers with Co-operation, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the budget rebalance is scheduled to spend by the end of the year the surplus funds achieved in the budget of 46.6 billion dinars. Thanks to the government of Serbia's responsible work, this rebalancing will allow for an increase in public sector wages from 1 November on average of 9.6%. Then, we have a one-time aid payment for pensioners, which was planned around December 1st, worth 5,000 dinars, and since 1 January 2020, an increase in pensions of about 5% is also planned. The funds have also been provided for the conversion of the share of debt of citizens for housing loans taken in Swiss francs. Also, part of the funds is planned to build road infrastructure, specifically for the implementation of the E-763 Obrenovac-Ljig highway project, the E-761 section of Pojate-Preljina and the Belgrade-Sarajevo highway. Part of the funds has also been allocated to the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development, specifically for scientific and research activities, as well as to the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs for the payment of compensation under the Law on Financial Support for the Family with Children. As we can see, with this rebalancing, the government wants to distribute the revenue achieved by returning some of the funds to citizens through increased wages and support for pensioners, but also through additional investment in infrastructure, to help improve the standard of living for our citizens. In the voting day, the SNS parliamentary group will support the proposed laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61469	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? The word has the People's MP Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61470	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Chairman, honourable ministers, fellow MPs, we are at the end of today's debate in the principle of budget rebalancing for 2019. Mr. Minister, MPs who have now had their presentations have indeed tried to decially express in numbers all the results of the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of Finance, the president of the state. What is important is that Serbian citizens must know that we now have money that we have not been able to redistribute in this way. What we are now redistributing is that these good results that have ultimately shown that not all of the economic reforms that we have had through legal solutions and sublegal acts and all that fiscal consolidation has brought and all those sufferings that the citizens of Serbia have had through this whole process and transitions from one minus economic growth to plus economic growth, we come to this day to say that today we have reason to say that we really have the trust of all the relevant entities in society, who have given their opinion on how this rebalancing should look, or when you have a surplus, when you have a surplus in the budget, how to distribute it, that we really need to distribute it in a fairer way - and give citizens certain increases, and state officials who have not had a surplus to date, but most, of course, in investments. We need to solve problems from the past for which we do not have some responsibility, but we believe that we should be politically responsible for helping citizens to make all their bad decisions and bad political decisions by 2012, we need to help and solve it together. These are loans in Swiss, these are court rulings and fees that, when you look at, the funds, represent large figures. So if we're talking about nine billion dinars almost when it comes to Swiss francs, when we're talking about seven and a half billion dinars when it comes to judgments, then it's huge resources that could have been really focused on other needs, when it comes to social categories, not only to raise a guy, pay 9%, they could've been bigger, but, how can I tell you, I think the SNS will stay in history recorded that she's faced with problems and didn't hide it from its citizens. It may bother some of us to talk about it here all the time, but we took that responsibility and great courage when they didn't even exist in this House and didn't have their MPs. Maybe if they'd been here then and had been trusted by the citizens, maybe they would have helped us do it faster, harder and better, but that's not the case. We are simply doing it out of too much responsibility to the citizens and therefore we are trying to ensure that we do not want to gamble at any moment. So we're going to ask them at any moment -- what should we do with the funds from Serbia's budget and how it should look like a new investment plan and what needs to be done concretely so that we really have a better Serbia and where it would be a country where really young people will want to stay and won't want to leave. The departure of young and medical sisters and doctors and scientists is exclusively guided by the economic parameters of the EU member state with its standard and salary, because it simply attracts, not only from Serbia, but from all countries of the region, but there is a great fluctuation of personnel within the EU member states themselves. Therefore, this case is not only in Serbia and it is not only the responsibility of the SNS, but we are, I think, the only state that has created a Council of the Government of Serbia in the region to address the problem, so-called. Social migrants, and that's exactly what this is. We are aware of the problems that exist in our country, and not only in our own, but also in the region, and we are working with the EU on this issue, because they are working on these problems of solving young people, that is, when it comes to the fact that the smart world wants someone better tomorrow, wants to share their experience with developed countries in the world, meaning, not only in the EU, but also in the east and west, and they are simply leaving because they have bigger salaries, donations and opportunities to deal with high technologies, because we are now in the fourth industrial revolution. Therefore, what the government is sure to do, which is accompanied by simple and economic and industrial trends and is trying to deal with all the challenges in that way to preserve the interests of all Serbian citizens. This is why we need to support this proposal today because it shows that we treat all segments of society equally. I think that in voter day, the SNS and its MPs will indeed, with great justification, support this proposal for rebalancing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-02-1.u61471	Thank you. I am concluding a joint principled search on the draft laws referred to in points 1 and 2 of the agenda. We'd be done with today's work. We'll continue tomorrow at 10:00.
