ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-20-0.u63862	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the sixth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 97 MPs. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in determining the agenda exists if a majority of the total number of MPs are present at the session. Please insert your identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system to determine the number of MPs present in the hall. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 130 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly within the meaning of Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before the sitting agenda is established, pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 93. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly need to decide on proposals to supplement the proposed agenda. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts regarding the murder and political background of the murder of Zoran Djindjic, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 15 December 2016. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-20-0.u63863	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for three years now, it has been said that on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have proposed that a polling committee be formed to establish facts regarding the murder of Zoran Djindjic and which would firstly be a political background. It is actually the only real way for citizens of Serbia, even after many years, to really know what preceded the murder of Zoran Djindjic, but also what is most important that this policy has led to. You have also accused the SRS of being fierce opponents of the Dossovo regime, for saying that Serbia was a mob state at the time, because members of some criminal clans were involved in bringing the Dossov regime to power, which, in addition, broke into the Stari Grad police station and later committed murder with these weapons throughout Serbia. It is something that no regime has ever wanted to resolve, and I could understand that those who were directly connected to the Zemun clan, those who brought Shiptar and Kum to power, that they were not interested in such a thing, however, we expected that this would call a new regime, although with many old frames they would be more interested in lighting up the historical role of Zoran Djindjic and the ways and reasons in which he was killed. You know very well that the people of the closest environment of Zoran Djindjic were the ones who may have profited most from his murder and you also know that many of those who had never agreed with him for life, who spoke of him all the worst, even sometimes speaking much worse than we did from the SRS, but they are also today ready to represent themselves for some of his great friends, to talk about how they share his vision, even though he didn't really have any vision. We want to put an end to at least one affair that has shaken Serbian society during these past decades, by forming this polling committee, at last in one Constitution and law.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-20-0.u63864	Thank you, Mr. Sarovic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote. (Vojislav Seselj: Wait, we didn't vote. ) (Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: It has not been a second. ) For voted ten, against – no one,... . (Vojislav Seselj: Repeat the vote. You got it. We vote again. I conclude the vote: for—13, against—no one, the abstentioned, has a total of 156 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the committee of inquiry to determine the facts and circumstances concerning the pressures on the state authorities and violations of the law during the elections for MPs in the National Assembly held in 2016, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-20-0.u63865	Ladies and gentlemen, this is another proposal that was tabled years ago and I keep repeating, at the beginning of each session, that is, when the time comes for changes and additions to the proposed agenda. This is another proof of how unreasonable you are and how unreasonable your regime was in the previous period, how much you reject all the opposition's proposals just because they come from the opposition and how much worse you are prepared for the consequences, because things don't work properly and at the right time. If the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia had formed a survey committee and explored how this put pressure on all of you who are making up the ruling coalition, so that two electoral lists that have not crossed the electoral censorship into the National Assembly, you today wouldn't have to embarrass Serbia and that, under the patronage of foreigners from the West who certainly don't think well, discuss some electoral conditions, what laws should be like, when elections should be held, whether an electronic media supervisory committee should be formed, which is mandatory under the law and many other things. When we from the SRS talked to the concierge from 2000 to 2000 about the Single Election List, they promised it. Also this minister, Milan Markovic, who was his time minister of state administration and local self-government, the minister in front of the DS, and today is a respected SNS member, still pledged to be a single voter list in his term. You didn't, of course, do, because like you in the DS, it was appropriate to mix, it was appropriate to cheat, it was responsible for not knowing exactly who was voting, who didn't vote and who was listed in the voter list, and therefore you experienced that after a few decades of the introduction of a multiparty system into Serbia, some Tanja Fajon from the EU is coming to turn your ears, to give you lectures, and to line you up around the table, with those who are an open-minded pro-Western betraying opposition. You can end it in a simple way by forming this committee in accordance with the Constitution and the law and resolving all issues.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-20-0.u63866	Thank you, Mr. Sarovic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—16, against—no one, the abstentioned, has any of the 158 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. Here you go, Mrs. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-20-0.u63867	For more than 14 years, the struggle of Serbs from Montenegro has taken place, above all, to exercise the right given to them by our Constitution and the Law on Citizenship, which the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia passed in 2006. I will also remind all of you who have been MPs, that just at the request of the Montenegrin Serbs, the member we are asking for is now further to change and that it is possible for them to give a statement that the state accepts Serbia as its queen, with proper documentation, to exercise the rights to Serbian citizenship. For the past 14 years, however, Serbs in the mafia Montenegrin state under Milo Djukanovic's patronage have experienced terror, have been expelled from work, have been banned from a Cyrillic letter, their children of all those who plead as Serbs already have many problems. We ask that the government of the Republic of Serbia and the competent ministry speed up the process of giving citizenship and Serbs from Montenegro, from Republika Srpska, to Serbs wherever they live, if they meet one of the conditions set out in this Article of the Law. Following the submission of the documentation, this law and the sublegal acts which were later adopted to carry out certain security checks should be adopted. We believe that the six-month deadline is quite enough for all those who have fully correct documentation and are not subject to any other security checks or processing, the Ministry of Serbia's MUP, the ministry's competent units and consular representations to give them the opportunity to gain citizenship within six months of the Republic of Serbia. You have to understand that this is necessary for many families. When they are under the terror of Milo Djukanovic who wants to be assisted by Serbs and, of course, their fear is great, because imagine that they allow this possibility for Serbs from Montenegro, as our law and constitution allow them, to take Serbian citizenship freely. They would thus seal it and confirm that they want an unbreakable relationship with Serbia as their country of origin. All Serbs, it is absolutely certain, which so declares there, would apply and receive Serbian citizenship. This is how the mafia anti-Serbian Montenegrin government tends to do it to prevent them from exercising all those rights, as well as the members of their families they need here in Serbia. As for Serbs from Republika Srpska, they are already facing a number of problems. Why wait a year and a half or two days, if he properly submitted the documentation to obtain Serbian citizenship. For the past five years, 56,000 Serbs from Republika Srpska have applied for citizenship. So, accepting the amendment and supplementing this law, that is to say, this member to arm that deadline for six months maximum, to process documentation and to give them Serbian citizenship, we would do a lot for our countrymen who can't wait for it and who look at Serbia as their queen and ask them to confirm it, not only to exercise their rights, but to belong to their mother and to view the future of their children and all those who want to live in Serbia, work and simply come here whenever they wish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-20-0.u63868	Thank you, Mrs. Jovanovic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 14, against – no one with abstention – has, of 155. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Alexander Seselj, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – the draft law on executive procedure and security, which was submitted by 22 MPs of the Serbian Radical Party group in the National Assembly, on 17 September 2019. Here you go, Mr. Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-20-0.u63869	Ladies and gentlemen, the SRS handed over more than 100,000 signatures from Serbian citizens, signed for a petition requiring the removal of public executioners and along with the new law on executive procedure and security. Did the National Assembly, if not why not, send the proposal to the government and the Ministry of Justice. So for two months now, the ruling majority in the National Assembly has no respect for more than 100,000 Serbian citizens, who have expressed their opinion on a very important issue in Serbia. So there's no reaction. For eight years, executioners have been uninterrupted in Serbia, even with police support, with the support of the Justice Ministry, rich in claims, extracting extra profits from debt-confidential relations, in a number of cases more than three thousand cases such as this in 2017 alone, that they have hijacked properties of the most common housing unit up to 50 square meters. The Serbian Radical Party, a new law, which backed more than 100,000 citizens of Serbia, proposes a return of enforcement to the jurisdiction of the courts. The ministry of justice would be obliged to provide an ambience for it to be conducted under competent courts, not for private persons to have state authority. This is what they use to get maximum wealth without any control, with 217 in Serbia. These are people who in the meantime became one of the richest classes in Serbia, all in another's accident. First of all, it needs to be guaranteed and that's what the SRS proposes, at least 12 squares of living space per member of a family where you can't go into execution. No one's against paying the debts. Everyone should pay what they owe, but the state of Serbia has to prevent an uninterrupted robbery, a robbery supported by the police, a robbery supported by the justice ministry that's been going on here for eight years. The Serbian Progressive Party was against such a solution while in opposition, when it came to power, it accepted in 2015 and earlier this year. Note, then, that you will be guilty of the outcome of the activities of public enforcement in Serbia, which are among the most hated people currently in our country.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-20-0.u63870	Thank you, Mr. Seselj. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 13, against – no one with abstention – has, of 155. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Despotovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. Does MP Zoran Despotovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: for five, against the abstentions, there is no one among the 155 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dubravko Bojic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on psychoactive controlled substances, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. Here you go, Professor Boyich.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-20-0.u63871	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my proposal to supplement the agenda of this session concerns the Law on psychoactive controlled substances, i.e. to destroy them, because both production, transport, use, storage, storage, confiscation or confiscation, and their destruction of those who are not for further use requires their strictly controlled procedure and protocol. As intoxicating drugs or narcotics act primarily on the nervous system, causing a sense of pain reduction, hallucinations, loss of motor functions, and other pathological and functional changes in the central nervous system, so far these new synthetic newcomponents and newly designed drugs are very dangerous and can lead to death, there have been several such cases. The most endangered, however, is the school population, a population without its basic modality, which in search of its own expression, for its authentic identity, unfortunately is often unable to rise up and resist that social pressure, the pressure of the middle or the group to try and thus risk being consummated, and unorthodox. They are very interesting names of these drugs – blackberries, raspberries, strawberries, bladi metrics, whose consumption, which is scientifically and proven, is linked to a large number of suicides. There's a so-called. God's drugs, I don't just know who bless her with this name. As part of the preparation of this topic, I have spoken on several occasions with several different experts on this area, psychologists, sociologists, criminologists, inspectors, doctors, and those who used this drug. They all cite as the largest and most effective drug in the fight against drug education, i.e. prevention, and as a problem, the parents of children who consume drugs find it difficult to accept it, already consider it a kind of weakness that will go by itself at some point. I must stress that it's not nice to see myself ugly in the mirror, but it's much uglier to break or remove a mirror. We read and hear daily about great successes in the fight against drugs, about large quantities of seizures in the wider region, in Greece on two occasions over 200kg of heroin, which experts assume was intended for the Serbian market. More than 200kg of marijuana was seized in two actions in Belgrade.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-20-0.u63872	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 20, against – none of the abstentioned—are among the 155 MPs of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Nikola Savic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on textbooks, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. Mr. Savic isn't here. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for one, against one, the abstentioned, there is no one among the 155 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Nikola Savic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Safety Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 28 March 2019. Mr. Savic isn't here. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for three, of the 155 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. People's MP, Ms. Radet, on the basis of Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Family Law, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. Here you go, Mrs. Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-20-0.u63873	Everything we Serbian radicals do in the National Assembly is based on the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and on the SRS programme. The 90th point of our programme speaks extensively about the family and the politics of birth and explains how families should be protected and the birth rate increased. I'll just tell you some parts, since there's not enough time to quote the whole point 90. "Family should become the foundation of society. The programme aims to look at the reputation and importance of the Serbian family, so that a strong and stable family can become a source of mental, moral, free, capable and humane individuals capable of creating people's well-being. “ Then, among other things, we say that the family must be as independent of the state as possible, but the existence and materially good family must provide for themselves, but the state is obliged to create an ambience in order for the ability, capital, and entrepreneurship to achieve proper satisfaction on the market. The SRS programme provides that all children up to 15 years of life should receive a child's allowance, regardless of the parent's material position, because the child's supplement is, and this is convenient now before the adoption of the budget for next year to think about it, giving because of children, and not because parents have this kind of money or that kind of money. Then it happens that parents who have more children have about 20 acres of farm, and that's why they can't get a child's allowance and their children end up in foster homes. We have initiated an amendment to the Family Law just to free ourselves of all the anomalies that exist in this law and that exist in society, which exist in the state of Serbia. You're talking, you're working the other one. You don't take care of those children and those families that are very poor, below each level, and instead of giving them children and those families a child supplement for each child, depending on the age of a child, because they are also different needs dependent on age, to determine normal amounts and not to care for, you know, grandparents have 75 years of age, to protect a child who has no parents and has a field. What are they gonna do with that field? That's why these kids can't get that child's allowance. Then what are you doing? Then you pack your children nicely with foster families, and the foster care is, unfortunately, in Serbia today, business. Fifty thousand get foster families per child, give any poor family, that family will raise their children there and the children will grow up and live in their natural environment, with the full love of parents, grandparents, to whom fate has guided them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-20-0.u63874	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 18, against – no one, the abstentioned, has 153 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. People's MP, Ms. Radet, on the basis of Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Selection of National MPs, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. Here you go, Mrs. Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-20-0.u63875	Ladies and gentlemen, fellow MPs, if you were to adopt a bill that the SRS has been putting on the agenda for more than a year, and we're trying to put it on the agenda, and it's about amending the Law on the selection of MPs, you'd at least get rid of some shame that you've brought the National Assembly into, because for three years now you don't want to listen to what the MPs of the SRS are saying, and you're coming from a white world, you're running for worship, you're listening to them. And then, when you finish those meetings, they go there for some lunches, breakfasts, etc., with this also pro-Western opposition, I say "also" because you're a pro-Western government and that's your cohesion factor, and then you rebel, comment, why this Fajon went to breakfast and lunch with that part of the opposition. Instead of that whining, you have to say, we don't need her or anyone anymore. Election conditions are a matter being resolved in the National Assembly. Election conditions, any problems, can only be discussed here. Only he who has messengers in the National Assembly has the authority of the people to establish electoral conditions. We Serbian radicals insist, and we will never stop insisting that a provision from the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which gives the MP freedom to place his mandate at the disposal of the political party from whose list he became a member of the People's Parliament, is returned to the Law of People's Parliament. It's the beginning and end of solving all problems. Do you understand how much, since this law has been so radically amended and when the Constitutional Court has made an unconstitutional decision, how many problems have arisen in the functioning of the National Assembly and how much parliamentary democracy has been thrown under its feet? We don't understand why you won't accept a serious proposal. On the one hand, you are doing everything you can to bring back to the National Assembly of some rogue MPs, and on the other hand you are doing even more to make what you are doing, or by doing it or by doing it, and to make those who are seriously doing this work think about whether they will go to elections. If you want as much fair and fair electoral conditions, the start and end of all things is to accept that we are discussing the draft law that we have proposed to you on 15 October 2018. So it wasn't about saying now -- it's going to be quick elections, it can't change that. And this is just the return of one constitutional provision. Once again we ask you - if you want regular elections, if you want all the interested political factors to go to the polls, then accept that we are talking about this, we will eventually accept your amendments, so that we finally get that law in order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-20-0.u63876	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for -14, against - no one, abstentioned - none, of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - Proposal for a Law on Putting Off the Force of the Labour Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic is not present. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for -one, against - no one, abstentioned - none, of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Miroslav Stankovic Đuričić, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Biomedical Aided Insemination, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 14 March 2019. Does MP Miroslava Stankovic Đuricic want a word? (Not present. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: for - three, against - no one, abstentioned - none, of 156 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Bozidar Delic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - a bill on the rights of fighters and families of the dead and missing fighters, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 November 2017. Since Mr Delic is not here, I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: for - three, against - no one, abstentioned - none, of 156 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Sreto Peric, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - Proposal for a Law on the Exploitation of the Law of Implementation and Security, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. Mr. Perry, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-20-0.u63877	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, one of the basic programming principles of the Serbian Radical Party is the struggle for social justice, equality and equality of its citizens. Having in legal traffic such a law, the law on enforcement and security, which is now in force, is obviously the principle of equality and equality between citizens and how it is violated. We recognized that this law could be very harmful to the citizens of Serbia and we strongly opposed 2011 when this law was passed which began to apply in 2012. We have calculated that when the Dossman regime leaves power, then those who are state-owned will change the law, however, the SNS does not think of putting such a law out of force, that is, to change it. And if in anything, gentlemen the MPs are the same with the former regime, with the DS regime, then this law on enforcement and security. We managed to gather for a short time, perhaps at a time when Serbian citizens were not able to plead on the matter, 100,000 signatures, or over 100,000 signatures of Serbian citizens who are in favour of abolishing this law. To all who have given support to abolishing this law, we thank this time and simply insist that this law be put out of force. It is impossible for an individual, in this case the minister of justice, to make a choice of public perpetrators in 2011 under that bill. It puts itself between debtors, creditors and the state, on the one hand, someone who will oversee, control the execution of a private person. The perpetrators are private entrepreneurs who are enormously wealthy and 217 of what you heard from the law on the adoption of the law on enforcement and security, Mr. Alexander Seselj, took them into their hands, in their hands the lives of several thousand Serbian citizens. Most of the time, here most of the time, under the influence of this law, some of the poorer layers of our population come, although it is very easy for those of us who have a little better standard of living to come under the influence of theirs, I would say even their revenges. We have no record that some of the perpetrators have brought humanity into this business. Maybe they're not all the same, maybe they're not all making some associations, they have real estate agencies, they don't have them personally, but connected persons, they can very often be their closest relatives have debt buy-out agencies, and then later what is a court public executioner appears, they appear as buyers.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-20-0.u63878	Thank you, Mr. Perry. I'm putting your proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—17, against—no one, the abstentioned, has any of the 156 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Ruzica Nikolic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the transplantation of human organs, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. Here you go, Mrs. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-20-0.u63879	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the Law on the Transplanting of Human Organs introduces the assumed consent. In fact, this law stipulates that transplant authorities are taken from the deceased unless that person objected orally or in writing before he died, or has contacted the Biomedicine Authority. Amendment to the Law on the Transplanting of Human Authorities, we have proposed that the so-called Presupposed Consensus be abolished by every full-time citizen of the Republic of Serbia, as Article 23 of this Law, whose amendment has been proposed, were violated by members of the Constitution 23rd and Article 25. The law cannot impose something that is contrary to the Constitution and the donation of organs for transplantation is possible only if it is the exclusive will of the donor. A donor cannot be called someone whose organs are taken apart from his will and represent it all as a voluntary act. So, we insist on abolishing the assumed consent, that is to say, requesting the amendment of the anti-constitutional member 23. Human organ transplant laws. The Serbian Radical Party also submitted an initiative to the Constitutional Court in September 2018 for the assessment of the constitutionality of the Law on the transplantation of human organs. We believe that this law, which entered into force on 2 August 2018, is anti-constitutional and that it tramples some of the fundamental human rights, such as the right to life and personal dignity, then physical integrity. It must not be allowed to take organs from the bodies of people who have not signed consent for life that in the event of brain death their organs may be used for transplantation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-20-0.u63880	Thank you, Mrs. Nikolic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 15, against – no one, the abstentioned, has any of the 157 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Filip Stojanovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Border Control, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. Here you go, Mr. Stojanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-20-0.u63881	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted a bill on amendments to the Law on Border Control and I demand that it be included in today's session agenda. It is known to all that the most important characteristics of each country are its internationally recognised borders that separate it from other countries, or its neighbours. The state of Serbia has defined and internationally recognised borders towards its neighbours. The Serbian state's borders towards its southern neighbour, i.e. Albania, have been defined by UN Security Council Resolution 12 44. Unfortunately, Serbia is one of the few countries that has violently kidnapped part of the territory by 19 NATO states, as well as some other states that want to legalise the state of occupation and to declare the borders of the AP Kosovo and Metohija towards the rest of Serbia as international borders. We do not blame the current regime for the situation in which Kosovo and Metohija were found, but we blame it for something else. Namely, the leading authorities of the Republic of Serbia must constantly insist on Resolution 12 44, which guarantees the integrity of the state territory of the Republic of Serbia. But so far, we have not seen this regime insist on Resolution 12 44 and we find that inadmissible. I remind you that according to Resolution 12 44, Serbia has the right to deploy thousands of members of its security forces at the border towards Albania. I will always ask, of all regimes, to insist on respecting Resolution 12 44. This resolution guarantees the integrity of the territory of the Republic of Serbia and does not speak of any division or demarcation. It is the attitude of all Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija. This team before the international circumstances slowly change in our favour and I am convinced that we will not wait long for the day when Kosovo and Metohija will be re-integrated with the rest of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, there should be no compromise on state territory. While other topics can be discussed with Albanians, the regime must be uncompromising on this issue, not agreeing to any negotiations or agreements on the subject. That's why we have the Constitution of Serbia, we have Resolution 12 44 and we have Russia and China with us. I believe that by adopting this law that I have proposed, it will create clear assumptions and necessity as soon as possible to put the occupied part of our territory under our full control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-20-0.u63882	Thank you, Mr. Stojanovic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is none of the 157 MPs against those who are abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Tomislav Ljubenović, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Financial Support for the Family with Children, which submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. Here you go, Mr. Ljubenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-20-0.u63883	Thank you, Chairman. I submitted a bill amending and supplementing the Financial Support Act to the family with children, to be included in the agenda. Financial support for the family with children, in the light of the exercise of the rights under this law, would contribute to improving the conditions for meeting the basic needs of children with families, who are unable to achieve this on their own, and the number of such families is increasing. The adoption of the proposed amendments and additions would put an outside force of the discriminatory provision of the applicable law, which defined that the right to children's and parental allowances would only be granted for the first, second, third and fourth children. Every child, regardless of the order of birth, must be treated equally with all the legal regulations of the Republic of Serbia. The extension of the period of payment of the parental allowance would provide partial financial security to families with more children, as the SRS proposes these amendments and additions to the Law on Financial Support for the Family with Children. By adopting these changes and additions, a basis would be created for encouraging the birth of more children and for financial empowerment of families with children, which would motivate parents to stay in Serbia, to stop the trend of mass departure from Serbia. Demographic problems are great, and one of the largest is an insufficient number of newborn children. The number of newborns is much lower than the number of deceased, leading to a negative natural growth. When we add this to the mass departure of young and middle-aged people, it is clear that the government would have to react urgently if the situation wanted to be improved. If it continues to go deaf about our draft laws, the authorities do not care what Serbia's future will be. Representatives of the government at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia insist on ignoring SRS proposals, but we will be persistent and will not give up the bill that can affect the improvement of certain areas of life. In this case in the area of childcare, more specifically financial support to the family with children, our proposal for a change and addition is comprehensive and precise, in the part where children's and parents' supplements are regulated. The adoption of these amendments, proposed by the SRS, would put aside the discriminatory provisions of the applicable laws, which have been defined as the right to children's and parental allowances only for the first, second, third and fourth children. Every child, regardless of the order of birth, must be treated equally with all the legal regulations of the Republic of Serbia. Representatives of the government of the Republic of Serbia should think carefully about spending money from the Republic of Serbia's budget in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-20-0.u63884	Thank you, Mr. Ljubenović. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 15, against – there is no one, with abstention – a total of 157 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the session agenda be complemented by the draft law supplementing the Law on the selection of MPs, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 August 2016. The MP Zivkovic is not here. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against—no one, abstentioned—a total of 157 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the session agenda be complemented by the draft law on planning and planning of space and settlements, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 August 2016. MP Zivkovic is not in the O.R. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for no one, against them, there is none, with abstentions—a total of 157 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the session agenda be complemented by the motion for a resolution of the National Assembly on the recognition and condemnation of genocide against Armenians committed in the Ottoman Empire between 1915 and 1922, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 16 August 2016. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—two, against—no one, the abstentioned—there is a total of 158 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by the draft law supplementing the Law on Higher Education, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for no one, against whom there is no one with abstention, a total of 158 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by the proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances that led to the illegal withdrawal of the work of the shareholders' insurance company "Sucho Insurance" Kragujevac, which submitted to the National Assembly on 13 July 2017. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for no one, against whom there is no one with abstention, a total of 158 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the session agenda be complemented by the draft law supplementing the Law on Government, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 25 July 2016. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, against, no one, with abstentions, has a total of 158 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session, the draft law amending the Law on the financing of political activities, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 August 2016. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, against, no one, with abstentions, has a total of 158 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by the draft law supplementing the Law on the election of the President of the Republic, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 1 November 2016. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for no one, against those who have been restrained, there is a total of 159 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the session agenda be complemented by the draft law supplementing the Law on the selection of MPs, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 12 January. 2017. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for no one, against them, there is no one with abstention, a total of 159 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the session agenda be complemented by the draft Act amending the Labour Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 9 December 2016. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for no one, against them, there is no one with abstention, a total of 159 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. People's MP Bojan Torbica, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda, the proposal for a decision on the education of the NATO Pact's committee to investigate and determine the number of victims of aggression in 1999, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Djordja Komlenski, Marijan Risticevic, Ana Karadzic and Bojan Torbica on 10 May 2019. Does MP Bojan Bagica want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Bag.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-20-0.u63885	Thank you, Chairman. This year has been completed for two decades since NATO's aggression against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia was committed without the UN Security Council's consent and international law, without any reason or cause. In an unequal fight against an disproportionately numerous and more powerful enemy, our military and police forces during the two and a half months, heroic struggles and heroic defenses of state territory under current data had 753 deaths, of which 581 soldiers and 172 police officers. At the same time, more than 2,500 were killed, and about 12,500 civilians were wounded. NATO's aggressor killed 97 children during its soundless fact, with no mercy, the youngest of which had an unfulfilled 11 months. The exact number of people killed and wounded to this day has not been established. Most of the data we have available today was identified during the first year after NATO aggression, as after the five-octobaric coup in 2000, there was a violent change in government in Serbia and a new puppet power, adding to its Western mentors to stop paying attention to the consequences of NATO aggression, ousting from the public use of the concept of aggression, using concepts of intervention and action, all in order to try to take responsibility for the aggression off NATO alliance and transfer it to the state of Serbia and its legally elected authorities. Representatives of the same puppet authorities forget to establish the rights, i.e. The exact number of victims of aggression, but they do not forget to release more than 200 of the worst KLA terrorists responsible for one of the worst crimes against the civilian population of the military and police, including the Mazrek brothers, the notorious Klecka massacrers. It is my duty as a national MP to meet all present colleagues, but also the public of Serbia with the fact that there has been a Republic War, War Crimes Research Centre in Republika Srpska since January 2013, and to search for missing persons, which will complete a large project within three to four months – the establishment and publication of the names of all victims of the Serb people during the war in BiH, between 1991 and 1995. These names of the victims will be found early next year in a publication that will be published on over a thousand pages, which will be the end of a very large job, which required maximum seriousness and professionality to make one such document without a single error. In this way, for the first time in the history of the Serbian people, we will get a complete documentary list of all victims that will prevent any attempt to revise history and reduce the victims of the Serb people during the civil war in BiH, as has been trying for decades to do with the number of Serb victims during both World War I and World War II. Looking at the attitude of the Republika Srpska authorities towards the number of victims, I ask the National Assembly to decide on the formation of a commission that would also determine the number of victims and citizens of Serbia during NATO aggression. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-20-0.u63886	Thank you, Mr. Bag. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for nine, against—no one, the abstentioned, has a total of 159 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Gjorge Komlenski, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Judges, which was submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Gjorge Komlenski and Bojan Torbica on 4 November 2019. Here you go, Mr. Komlensky.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-20-0.u63887	I thank the chairman. Violent courts were introduced into the legislative system of the Republic of Serbia on January 1st 2010. Judges of criminal courts are suing cases in the field of combating corruption, customs, the budgetary system, foreign exchange, access to information of public importance, broadcasting, traffic of explosive matter, military and labour, fire protection, traffic security, public order and peace, violations of DRI jurisdiction and many other areas. The variety of cases and the number of regulations they serve cannot be compared to any other matter in other courts, which gives them special weight. The work uses around 270 laws and about 800 regulations, which requires judges to have special skills in applying, monitoring and interpreting legal and sublegal acts. The basis of this proposal is also based on the fact that the expertise and competence to perform a judicial function, which must be met in the selection of a judicial function, are fully identical with the conditions to be met by judges of other courts, and evaluation and evaluation, based on the Regulation on criteria, criteria, procedures and bodies to evaluate the work of judges and president of courts, as well as on all other regular courts. Domestic legislation gives judges of criminal courts the status of judges with all obligations, but not rights. Except for the earnings of criminal judges, all other categories of persons employed in criminal courts have the same way you account for earnings with your colleagues working in other courts. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia provides for equality between all citizens and the law, and therefore the judge has the right to pay in accordance with the dignity of the judicial function and its responsibility. Paying the judge means guaranteeing his independence and his family's safety. Only the respect of the above can be guaranteed by the independent and independent exercise of the judicial function. And another thing, distinguished colleagues, but not less important, only the Belgrade Criminal Court in the previous 2018, with the payment of fines, brought 1,222,000.00 dinars into the Republic of Serbia's budget. In the same period for the earnings of judges and court staff with all contributions, three times less funds were paid or, more specifically, 465 million dinars. Dear colleagues, the judges of the criminal courts are not a burden to this budget, unlike some other NGOs, who for no reason draw money from the budget. They've tripled their wages and I'm asking you to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-20-0.u63888	Thank you, Mr. Komlensky. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—eight, against—no one, the abstentioned, has a total of 158 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Stefana Miladanovic and Mr Dejan Radenkovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the sittings – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Taxes on Use, Holding and Wearing of Goods, which they submitted to the National Assembly on 24 October 2019. Here you go, colleague Miladanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-20-0.u63889	Thank you, dear colleague Marinkovic. As you said, my colleague Dejan Radenkovic and I have submitted a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Taxes on Use, Holding and Wearing goods, or we have proposed to amend and supplement Article 5 of the applicable law, which stipulates that the vehicle of historical importance, i.e. oldtimers, is exempt from paying taxes on the use of the vehicle. I will remind all colleagues that, as the Assembly, by adopting amendments and supplementing the Transport Safety Act in 2018, for the first time, we have legally defined the concept of a vehicle of historical importance, i.e. an old timer. By supplementing this term in the ZOBS, a step towards resolving the status of these vehicles in Serbia has been made. Unlike other countries in Europe and the environment, Serbia has been following the trend of reducing these vehicles in Serbia for many years, and the lack of legal regulation has contributed significantly to this. According to estimates of registered associations of oldtimer lovers, there are over 3,000 passenger vehicles in Serbia that would categorize as vehicles of historical importance, and this number should be added to mopeds, tricycles, motorcycles and quads. Almost 90% of these vehicles are not registered because the law does not recognise the status of oldtimer in the registration process and determine the level of tax. We believe that these vehicles should be excluded when it comes to the amount of taxes to be determined on the basis of the engine's operating volume. Although the owners of a vehicle whose age exceeds 20 years pay 20% of the estimated tax amount, most of these vehicles have a large cubicity, and the reduction on this basis is slightly significant. For example, Kadilak Eldorado of 1972, which has 6,200 cubic metres or different vehicles of Mercedes L 450 production, which has 6,900 cubic metres, pay a tax greater than 1,000 euros with a reduction. These vehicles don't usually drive. Most often we can see them at exhibitions or gatherings dedicated to the fans of these vehicles, which is only two to three times a year. We do not consider it economically justified to register under the applicable rules. In the draft of new names and additions to the Transport Safety Act whose real debate was concluded last week, the MUP also envisioned the addition of members of the ZOBS to deal with the question of the process of determining and sorting these vehicles, the withdrawal of vehicle status from historical importance and other issues and procedures, which would systematically round the issue of oldtimer. Therefore, in the same article of our bill, we have proposed adding a new stance that would require the owner of the oldtimer to obtain proof of compliance with the conditions for tax exemption in order to prevent possible abuses. In the assembly procedure, the government's Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Taxes on Use, Sticking and Wearing goods, which includes a proposal for electric vehicles and hybrid vehicles to also release taxes. That's something to support. With tax relief regarding the registration of old-timer, the Republic of Serbia would benefit multiple times. It would have a precise insight into the number of vehicles, stop a negative trend, and, most importantly from the state's point of view, allow for the smooth use of these vehicles, control and collect revenues from both rental and traffic, which would be another new source of revenue for Serbia's budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-20-0.u63890	Thank you, colleague Miladanovic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for -30, against - no one, with abstentions, has, in total, 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marijan Risticevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point - a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's polling committee to identify the facts and circumstances related to the business of cable operators, the broadcasting of cross-border channels, the broadcasting of domestic advertising in content of cross-border channels and other irregularities related to electronic media and cable operators controlled by Dragan Gilas, Dragan Šolak and David Petreus, who submitted to the National Assembly on 12 April 2019. Here you go, Mr. Ristichevich.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-20-0.u63891	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we all already know that United Group is the owner of SBB, United Media, Adriatic News, Darrekt Media, Cass Media, N1 Television, New S TV and 20 more fake cross-border channels. These are television channels that are not registered in Serbia and that do not pay any fees in Serbia, unlike domestic media. Apparently, they re-emission the programme even if they are only fictitiously registered in Luxembourg and do not broadcast the programme there. There can be no re-emission, no broadcast, as a re-occurrence cannot happen without vaccination. So these are fake cross-border channels, which serve Solakov and Gilas's business to pump out a subscription to SBB by citizens of the Republic of Serbia. With that in mind, you certainly know that domestic media, which unlike these cross-borders, who pay nothing and who can't even be sued for false information, domestic media pays everything. They pay all the fees and mostly support themselves from advertising revenues. However, these fake cross-border television programs include Serbian commercials, thus taking bread with domestic channels. Home channels, and you know it, they can broadcast 12 minutes of commercials in an hour, and every commercial has to be seduced. That's what these fake Gilas and the School's cross-border televisions don't have to do or do. Lately, you've certainly read that the programming director of one of these Schools and Gilas TVs is getting money from Albanians. So he gets the money, when the software director of N1 television, fake cross-border Luxembourg TV, gets money from Tirana, from drug lords, the Tropoly drug mobster, Baki Mulay, then what I've been saying for months gets extra weight. So, it's a television that, and there's an indication that it's also receiving British pounds, that's what my colleague Komlenski did last time, that she got over 250,000 euros from the Americans, and 335 thousand pounds to the British. When you take all of our eternal friends, then you know where we are. Apart from pumping money from the Republic of Serbia, they actively participate in the destabilising of the Republic of Serbia and the collapse of the state order in the Republic of Serbia. TV N1 and "New S" participate actively in the organisation of demonstrations, participate in these demonstrations they organised, report from these demonstrations and encourage violent acts conducted, mainly in Belgrade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-20-0.u63892	Thank you, Mr. Ristichevich. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, for—23, against—no one, of the 160 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marijan Risticevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's polling committee to identify the facts and circumstances related to visits to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia of certain extremist organisations and individuals, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 27 March 2018. Does MP Marian Risticevic want a word? (Yes) Here you go, colleague Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-20-0.u63893	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this proposal concerns the visits of extremist organisations, namely their representatives, the parliament of the Republic of Serbia and certain MPs. I think it is more than just visiting extremist organisations in Serbia, but creating them on our soil. Ladies and gentlemen, Boška Obradovica, and in a people known as "Bosko Ljotic Žutić", was visited by Mr. Pernar, the grandson of Pernar, who in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, in time, asked: "Why is it costing Serbian blood from Kajmakalan? "The second visit that was made, Boška Obradovica and his MP group that existed at the time, was the visit of the Bulgarian extremist organisation "Ataka", with which he made a special connection. To remind you that the fascist Bulgarian organisation is looking for certain parts of the territory of the Republic of Serbia to join Bulgaria and they are a dearly received guest and a dearly seen guest at Bosko Obradovic. Bosko Obradovic, a follower of Dimitri Ljotic, fully inherited his policy. Mr. Ljotic said in time: “We don’t need voters, we need fighters. ” What Dimitrije Ljotic said was fully accepted by Bosko Obradovic, in a people known as "Bosko Ljotic Žutić". So he accepted and gave up voters and began recruiting fighters who have been breaking polling stations across Serbia and Belgrade and are planning to re-crush a number of polling stations in the next parliamentary local elections. So it's no longer about visiting extremist organisations, but about creating them in the Alliance for Serbia, as they call themselves. In fact, it's an alliance of crooks, con men and cheaters. So everything that Dmitry Ljotic and Bosko Ljotic are planning is now planned by joint political organisations belonging to this alliance of fraud, thief and fraud. Every day you can see that they grow into an extremist organization with terrorist traits. So it's an organization and a set of political organizations that advocate rape, hanging, censusing, driving into a camp, throwing into the Danube and Sava, all the Ustasha elements are planning to do are those from the alliance of thieves, frauds and frauds. That's why I think we should set up a polling committee and deal with this issue seriously until these extreme political organisations become classical terrorists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-20-0.u63894	Thank you, Mr. Ristichevich. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 21, against – none of the abstentions – there is a total of 156 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marijan Risticevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's polling committee, in order to establish the facts and circumstances related to the declaration of the fake state of Kosovo, the impact that the International Court of Justice had on this, and the responsibility of former Foreign Minister Vuk Jeremic, who submitted to the National Assembly on 27 March 2018. Here you go, colleague Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-20-0.u63895	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's almost a year since I've advocated the formation of this committee of inquiry. Meanwhile, you also listened to a copy of the Rocen-Jeremic talks. Do you need more proof that I was right when I asked for this survey board? Two gentlemen boasted in the conversation that they broke up the former state union of Serbia-Montenegro, so they went one step further. They said that one was “j... Mother" Montenegro, and ours boasted that "j... "The Republic of Serbia, then exchanged their sexual expressions with the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Montenegro. The state union of Serbia-Montenegro had its territory, had its borders and what Vuk Jeremic did, and Boris Tadic is an act of high treason. As far as the International Court of Justice's opinion is concerned, the high treason has continued. No one asked Vuk Jeremic or Boris Tadic from Serbia to change the resolution, to throw out the UN, to introduce the EU, thus eliminating China and Russia. Also, no one asked them to seek the opinion of the International Court of Justice, in which judges from countries that recognised the false state of Kosovo and Metohija sat. However, Vuk Jeremic asked for the opinion and it is the cornerstone of the Albanian quasi state and the foundation stone is also called upon by Mr Thaci, when he wants to prove that their independence, and the false state, in accordance with international law, is being called to the UN precisely for the opinion he sought and ordered by Vuk Jeremic from the International Court of Justice. What he was doing, he cashed in on business when he chaired the UN Assembly, cashed in with the businesses he privately made with Patrick Ho and various organizations and businesses and companies from Hong Kong, where he profited $7.5 million. Therefore, I ask that the committee of inquiry be established and that we deal with Vuk Jeremic, a people known as the Wolf benevolent, because of high treason and an orderly opinion of the International Court of Justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-20-0.u63896	Thank you, Mr. Ristichevich. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—16, against—no one, abstentioned—any one, of the 156 MPs of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Since we have agreed on proposals to supplement the proposed agenda, pursuant to Article 93(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote a draft agenda in general. I conclude the vote: for – 139, against – none, abstention – none, of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the Sixth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019, in general. We are going to work on the established agenda of the session. Dn n e d: Proposal for a Budget Act of the Republic of Serbia for 2020, with a proposal for a decision on granting consent to the Financial Fund for Pension and Disability Insurance for 2020, a proposal for a decision on granting consent to the Financial Fund for Health Insurance for 2020, a proposal for a decision on granting consent to the National Employment Service for 2020 and a proposal for a decision on granting consent to the Social Insurance Fund for the 2020 period. We move on to a principled and uniform search on the draft Act on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2020, with a proposal for a decision on granting consent to the Financial Fund for Pension and Disability Insurance for 2020, a proposal for a decision on granting consent to the Financial Plan of the Republic of Health Insurance Fund for 2020, a proposal for a decision on granting consent to the National Employment Service for 2020 and a proposal for a decision on granting consent to the Financial Plan of the Social Insurance Fund for the Social Insurance of Military Insurance for 2020. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that all members of the Government and their associates have been invited to attend, so we have a prime minister present. Welcome to you and members of the government. First item of the agenda - Proposal for a Budget Act of the Republic of Serbia for 2020, with a proposal for a decision on granting consent to the Financial Fund for Pension and Disability Insurance for 2020, a proposal for a decision on granting consent to the Financial Plan of the Republic of Health Insurance Fund for 2020, a proposal for a decision on granting consent to the National Employment Service for 2020 and a proposal for a decision on granting consent to the Social Insurance Fund for the 2020 period. You've received a bill from the government. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending. Before opening a principled and unique search, I remind you that, according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. The president of the Serbian Progressive Party's parliamentary group, Dr Aleksandar Martinovic, proposed a longer debate in principle, i.e. the time of debate for parliamentary groups is ten hours. This proposal is decided by the National Assembly without a search. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 146, against – none, abstention – none, of the 160 MPs of the people. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs, in accordance with Article 96(4). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Pursuant to Article 157(1) and Article 192(3). I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, with a proposal for a decision to give its consent to the Financial Fund for Pension and Disability Insurance for 2020, a proposal for a decision to give its consent to the Financial Plan of the Republic of Health Insurance Fund for 2020, a proposal for a decision to give its consent to the National Employment Service's 2020 financial plan and a proposal for a decision to give its consent to the Financial Plan of the Social Insurance Fund for the Military Insurance Fund for 2020. Do the representatives of the motionor want a word? The word is made by the Prime Minister, Mrs. Ana Brnabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-20-0.u63897	Thank you. Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, respected MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, are now in front of the National Assembly the draft budget law of the Republic of Serbia for 2020, which we are confident will, above all, contribute to the further raising of the standard of living in every sense, in terms of better income, in terms of improved health care and better conditions for the treatment of our citizens throughout Serbia, in terms of better conditions for the education of children, further modernisation of our education system, in terms of investment in culture, further support for our culture, further support for our cultural institutions, cultural institutions in terms of investment in sport infrastructure, better targetling social protection, greater support for the most vulnerable categories of the population, greater support for innovative policy and further investment in the protection and improvement of the environment. This budget is, above all, developmental and we are confident that it will further contribute to the economic growth and economic progress of our country. With the budget to the greatest extent, and from that I begin, we propose further increase in investment in our infrastructure. And after this year, in 2019, in which we ended up complete Corridor 10, as well as important shares in Corridor 11, i.e. On the highway "Milos Veliki" and to which we will complete the highway from Surcin to Cačko, we are expected in 2020, in which we are opening a new investment cycle in infrastructure, the construction of the Moravski Corridor, which is particularly important for residents of Čačka, Kraljevnik, Trstenik, Kroševac, Vrnjačka Banja and Ćićevec, the construction of the Fruskogorski Corridor, which is particularly important for the AP Vojvodina, further construction of the highway to BiH and Republika Srpska, the beginning of the construction of the so-called "Fruskogorski Corridor", which is particularly important for the AP Vojvodina, further construction of the highway to BiH and Republika Srpska, the beginning of the so-called "Milos Velika" highway, which we will complete the road from Surcin to Cačina. "The Highway of Peace", to the port of Durres, which is important for the further regional integration of the Republic of Serbia, is for our further economic growth, but is also vital for the residents of Prokuplje and Kursumli, the construction of a fast traffic station of Ruma-Shabac-Loznica, as well as further construction of a fast track between Belgrade-Budapest, i.e. the beginning of works on shares between Novi Sad and Kelebija. So this all starts in 2020 and all of this is foreseen by the 2020 draft budget, which is before you. The 2020 budget envisions record allocations for capital investments, around 260 billion dinars, which will certainly boost further GDP growth. To all who have criticised this budget so far, I will today respond to these criticisms and who say that this budget is not developmental and that it will not cause further economic growth, but economic slowdown, I say that they look again and pay attention to how much funds we have proposed to commit to capital investment. Sure investment in infrastructure, in better roads and railways, in connecting cities and municipalities in Serbia, but connecting Serbia with the region certainly means much better quality of life and living standards of all our citizens, means new investments in the Republic of Serbia, means easier placement of goods, domestic goods, our goods on the foreign market, less internal migration, which is particularly important to us, better opportunities and equal living conditions for all our citizens wherever they live in Serbia. True, with the budget we propose and continue investment in our security services, and some have criticised it and I want to respond to that in two sentences. So, yes, we propose to continue investment in our security services, because it is important that our people be safe and safe, and that Serbia in a world full of challenges, and above all in terms of terrorism, extremism and migration be a stable and secure state. To be absolutely clear, the epithet of a safe state or the epithet of a safe city, whether it's Belgrade, or Novi Sad, or Nis, or Kragujevac, or Zaječar, or Loznica, or any other city, therefore, the epithet of a safe state and a safe city will carry with them a growing and greater value in the future and will be increasingly globally and sought and appreciated. I believe that by doing so, all our investments in security and security will return to us both for our citizens and for our economy. I want to repeat today that, thanks to the difficult reforms implemented since 2014, when the Prime Minister today was President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic, thanks to these reforms, we as Government today have the means for everything we do and for everything we propose to citizens and for you to start in 2020, but you will also see in the budget that we continue to act responsibly, it seems to me, even slightly conservative, and that at no time are we jeopardising our fiscal stability, our budget and future generations coming after us, because we do not want to leave them with debts and problems, but greater employment, stable growth and infrastructure that will allow them to continue to build and strengthen our country tomorrow. So, the budget is made so that, without jeopardising the stability of public finances and the pace of public debt cuts, we raise the standard of living, we stimulate private consumption and we accelerate economic growth. The main characteristics of the proposed 2020 budget are: the sustainable deficit of the general government in 2020 of 0.5% of GDP, i.e. around 30 billion dinars, this is the general government 0.5%; at the republican level of deficits of some 0.3% of GDP; a steady distribution of fiscal space to an increase in living standards through salary and pension increases of around 1.3% of GDP; growth incentives through an increase in public investment that will reach about 4.5% of GDP at the general government level and tax redundancy of labour that will be implemented by reducing the PIO contribution to the employer's burden by some 0.5% points and raising the non-taxable censorship from 15.300 to 16.300 dinars. With this tax redundancy, we will in some ways replace the cost that the economy has due to an agreed increase in minimum earnings of 11.1%) compared to last year. So, as of January 1st, minimum earnings have been raised to 30,022 dinars. What we were trying to achieve by facilitating employers and, it seems to me, another significant increase in the minimum labour price of the third year in a row, was 8.6%, and 10%, so this year 11.1% of the minimum labour price, is to open up the space for further talks in the next year between the union and the employer, to have a significant increase in the minimum labour price, but also to carry on as a state part of these costs and continue to build a stable, predictable business environment. We designed a real GDP growth of 4% in 2020 and an average inflation of 2%. As I said, budget revenues were planned conservatively and they fully correspond to the current state of our economy. In other words, we are certain that these revenues will certainly be realised. Just a few words about the state of our economy today, which I think is extremely important compared to how we planned our budget. The National Bank of Serbia announced an estimate for GDP growth in the third quarter this year of 4.7%. According to the results available, we are currently the second country to GDP growth in the third quarter of Europe, right behind Hungary. Growth in the third quarter of the EU was 1.3%. The truth is, in the first half of the year, we had slightly lower growth, slower growth than planned, especially in the first quarter of this year. It seems to me that because of the extremely high growth rate in the first quarter of 2018, which was close to 5%. So we had an extremely high base to reach and because we didn't fail in infrastructure, but we had a much lower growth of infrastructure in the first quarter of this year compared to the first quarter of last year, which is due to weather conditions. Last year, if you remember, we almost didn't have a winter. So the construction season continued without a break, while we had quite a harsh winter this year, we didn't have any serious infrastructure works in January or February or just a little bit in March. Also, we had a remont in NIS, so it all affected much worse GDP growth in the first quarter and slightly worse growth in the second quarter. What's good is that business activity throughout the year records the growth that we absolutely expect will continue in the fourth quarter. Our estimates are that this year we're going to have a growth of between 3.7% and 3.8%, which means we're going to switch that 3.5% projection. That's great news, especially given that last year, in 2018, we had an economic growth of as much as 4.4%. As far as growth is concerned, on the productive side of it, this year's agriculture and after the above-average results last year, in 2018, which were above the 10-year average, we heard many who said it was an incident year. After this very, very good year in agriculture, regardless of the poorer weather conditions, agricultural production records excellent results this year. She kept the same level of production as last year, and as I said, she was better than our 10-year average, and we even believe that this year we're even going to move a little bit into last year with over 20% of exports and it seems impossible for you to have two incident years in a row. In fact, it shows that our agriculture is developing, that the investments we have launched are paying off to make our agriculture more productive and more resilient. I am convinced that this will only be better in the future as the first results of the projects we implemented in previous years, above all, increased investments in irrigation systems, field electrification, automatic anti-building protection, which will continue in 2020. I also believe that, and I talked to Minister Nedimovic, that we should invest even more in the subsidies for equipment, to modernise our agricultural production, to raise further the efficiency of our agriculture. It is extremely important to invest in the food industry so that we do not export raw materials, but semi-products or final products, and in particular to invest more focus, and in particular we have discussed the Minister and I in order to invest in the quality of the fruit material, because all these things will be determined, determine what our agriculture will look like in the future. I am particularly pleased that today we have some good news in terms of privatising "Buda" from Požega, not only the big brand, the great symbol of our agricultural production, but also as one of the basic drivers throughout Serbia and Požega and the whole region, and I expect that today after the successful privatisation of Budimka, by domestic investors, domestic successful companies, we and before the end of the first quarter of next year will have a re-launched work in "Budamci". In addition to agriculture, buildings and infrastructure have retreated again very this year. It continued significant growth over 35% in the third quarter of this year with a large contribution from road and pipeline infrastructure, as well as the construction of business buildings and housing with planned and budgeted projects in various infrastructure areas. It's not just a road and railway infrastructure that certainly takes away most of it, or has the largest share in the total investments that we are planning in 2020. There's energy infrastructure, health infrastructure. We invest huge amounts of funds in health infrastructure and we are only for the construction of health facilities throughout Serbia, we are certainly continuing reconstruction and construction of the Clinical Centre of Serbia in Belgrade, we are starting the next year construction of the University of Vojvodina Clinical Centre in Novi Sad, we are preparing technical documentation for the Kragujevac Clinical Centre, but also a whole series of general hospitals, health homes, specialised hospitals, and here we have proposed the withdrawal of 7.7 billion dinars, which is an increase of even 40% for health infrastructure compared to this year. Extremely, extremely important for our citizens to have good conditions to be treated, to see that the state takes care of them, but also that our healthcare professionals and our doctors, nurses and technicians work in the best possible conditions, in conditions that are one of the best in Europe. Also, in education infrastructure and infrastructure to support innovation, old applications to companies, research and development and infrastructure in the field of environmental protection and environmental improvements, I believe that only with this growth will we continue next year. Third, the service sector also continues to make stable growth that also contributes most to our GDP growth. So the service sector is making the most of our GDP right now. As part of the services of the fastest growing areas are certainly information and communication technologies, tourism and traffic. We expect growth to continue in 2020 in all these three areas. Traffic certainly - as we end our highways, so traffic through the Republic of Serbia intensifys and thus shares in our overall economic growth. Tourism - certainly as we lead a smart visa liberalisation policy, but as "Er Serbia" develops, we have more and more direct flights. As Belgrade, but also Serbia is becoming a more famous destination, we expect tourism to grow further in 2020. Farthest potential, as you know, I believe we have in the information technology sector, which in the last three years is growing at an annual rate of over 20% years a year. So in 2017 compared to 2016 21.6%, 2018 compared to 2017, even 26.2% and in the first nine months of this year compared to nine months last year 26.5%. Now tell me if we know any sectors, any areas of our economy that grow from last year 22%, compared to that 22% of the additional 26%, compared to that 26% of the additional 28%. Certainly fascinating results, as well as data that in the first eight months of this year exports of information technology, Serbia's services have already exceeded the total exports we had in IT services throughout 2017 and it is twice as high as in the same period in 2016. Drastic, dramatic growth and enormous potential. That is why we planned further investments and incentives for this area with the proposed budget. The other indicators certainly speak in favour of improving the economic environment in the Republic of Serbia. The unemployment rate at the end of the second quarter of this year was 10.3%. It has been more than halved compared to 2012 and has also been a record low unemployment since 1995, i.e. since a labour poll was conducted in Serbia. We expect the data to show that at the end of the third quarter of this year unemployment in Serbia fell below 10%, that for the first time in Serbia, unemployment is single-digit. Serbia is, according to the Financial Times, for the second time in three years, the world leader in attracting foreign direct investment. Last year, we attracted about 3.5 billion euros in foreign direct investment. Last year, Serbia with the 3.5 billion euros of foreign direct investment attracted more investment than the entire region, the entire rest of the Western Balkans region combined. This excellent trend continues, and in the first nine months of this year, we record a 33% growth in foreign direct investment inflows compared to last year and have attracted up to now two billion 870m euros in foreign direct investment. At the "Ding Business" of the World Bank, we have made progress from four places this year. Fitch has increased Serbia's credit rating from b.b to b.b plus with a tendency to move forward. Moodys has improved the outlook for increasing credit ratings from stable to positive. Based on all this, in 2020 we retain a 4% projection of economic growth, which means, if we succeed, that our economic growth will be above 4% on average from 2018 to 2020. Certainly, without further ado, we know and do not need independent experts to tell us about it, that Serbia has potential and for greater growth than this and we have also shown that economic policies, we can influence policy decisions and we know how to affect accelerated economic growth and we will continue to do so in 2020. As for expenditure foreign budgets, total expenditure in 2020 is planned at 22.9% of GDP. Total expenditure on employees is planned at 318.6 billion dinars. Salaries in the public sector, as you know, have increased in the range of 8-15%, mostly in the health sector. What is extremely important to me today, because we haven't talked about it so far and it's important, first of all, for our pensioners and to confirm today, Minister Mali talked about it trying to do it and that it will most likely be so, today I want to confirm that pensions from January 2020 will increase by 5.4%. I said, we did, and when the IMF mission was in Serbia, we said there would be a minimum increase of 5%, and we will fight for every percentage. It's going to increase 5.4%, which is significant. I want to thank all of you who have believed in the policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, President Vukic, since 2014, for the fiscal consolidation measures, because this shows that, compared to pensions in 2014, this increase, including this increase from 5.4% since 1 January 2020, will increase pensions in Serbia from 13.7% to 19.4%. This shows how worried we are about our pensioners, but also about the most vulnerable in the Republic of Serbia. The total expenditure on pensions in 2020 will be 581.2 billion dinars and the coordination of pensions will begin with the application of the so-called so-called pensions. Swiss formulas, i.e. the harmonisation of pensions in relation to inflation and the growth of average earnings compared to 50-50. As I said, a significant part of the fiscal space is aimed at improving public investment, the largest of which on rail and traffic infrastructure and the new investment cycle. Social policy - for social protection we have proposed to allocate 125 billion dinars, which is slightly more than 4% compared to 2019. For the protection of families and children, we propose to allocate 65 billion dinars or 3% more than in 2019 and additionally, we have allocated 650 million dinars in the cabinet budget of the minister without portfolio in charge of demographics and population policy, for a programme to support the implementation of population policy measures in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Population policy is so important that it is something that all ministries will continue to work on and in which we will continue to consult and work in co-operation with the cabinet of the President of the Republic, because without this there is really no need to invest in the future, because without changing our trend in the population, that is, in the number of births of children, there is really no point in talking about Serbia's future. I am pleased that the final number of children born in Serbia in 2019 is growing. It was also discussed today by Minister Slavica Djukic Dejanovic and that Serbia is the only country in the region that has at least managed to change the trend of growth. This doesn't guarantee anything, this doesn't mean that we've managed to change and reverse in the long term, this just means that we can and that the citizens in this thing have recognized what's important for all of us and we will continue to invest in 2020 and hopefully the future government will continue this course for 2021, 2022, 2023 and 2024. An important task ahead of us in 2020 is the introduction of a social card system and the implementation of a fairly complex e-social project, but if we succeed in doing it right, it will allow us a much more efficient social protection system, much better control, much better targeting, so that with the same resources that we are planning, which we are budgeting to do much more, we can do much better to help and much more to help those most vulnerable categories of the population, but also much better to fight poverty in Serbia. As the finance minister during the debate on the budget will certainly enter into the details of the budget, both in terms of income and in terms of expenditure, and on individual portfolios, and answer your questions, I wanted to end with just a few more sentences about how the priorities of this government are implemented through the 2020 budget, those priorities that I presented to you in my exposé, and for which we have your trust. First of all, digitisation and education, as key priorities that will allow us both faster and more sustainable economic development, more dynamic economic development, greater competitiveness, but also retaining young people in Serbia. Returning, every large number of those who have left Serbia over the past decades and years, to Serbia. In 2020, we again invest significant funds in modernising or further modernising our education system. For the Connected School project and digital textbooks we plan to allocate about four billion dinars, which will allow us to connect 500 more schools to the fast wireless internet and introduce another 10,000 digital classrooms, i.e. digital teaching facilities. So since 1 September 2020, we will have a total of 1,000 schools fully connected to the fast internet in each classroom and a total of 20,000 classrooms with digital textbooks all over Serbia. We also plan to renovate all computer cabinets in primary and secondary schools over the next four years and renovate that equipment every four years. In 2020, we proposed to extract 840 million dinars to equip computer cabinets in over 400 schools across Serbia. We continue to invest in innovation infrastructure and infrastructure for science, technology, "start ap" companies, education, development, of around 100m euros. In 2020, we will complete the construction of the Nis Science and Technology Park, the construction of the Science and Technology Park in Novi Sad, the laboratory lamela of the Faculty of Electronic Engineering in Nis and the state-owned data centre in Kragujevac. The same year, therefore, in 2020, we will begin building the Biosens Institute in Novi Sad, as a European centre of excellence in digital agriculture. We will start building another FON building in Belgrade to increase the capacity of this university, which is reported by the largest number of students, building additional buildings in Belgrade's Science and Technology Park, which is currently fully charged. It was opened in 2015, and at this point around 700 of the best engineers have been employed there that contribute significantly to both growth and development, both Serbia and our IT technologies. So here we plan to build additional buildings and solve space issues for the Scientific Technology Park in Cačka. During 2020, we also open six more "start ap" centres in Arilj, Bačka Petrovac, Užica, Priboj, Svilinc and Kragujevac. In the budget of the Public Investment Management Office, we allocated additional funds to renovate dozens of primary and secondary schools. We have foreseen an additional tax charge for investment in innovation companies, research and development, employment of young people, especially young people who are returning from the diaspora. This is what we want to target the problem we still have, which is that, as unemployment falls, which is a great result we still have the problem of youth unemployment which at this point, at the end of the second quarter of 24.4%, will certainly fall at the end of the third quarter, but we still want to target it in particular. I am pleased that the Fiscal Council has also recognised these strategic investments and praised the allocations for education, which, for me, is the pararexean of detachment and investment in the future and to quote them – with the 2020 budget, investments in the education sector are planned at around 22 billion dinars, which is almost 60% higher, or for about eight billion dinars more than in 2010. We thus show that the budget is practical and reflects the policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia which we have presented to you in the exposé and for which you have given us your trust. We also proposed to increase investment in the Innovation Labour Fund to a billion and 260 million dinars. We doubled the budget of the Science Fund. We founded a science fund this year. Since January 1st, we have even proposed a double budget of the Science Fund to increase it to one billion dinars. All this will allow new projects to invest in young scientists, research and development and innovation. Three billion dinars have been allocated to the economy ministry's budget to promote entrepreneurship. In line with the government's priorities, we continue to invest significantly in electronic governance. Both citizens and businesses today see benefits, clear benefits, direct benefits from investment and the introduction of electronic administration. Citizens through the fact that more than 5.5 million documents since 1 June 2017 were exchanged electronically when we started with the electronic administration, which means that 5.5 million papers from citizens of the Republic of Serbia, across Serbia, were not brought, collected from the counter to the counter and brought to the feet of public servants, either at the local, or in the Republic, were already working for them, because we are their service today and we are proud of it. Citizens see it today and through the E-baby project. Today, when the baby is born in Serbia, you finish all the applications, completely free of charge for ten minutes at the maternity home and the health card of the newborn and the birth certificate and the message that within 45 days a parental allowance will be paid, and none of which you no longer have to do, but we work for you. And the E-recept, which is especially important for a pensioner, don't have to go to a doctor every month if they have chronic diseases, to waste time, and also to waste our doctors' time on administration, but it all ends automatically. What is particularly important to me is that small and medium-sized enterprises in terms of economy also recognize the benefits of electronic administrations and that we saw in a project of Juseid a research of 1,000 representatives of small and medium-sized enterprises who said that as many as 74% of them said that the work of public administration, that today the work of public administration is much more efficient than just a year ago. And 72% of representatives of small and medium-sized enterprises said there was an increase in transparency and predictability of business in Serbia. It's all thanks to the e-Government. We propose an increase in the budget of the Office for Information Technologies and the E-Government of the Government of the Republic of Serbia as a central body, a co-ordination body, for all resistors, as well as for all public institutions, institutions and local self-government, we propose an increase in the budget by more than 40% to 6.7 billion dinars. This will allow us to develop new registers, new infrastructures, introduce additional electronic services, which will further save time for citizens, facilitate business, increase labour efficiency and transparency and help us fight corruption further. In the 2020 budget, also extremely important to me, which shows the government's policy and policy that we are leading, which will change how this country looks in each corner, we plan to start investment in development and broadband communication infrastructures in rural areas of 2.1 billion dinar. This is just phase one. These funds are extremely important to us, because they will allow access to electronic services to all citizens, and businesses in rural areas. It will also allow young people to stay in villages and have access to the infrastructure they would otherwise have in cities. So, along the highways, rail corridors, we invest in digital roads, in digital corridors in every village in the Republic of Serbia. We are making a basis for further transformation of our economy and our society into the future. All of these are strategic investments, which no one, who criticized this budget, has recognized, has not seen and has not been commended so far. We do not need praise, we need everything we do to see that Serbia really becomes a different country, a stronger country, a winning country, a country that invests in its young people, but also takes care of its pensioners, its poorest citizens and marginal groups, but at the same time not endangering the economy, but improving the economic environment. We'll continue to invest in culture as well. I am particularly pleased that in the term of this government we have finished and opened the National Museum of Contemporary Art, the National Theatre "Bora Stankovic" in Vranj. I think we've put an end to every further discussion about who in this country has taken care of and taken care of both culture and our cultural rise, and the future of our culture and further promotion of our culture in the world. This is the first government ever to take credit to improve the infrastructure in the field of culture, so that our artists, cultural creators, performers have decent working conditions. During 2020, and we foreseen this in this budget, in collaboration with the town of Novi Sad and the government of the AP Vojvodina, we will complete the activities of infrastructure projects planned for the 2021 marking when Novi Sad is the European Capital of Culture, the year will certainly mark and bring the end of the works at the National Theatre in Subotica, further work on preparing the most modern concert hall in Belgrade, the Creative Centre of Ložinica in Belgrade, the alternative scene of the National Theatre, so-called "The City of Ljubljana". workshops, reconstruction of the House of the Army and the design for the Cultural Centre in Pirote, our Creative Embassy in London, the establishment of the legions of our famous painter Vladimir Veličković and the opening of the Gallery at Kosančić's Venac, as well as the preparation for the construction of the Faculty of Music Art, which will finally solve the decades-old problem of the temporary and unconditional accommodation of young musicians. But, as well as best possible, we will once again show our relationship to culture and the importance of culture for this country and this society. Dear Members of Parliament, we have worked with commitment and responsibility in the 2020 budget. We have tried to fully follow the priorities of this government, for which we have been given the mandate to implement them, but at any moment we are thinking about the real, daily life of our citizens and we are working and planning to increase the standard of living of our citizens as soon as possible, but also that the perspectives in our country, in terms of health, education, roads, environments, cultural offers and everything else, are better every day. On the other hand, we have been extremely careful, extremely careful, and in the proposal for this budget, we have predicted that we do not in any way endanger the hard-earned fiscal stability of our country and that the growth and economy and living standards of our citizens are on the ground and not at the expense of future generations, but in order to provide them with better opportunities than we have today. Because that's what every point of everything we do today is. I am particularly proud that today is not an election budget, but a development budget. And that in another way shows our responsibility to our citizens and to the future of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-20-0.u63898	Thank you, Prime Minister. Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 87, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. I will now give my word to the committee's rapporteur, Mrs. Aleksandri Tomic. Here you go, Professor Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-20-0.u63899	The Honorable Chairman, dear Prime Minister, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is mine to tell you that in front of the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Control of the spending of public funds there was a session yesterday, which lasted almost four and a half hours. On the proposal of opposition MPs, we doubled the time of debate on the Committee itself, as time has doubled here at the session. What we had the opportunity to hear is the presentation of Mr. Minister to the budget presentation on the basis of projections and results that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and all citizens of Serbia have on the basis of all macroeconomic indicators in 2019 and, as the prime minister said, would not be repeated, except that we are very pleased that the projected increase in wages and pensions is indeed coming for the next year on average 9.6% and that part was precisely the subject of the entire Committee, which concerns the view of the Fiscal Council on this issue. We also look forward to hearing how the government of the Republic of Serbia is giving consideration to the Assembly's budget for next year, in the work concerning growth and the development of the economy itself and throughout Serbia, but also in the socially responsible part of our commitment to care for all citizens of Serbia equally, in the same way. This is what actually gave support by colleagues who represented that the best model of pension increases was actually this Swiss formula, which was also spoken of by the Fiscal Council, but it was necessary to create economic conditions so that we could apply these formulas. And that's what all the MPs agree on, no matter what foreigners belong to, although many do not want to acknowledge these results to both this government and the previous governments led by the SNS and Mr Vukic himself. What we were very interested in was what it would look like next year, not only in this economic sense and the reduction of unemployment that would fall clearly below the two-digit number, but we were also interested in how the development of the infrastructure itself will look, given that from 320 km of all roads built, means the complete infrastructure network of roads in Serbia, 105 km open and finished right this year. So what you've had is now to give us a detailed list of all infrastructure projects, in fact, is justifying why the budget is this good. The fiscal council said it's a well-designed deficit, it's a very well-designed budget, but it's given major objections to the so-called. by an abnormal increase in wages, he then gave great criticism, which is why we've given so much budget to pay the fines of some court proceedings that are still from 2005, 2006, 2007, as if we're now about to design how we're going to be punished, not some international courts. Obviously, when it comes to charge, it all comes at once. They spoke of infrastructure projects related to municipal infrastructure and environmental infrastructure not being financed enough in this budget, which we all, as well as the MPs, have answered all these questions by the finance minister. This is what is of great importance to us, because the answers are truly adequate and fully justified. When we talk about the infrastructure of municipal activity, they are in the budget on the items of local self-government in Article 3, because local self-government knows best what infrastructure projects they need, and they have put them through this budget through their demands. Secondly, when we talk about environmental protection, and there's almost a double budget right through the credit lines. I also had the opportunity to hear Mr. Vesic this morning who said that the city of Belgrade today has been on this budget through the citizens of Serbia, which has made one full action "Budget by measure of Serbian citizens", through some over 300 proposals, has included 100 proposals themselves in the Belgrade city budget, just as it relates to sewage and general municipal infrastructure and the part relating to environmental protection. So, otherwise, Belgrade will be a very good example for all the cities in Serbia that budgets should be done and, ultimately, push the republican budgets in this direction where we will really increase the standard of citizens, and thus speed up this economic growth through these projects. We were glad to hear Mr. Finance's response to the part relating to the abnormal salary increase, as the Fiscal Council stated, that we are ultimately talking for years about how young people should be kept in Serbia, how doctors should be kept in Serbia, that they eventually get here, and their skills, form their families and that they can really live off their salaries in one dignified way, that they don't have to go abroad and that's actually the answer -- this increase that goes from eight to 15%. The most, as you can see, is according to the 73% health budget, the largest share of the salary increases for this sector. The vast majority of salary increases go for those parts, as you said, both for education and for part of culture, for those sectors that are vital to us. That's why we think it was a very good debate on the Finance Committee, that even the Fiscal Council has confirmed that this budget is not pre-election, it's a development budget, and it's actually a recognition that we've done a very good job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-20-0.u63900	Thank you. The People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-20-0.u63901	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, every year this government submits to us a draft budget in which it plans a budget deficit in advance, and then somewhere from the half of the budget year it starts to brag about achieving surpluses, surpluses in the budget. It is on one side for commendation, but when it's extremely professionally observed and not. The able government is a government and a capable minister capable of calculating it to the last dinar. That's how much it's possible to charge, and that's how much it takes. So I'd like to invite you from this budget to start with balanced items, to abandon this deficit, and you don't need any more praise to have a surplus. If there's a budget surplus, the truth is, some say it's the extra head or the pain. That's not quite true, because if we have a budget surplus, then some economic operators have been taken away more than they should have. It's at the expense of production. I don't mind if the budget surplus is achieved in the customs sector, I'd look forward to it, but if it's a salary tax, if it's a income tax, etc., then it's already a dangerous category. The smartest one is the government that has a balanced budget and which at the end of the year boasts – here, we spent as much as planned in the dinar. Furthermore, there was no need for you to do this. This is what I see as some kind of exhibitionism of yours, prime minister and minister, finance minister, above all, because you could eliminate this budget deficit. You've also programmed nine billion dinars this year for NGOs. You cut that a little bit compared to last year, one billion, a little bit more than one billion. It's a good thing you cut it down, and yet it's too much. NGOs are organizations with whose formation the government has nothing to do with. Their activities should be financed by voluntary contributions from their members and sympathisers, not by the government to finance them, and by the government towing them, and by those fees from the Western embassies... . I turned it off, and again. I don't know how to handle a new phone. The police are after me, yes. So, the first savings can be achieved here, and then the deficit is 33m euros, and the ministry in which Minister Zoran Mihajlovic pays one share of the highway, from Cačka to Pojat, 300m euros more than was the Chinese offer. Nicely, take down what she made as a contract, a pre-negotiation, which had already occurred, so call a competition without privileged participants, don't bring in a Lex specialis, so that you only have one painted participant in the law, that no one else could apply. I have something to commend you for. I'm an objective man. I know the whole government like that. Isn't that right, Minister Sarcevic? That's right. This is where you managed to achieve something I didn't expect. You managed to cut out the full pension budget to 157 billion or 11.8% of total budget expenditure. In the plan, the 2012 budget project was planned for 273 billion dinars. So you're down here by more than half, which means the pension fund's starting to charge, which means it's a better pension payment. Now I'm boasting, I wasn't kidding. I would never mess with ministers, Minister Mali. There is a larger number of employees and a more orderly collection of contributions, because we had a lot of companies where there was no possible payment of contributions, where workers received a minimumer or did not receive anything, and the contributions were not paid. That's what's good. You have a huge budget savings here, because now you've reduced donations from the pension budget to 15% of total income, and before that was more than 26%. That's where I commend you. However, one thing you lose sight of, the pensioners accepted, such silences, someone crouched, someone protested a little, most of them kept quiet and thought it was the right thing to do. And I'm that pensioner you took away from the pension of 5,000 dinars, but I squeezed my teeth, so I ate a little more turkeys and acidic milk than meat, sort of lasted. It's gotta get back to the pensioners sometime. You return to the rotten capitalists who have been rich in delivering sand to the Serbian army in flour for bread, you make up for their property after so many decades, and what has been taken from the pensioners recently of their acquired rights you do not intend to repay. Don't play around, they'll drive it all out in front of the European Court of Human Rights. I don't mind leaving that court if it is possible to do so without leaving the Council of Europe, and I don't think it is, that membership in the Council of Europe is about membership in that court. They'll exorcise it, so we'll pay both the court fees and the costs of their lawyers and interest. Fine, come out with a decision, with the law to make it up to four years of war. Let it begin from this year 2020 or 2021 and guarantee one quarter of every year that it will be compensated. It'll calm the pensioners, because pensioners don't want harm to the state. They want her well, and the state has to be aware of those obligations. The state delivered huge properties to unknown heroes from America, Canada, other overseas countries, who do not even know the Serbian language. They heard their grandfather and grandfather used to have something here, so let's drive it back. Some were bribed to get, some were like this, some were like that. In the end, here, the whole job is done. But as I am also reading the newspaper, the president of the Restitution Agency's Committee, Strahinja Sekulic, boasts that almost everything is over, as far as the real estate is concerned, but that there are about 13.5 billion euros left to pay for the full compensation. So this should be in money, you don't have that money. You've previously formed a Fund, or a government before you, some of the Dossmanian governments. I don't know how much money has accumulated in that fund, that's not what you're telling us, but if there's not enough money in that fund, it's going to have to come out of the budget. Is that fair? Is it just something that is a historical crime to pay off our pensioners now, workers at the expense of unemployed pregnant women, children and so on? No, it's not. It's especially not that you're preparing a law to take away property from anyone who can't prove how they acquired it. I hope that's where we'd go from Tomislav Nikolic, right? Is that the unanimous position of the government? How if you do not start from him, you would probably throw your pride and dignity under your feet if you took any property without confiscating Tomislav Nikolic first. Isn't that right, my favorite prime minister? Yeah, okay. So now you're going to take away property that has no proof of origin, and is there one that you're returning evidence of origin? Do the Karadzics have proof of origin? When King Peter came to Serbia in 1903, he didn't have three centipedes in his pocket. Where did they get it? By embezzlement, by paying commissions, they affected the conclusion of credit tranches, i.e. crediting various public and private investments, and took the commission. It was the basic way not only of him, but of the entire dynasty and of the prince of Paul, you were also something of the Prince Arsen who must have had an inheritance in Russia and inherited something, but he gained the most when he became the first regent, after the death of Alexander, and you would have easily returned it. One thing you didn't know, admit, is that King Alexander kidnapped more churches than communists, property above all, agricultural land, forest. It is now returned to religious communities, according to your Sekulic, 98%, but the religious communities are still yoguns, not all returned. They'll ask you to return what King Alexander took. They won't pay taxes. The church also has to pay taxes like everyone else for business facilities, for agricultural land, for forest, for participation in construction works, for sale of apartments on the market, etc. We also have able priests for business, starting with the bishop Gregory and beyond, which God never cared about, but just -- just get as much as possible. Taxes must only be released from sacral facilities and sacral activities, including, behold, the salaries of religious staff, and everything else must be equal, according to the Constitution, because the church has the status of autonomous corporations. Therefore, it is subject to the Constitution, not subject to all laws, those laws that violate its basic function, therefore, do not apply to it, but those laws which ensure equality within the legal order apply. Stop this return, what's done is done, it can't be fixed, and use this fund nicely to restore the first tranche of what was taken from the pensioners, because there will be a new government in 10, 15, 20 years, so it will bring the law to repay the property to those to whom you kidnap, tycoons, diverse. What you're preparing, what you've announced, is both against the legal order. You have to prove that someone has acquired property by criminal act, and then you take it away from him, and no, no, no, you have, you have to prove it. He is not obliged to prove it, you prove it, and go from Tomislav Nikolic. You have announced here that you will be in charge of 5.1 billion euros, it is justified what you intend to invest in, but it is not well calculated, starting with the Cačak-Pojate highway, you pay 300 million more than you should. You can also review all other contracts, whether it's made in real terms, or if someone's been embezzling. You know that you also have in your ranks ministers who are being built in, so, Zorana Mihajlović, I knew that they won't come today, something's been telling me all morning, it's been making me nervous, and I wish she had come. So, in order for you to be able to create a good basis for the government's work for next year, not this one, but the next one, who knows what will be next, who knows which one of you will stay in those beautiful benches there, I'd like you all to leave the government, and that the Serbian radicals will possess it. It's not real in this election, but in the next election, we'll see. About this borrowing, you would have to publish a full list of duties as soon as possible, so in "Politice" for example. Because you're the owners there, which are old debts. There are other fools who say that it was a good life in Tito's day, and that's when the future of our children and our grandchildren was eaten, and Tito's debts are still coming back. Even those Kuwaiti bonds that nobody knew about in the leadership of the state until Tito gave up, it took Tito about $400, 500 million, or even 800, to take to Cuba to bribe the leaders of unclassified countries to be for him, not Castro, because Castro was all prepared to bring the "Move of Unsettled", the Soviet Union. That's how Tito spent his money. You see, a lot of people worry about it, while Joanka was alive, if she's going to get anything from the inheritance, if she's going to get it. He has no property, everything he had heisted from the state, and what gold was in the inheritance, which some state officials also robbed, he seized in the villas of Karadjordjevic. So nothing's his, and he's never been paid. So he didn't get anything. Lived on the state's expense and lived counting on him never to give up. Gentlemen Ministers, there are some other things that may seem petty, but it will be my colleagues from the SRS to discuss in detail in a later debate, since I am at the end of these 20 minutes, and I know why you didn't want to double them, as well as the rest of the debate, I would like to make a few remarks to you again on some budget lines. Here's where my soul hurts, is the Ministry of Sports and Youth planning to hold the "Exit" 30 million dinars, 30 million, Minister? It's a shame to give that kind of money to those junkies who come in there for five, six days, they go out, and they leave the dump behind. And that's not all, you're not only giving it, but the tourism ministry is giving 35 million, even more, 65 million in five days' "Exit", and the government of Vojvodina is still giving it out of the province budget, and the town of Novi Sad out of its budget, it's over 100 million. That's what Majo should know how much he gets out. And how much does "Serb Mother" get? Matica Srpska gets 51 million each year, Matica Srpska, for a year's work, to maintain Serbian cultural goods for publishing books, its magazine, Letopis, for all other activities. Now that you have sent a letter to the Serbian government, Anna, to enable the UN tribunal to confiscate all my books, they have refused because they hold to the dignity of "Mother". Are you punishing them for that? If this isn't punishment because they rejected you, and they won't deliver my books to The Hague tribunal, then double this amount immediately, don't let it remain on your mind, that it remains as something extremely negative to you, and it didn't have to be. Or, the Serbian Academy, only 370 million a year. There are academics I wouldn't give a dinar, who came there by force, Kostic, this president, no fundamental science, all his life he's been dealing with Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's, and for the past 30 years, world medicine has not been a single step forward in treating these diseases. He wasted his life. Or, this traffic engineer, Dusan Teodorovic, who does science? I hope to have a chance to make a little peace with our dear Prime Minister on these matters.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-20-0.u63902	Thank you. You've spent time scheduled for an authorized parliamentary group. Word, he's got... Anna? You wanted to? I have to delete the list so you know. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-20-0.u63903	Erase what?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-20-0.u63904	A list of those who called. The word has an Ana Brnabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-20-0.u63905	You've started a lot of issues, and I won't answer everything if you don't mind, because there are some things that don't even have an argument. We can agree or disagree on how we plan to invest money from the budget, but the most important things. As for deficits and surpluses, I have to say, in principle, I agree with you and I can tell you that I've been agreeing with you on a lot of issues lately, so I've started to fear for myself. But yes, you're right about the deficit and the surplus. But there are at least two things that matter to me, and perhaps the minister will add. First of all, it is important for us to conservatively design incomes, because we are somehow a country that still clearly and vividly remembers those huge deficits, economic declines, economic declines, and how difficult it is to face a country that is on the brink of bankruptcy. From all these things, I think it's natural for you to plan for a long, long time after that, even though it's now the third year with a surplus in the budget, a stable budget, all the good indicators, that you're conservatively planning, because, as our people would say, who once burns to the cold. So you're conservatively planning, if you do better well, but at no point do you threaten your hard-earned, as I said, fiscal stability, macroeconomic stability, and any way you threaten the future of those who come after you, but leave them with something, some of the basics that they will be able to continue building on. And it's also true, so it's not -- we're designing it now, and we actually know that we're going to have a surplus, but it's true that over the year, we're doing, for now, thank God, even better results than we thought when we predicted the budget. So much better results and in the inflow of foreign direct investment, which is certainly reflected in the budget, hence better results and employment growth, better results in the collection of income. It all says that the recovery of our economy is better, faster than anyone would expect. I think that all other international organisations, relevant types and the World Bank and the IMF and the World Economic Forum bear witness to all of this, and ultimately here also various activities of the association, the type of advice of the party – investors. So we certainly get better results and we have surpluses, not deficits. I think that in the years ahead of us, we're going to have some mild deficit, which in any case won't endanger any fiscal stability. As far as pensions are concerned, since this is really important to us, well, honourable MP, I disagree with you that someone has left you completely unreal pensions, politically high, in the hope that in this way they will win some elections and that you should pay pensions that are completely unrealistic and are not in line with any economic parameters in that country, or growth in profit, or growth in economy, or inflation, or anything else, so I don't believe there's any court in the world that will say that you have to, just because someone made a political promise, and that's exactly what happened. I'll say it again here, I've said it several times, but then I remember how surprised I was as an ordinary citizen of this country what was going on. So in 2008, pensions increased four times over the course of one year, broke all economic parameters, made a huge hole in the budget, when in synergy with some other completely wrong decisions, changing the Law on Planning and Construction, which destroyed our economy, our construction industry, the construction industry pulled everyone into this ambition. So, you can't say that since someone made a political decision, that four times increase pensions, that you have to pay it further, then you have to pay off on that basis. It's just not real. The next year, the election is with us, I say, and that's when I've finished my presentation, and I'm proud that our budget that you have today is not electoral, but developmental. We've increased the pensions 5.4%, which is completely realistic. We tried to somehow give as many pensioners as possible, not endangering stability. Imagine now that we have political and populist decisions and to say – you know what, now let's break down on salaries and pensions, make sure we win the elections and who cares what happens by the end of 2020 and what happens in 2021 and how it will be covered. Imagine now that we said -- well, let's increase pensions, that the average pension in Serbia is 1,000 euros. We'd all say hello, great, great! But where, People's MP, from, like, 1,000 euros? How are we supposed to pay? So what you're trying to tell me is that someone comes in and says -- it's impossible to pay those 1,000 euros, let's cut on real grounds, give these real pensions, make sure that they're the biggest possible, but that we can really pay them, that they're sustainable, that the economy can pay them, that the economy can handle them, that the economy can handle them, so that they're not late, that we can really pay those pensions. Well, you'd have to cut them down, because it's unsustainable. So, if you have a populist decision in 2008, to four times increase pensions, you can't criticise someone who's responsible enough to say -- people, we can't do anything else, but bring this to some real base, taking care of the most vulnerable categories, that is, those with the smallest pensions, because those with the smallest pensions, or pensions below 25,000 dinars, have never reduced pensions and we promise you and you will see that we will be responsible and we will pay it back. These pensions are much higher today, but they're on real ground, they're not late for a single day, the state can pay them off, the economy can handle them, and it all goes the way up. So I absolutely disagree that when someone makes a political decision and on political grounds increases pensions just to win the elections, not to worry about what it means for the future of a country, that each of the next governments must be managed by these political decisions, it must be on an economic basis. The pensioners, once again, thank you, because they have really put up with the most difficult burden of fiscal consolidation reforms. But at the end of the day, it seems to me that we have shown that we have had the money in a responsible way, that we courageously entered into reforms and that all this was going back and I said - I am particularly glad that we are giving 5.4% of our pensions from January 1, 2020, and of course we are planning this one-time support to the pensioners and we will give it whenever we can, because it is also coming back to our budget and into our economy. Third thing, the price of the Moravia Corridor. So you're really smart enough and professional enough to know that it's not exactly like that, so the price of the Moravia Corridor, and maybe we made a mistake at the beginning, not only includes the price of the highway, but also includes two other extremely demanding and expensive components. One is the regulation of West Moravia, which is included in the price of the highway, but deals with some other things that are necessary for that highway. It's not asphalt, concrete and works that go on the highway. So, regulation of West Morava and the second is digital infrastructure, and that will also be the first digital corridor in Serbia, which means exactly what I've been saying, that the people of Trstenik, Vranjska Banje, Kraljeva, Čačka and Kruševec will have perhaps a better and more modern digital infrastructure than is present in Belgrade and Novi Sad. This will help us to bring even stronger investors, investors who will invest in development centres, research centres and that young people remain in those environments. So that includes plus the highway, so the final price includes three important, significant components that you're looking at through only one highway. For everything else, NGOs, restitution, etc., restitution is for me a question of what you inherited from one side, and we have inherited both laws and processes and because I deeply believe that when you inherit some things on the subject of the law, you have to respect them. The other thing is that we, as a state, must give a clear signal that the property in Serbia is invulnerable. The people who applied for the restitution had to prove it was their property, and I'm not going to go into how they acquired that property because it's been so many decades, and it's been centuries that I don't get into it, but they had to show it was their property. In every normal state, I'm sure you'll agree with me in this, life, freedom and property are unhurtful and we've had to do it. As far as NGOs are concerned, it's the support of civil society. You and I disagree on supporting civil society, but here you are certainly going to do this budget differently when you have a chance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-20-0.u63906	Thank you. The People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-20-0.u63907	First of all, you're talking about political decisions. The problem is that those decisions have been translated into law. When someone gets legal right, you can say I'd give it to you, but I don't, and he says, well, I'll wait when you have it, so come on. He can't do it any other way. Those who were in power, those 2008 hohstuplers, who, with their hat and fist, broke up to stay a few nights longer in power, they must have gone to the dump site of history. Secondly, as far as NGOs are concerned, who is this civil society? I guess we're all civil society until we put on a uniform. These are organizations that have two, three members enrolled, and one only spends money. Third, I had another piece of information here that I wanted to comment on for VAT collection. Here you have stated that domestic goods are expected to charge only 10.6% and imports of 89.4%. If this means that domestic goods are missing, so everything has to be imported, then it's a disaster. If it means that you've sharpened a little bit and decided to break the back of the import lobby, so that VAT is charged immediately at the border crossing and there's no turning back, then it's okay and I support it, but I don't know what's behind these numbers? You see now, you're taking it lightly from that so-called. international communities, so you put me on the list of international terrorists. That's what your government put my name on the list. I have no right to open a foreign bank account. When I wanted to buy a house in the Khrtkovci, I couldn't, so my son had to.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-20-0.u63908	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-20-0.u63909	Well, I have to finish, Maya. A little tolerance.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-20-0.u63910	Please very briefly.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-20-0.u63911	You can say no to those 15 minutes later, but let me say this. Am I really a terrorist in your government's opinion, that's what I'm interested in? Second, why do you slave to them? As you can declare legalization of illegal construction, you can also declare the legalization of illegal property and even money. Set a deadline, set a bank. The best thing for you is the Post Office, because it's state-owned. Call everyone who has money hidden there on these exotic islands to bring money to Serbia, to legalize it with 5% commissions. The next day they have free money. They're your best investors, then. If you think otherwise you'll get that money back, you never will. Of all the criticisms of the draft budget I read in the press, the most serious is that it does not count on many domestic investors.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-20-0.u63912	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-20-0.u63913	In this case, we'd have a lot of domestic investors. Let them pay you back.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-20-0.u63914	Thank you, MP. He really can't take it anymore. Regardless of my great flexibility, I can't extend your replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-20-0.u63915	Oh, you couldn't resist me, Maya.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-20-0.u63916	The word has the People's MP Ana Karadzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-20-0.u63917	Thank you. President-in-Office, Mrs Brnabic, respected ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, stands before us today the draft budget law, the proposal of the most important law of the year, because it represents a detailed and thorough analysis of what we did and did in the previous year, how we treated the funds from the budget and through this we got a picture of how the Republic's register should look in the following year. As you have stated, the 2020 budget is not an election, it is a developmental one. The total revenues of 1.314.5 billion dinars, expenditures of 1.334.7 billion dinars are projected, which is the figure that the total deficit is 20.2 billion dinars and 0.3% of GDP, respectively. It is very important to point out that this projection is indeed conservative, based on realistic macroeconomic indicators. Real growth of 4% was projected. In this respect, I would like to express my satisfaction with the positive comment of the Fiscal Council, which confirms that the funds are well allocated in terms of deficits, as regards the fall in public debt, in terms of income and expenditure, that the planned surplus will surely be achieved, and that the planned surplus should be used for capital investments. The budget shows that the government of the Republic of Serbia has worked effectively and we can really boast. The key feature of budgetary policy is the even distribution of fiscal space to raising the standard of living, starting with wages, over pensions, and then increasing public investment and tax redundancies when we talk about reducing the contribution of PIO to the employer's burden to increase employment. In previous years, Serbia was in the fiscal consolidation process. We all remember in 2014, when we had to start a process of reforms that were painful and difficult and that prevented the country from entering bankruptcy. The highest price was paid by Serbian citizens, paid by pensioners, who accepted it as their burden and allowed us to live better and better today. We're grateful to them for that. This budget concludes the cycle, the consolidation of public finances ends and we enter a new investment cycle. Unemployment today is 10.3%. Compared to the previous 25, you'll agree that's a great result. The budget includes a surplus of 60 billion dinars and a deficit of 0.3%. I can freely and happily point out that I am convinced that this draft budget law is turned to an ordinary man and not only left-handed people sitting in this parliament, but I believe that everyone who loves and works for the benefit of Serbia's citizens will vote with him. The parameters ahead of us today and the projections we have for 2020 are the progress we have made over the last five years. Thanks to the 2019 results, a fiscal space has been created that can be used in 2020 for capital investment, for removing crisis measures in public sector wages, for increasing pensions and wages, for single-aid aids, but what we are looking forward to is that the minimum labour price will be increased again by 3,000 dinars, and we heard today and the prime minister that this will happen again in some subsequent period. This is the fifth salary increase. If we go back to 2014 they were reduced by 10%. If we look cumulatively at the last five years, they've been up 40%, which means that today's wages are higher than they've ever been. Public sector wages will exceed 500 promised euros in December. Pensions will be increased by 5.4% since January 2020, as we heard, which again indicates that this budget is definitely not a pre-election, electoral budget, but is exclusively a development budget. When we talk about public public investment, we are talking about 260 billion dinar figures, which primarily covers the construction of the Moravia Corridor, very important for the citizens of Čačka, Trstenik, Valjev, Kruševac and so on. The government of the Republic of Serbia is trying equally to commit itself to each part of Serbia. Also, we need to encourage a reduction in the burden on earnings, encourage new employment and finally bring unemployment below 10%. We from the Socialist Movement support this draft Budget Law, because we see that it is primarily addressed to people. And if we look back at the period when the President of the Socialist Movement, Alexander Vulin, was Minister of Labour and President Vukic Prime Minister, we will remember a sentence that is often repeated and not only a dead letter on paper, but evidence that leftist parties are always fighting for those who need help most. This sentence reads: “In a period of savings, not one single dinar of social contributions has been reduced. ” It really is. We are also pleased to hear today from the prime minister that she mentioned that in 2020, the final production of social cards will be realised which are the best way to target all those who need help most. This idea was conceived during Alexander Vulin's term at the head of the Ministry of Labour and we as the Socialist Movement are extremely supportive, because the social map and e-social are the best ways to use the existing budget as effectively as possible in the fight against poverty. If we look at today and the draft budget of the Ministry of Labour, we see that it has a growing trend. The budget is 127.1 billion dinars, which is 12.3 billion dinars higher than the 2019 initial plan. This is primarily provided in the area of protection for families and children, i.e. 1.9 billion dinars were identified more than for 2019 in this area. Also, large funds are allocated to support the work of fosterers and to increase employees' salaries in social protection institutions. So what I said at the beginning, this budget represents taking care of people and people are first. When we talk about employment policy, 150 million dinars have also been allocated here for the retraining of unemployed persons in the Information and Communication Technology Sector. People's concern for Socialist Movement President Alexander Vulin continued as head of the Ministry of Defence. If we just remember what the Serbian army looked like from 2000 to 2012, it was planically destroyed because they said we had no enemies, we don't need an army, we don't need to live in peace, and it looks like they slept through NATO aggression in 1999. Under that pretext that we don't have any enemies, they destroyed the tanks and the hoodies and it was all melted in the Smederovo Irons. Serbia's army was completely naked. From 2012 to today, it has been working to improve the situation in the Ministry of Defence, mostly on the equipment and modernisation of the military, as well as on increasing the standards of members of the military and security forces. For the Ministry of Defence from year to year, increasing funds have been allocated to the last five years. The defence ministry's budget was 52.8 billion dinars in 2016, and the proposal for 2020 is 91.3 billion dinars. For the last three years, Minister Vulin, as defence minister, continued the policy of recovery of the military, which President Vukic began. The budget of 830m euros was planned and implemented to obtain state-of-the-art weapons, helicopters, MiGs, missile PSCs, but also to remount and maintain existing military equipment. Serbia advocates and implements an effective policy of military neutrality. This requires active equipment and modernisation of units for peace and security of citizens, everyday training, both on domestic and multinational grounds. One country cannot be militaryly neutral unless it is militaryly developed and strong. The funds that have been invested since 2017 have been made possible to invest in dedicated production. Exports are fueled in millions of dollars. First of all, it is possible to develop a domestic economy, which is the key objective of this budget. In 2018 alone, the defence industry achieved $600 million in exports. As I mentioned, the budget from previous years was invested in the purchase of weapons. But what brings us special joy from the Socialist Movement is that the essence of this policy and this budget is precisely that it is made by people, members of the Army and security forces. Materially improved their position, by 10% the salary increased in 2018, by 9% in January 2019, was also increased in November this year. Nearly 2,000 solidarity aids have been realised for children, a large number of settled housing issues in the territory of the entire Republic of Serbia. Large funds have also been invested in medical institutions, so that both civilian and military faces are treated with modern medical devices. No military school has been neglected, where all levels of education have been invested, started since military high school. The bill plans a budget of 91.3 billion, i.e. 92.4 billion, with income and income. This is 2.4 billion less than 2019, but what's important, I must stress, it's not about the substantial budget cuts, but the budget is reduced because VAT has been abolished on imports of good special purposes. When we talk about the structure of the funds in the defence ministry's budget itself, personal expenditures take part with nominal 47, 4, which confirms the fact that, apart from the developmental budget, this has an extremely social character, which is primarily an increase in salaries and an improvement in the position of members of the Serbian Army. As we have said, Serbia's government has provided an increase in salaries since 1 November 2019 and Serbia's defence ministry and military will increase by 9%. We also noted that, cumulatively observed since 2014, wages have been raised by 40%, so the conclusion is that the reforms implemented have been successful and that the effort has paid off. Army members are taken care of in each sector, salaries and pilots and airmen have been increased and on-call fees for military-health institutions have been increased. In 2020, besides caring for people, it is also investing in modernising and obtaining weapons, both from the Serbian defence industry and abroad worth 25.4 billion dinars and military facilities worth 1.2 billion dinars, which also helps us maintain this policy, to maintain military neutrality policy. The trend in Serbia's military development continues year after year. Serbia's army will grow stronger. Serbia headed by President Aleksandar Vukic will never be more peaceful and secure. As we have already said, the budget is not electoral and we have seen from all of this that it is exclusively developmental. The PS-NSS-USS parliamentary group in voting day will support this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-20-0.u63918	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Zoltan Peck. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-20-0.u63919	Thank you. Dear Vice-President, Mr. Prime Minister, honourable members of the government, honourable Members of the People's Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, I will present the position of the SVM parliamentary group on the proposal for a law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2020. The bill envisions total revenues of 1,314 billion dinars, increasing from 1.7% to the amount foreseen by the 2019 rebalancing and expenditure of 1.334 billion dinars, which gives a deficit of 20.2 billion dinars and 0.3% of GDP, respectively. Real growth of the economy of 4% was projected. The public debt projection is 50.3% of GDP. The revenue and expenditure side of the budget is conservatively and realistically planned. It should be pointed out that in the last three years, we have a surplus in our budget. Since both revenues and expenditures for 2020 are realistically planned, we expect to have the same surplus next year. One of the key characteristics of budgetary policy in 2020 is the even distribution of fiscal space to increase living standards based on salary increases and pensions by around 1.3% of GDP, based on an increase in the minimum labour price. The draft budget singled out 247 billion dinars for salaries, as well as 158 billion dinars for pensions. Pensions will grow by 5.4% next year according to the so-called Swiss formula. An increase in the untaxed part of gross earnings to 16300 dinars was planned, while reducing the rate of PIO contribution to the employer's burden from 12% to 11.5%. The loss of state revenues based on these measures in 2020 is estimated at around 13 billion dinars, while the effect on the fiscal score will be 10 billion dinars, as the mass of profits at the general state level on this basis will be less by three billion dinars. Another key feature is the incentive for the economic growth of this budget. This is achieved by increasing public investment and by discharging the economy by reducing the burden on profits. It abolishes legislation that has so far been set for local self-government and public enterprises to invest part of the fund of earnings in the Republic of Serbia's budget. In public investments, the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport and Capital Investment Infrastructure stands out about 70 billion dinars, mostly on capital projects to build highways and railway infrastructures. When it comes to infrastructure, funds were allocated for the Moravian Corridor, for the Frukogorski Corridor, for building the Belgrade-Sarajevo highway, for the construction of the Ruma-Shabac-Loznica road, for Obrenovac-Ljig stock, for the Surcin-Obrenovac shares, Novi Sad-Surcin, for the Belgrade bypass, for the fast traffic of Novi Sad-Rum, for the Hungarian-Serbian railway project, as well as for the reconstruction of the Nis-Dimitrovgrad railway line. We have 13 new projects in the context of capital investment, which are set aside about 525 million dinars. It should be noted, in a positive sense, that there has been an increase in funds for the Ministry of Environment, to 7.9 billion dinars, which is 27.6%. The majority of the 4.3 billion dinar funds are in the green fund, of which 3.1 billion dinars are for re-use and waste use subsidies. We also positively estimate that there has been an increase in resources from the Ministry of Health. I would point out here that there is an increase in the amount of funds to treat rare diseases to 2.4 billion dinars. The funds for investment in education and innovation have also been increased. In support of science development, the Fund for Science has doubled to a billion dinars. For the development of the innovation structure, funds were provided for the closure of the Data Centre in Kragujevac, as well as funds for the completion of scientific and technological parks in Nis and Novi Sad. As far as agriculture, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management is concerned, some 52 billion dinars are foreseen, accounting for around 46% of the total tax revenues of the Republic of Serbia. 4.5 billion dinars were allocated for subsidies. For AP Vojvodina's funds, 76.5 billion dinars were allocated in this budget. Transfers for occasional jobs are 47 billion, and funds for capital expenditure are 29 billion dinars. The SVM parliamentary group analyses the proposal for the Republic of Serbia's 2020 budget through two perspectives – one budget item, the sums defined for concrete projects for next year, and the second perspective is the four-year context, therefore, an analysis of the achievements in certain areas for the period from 2016 to 2020. We cannot understand the draft budget for next year without an analysis previously done, given the complex economic, social and political circumstances in which these projects were implemented. Hence, the SVM parliamentary group analyses the draft budget, following the progress made, especially in areas defined by the August 2016 coalition agreement between SVM and SNS. For the SVM parliamentary group, the key word is continuity in co-operation and support for the realisation of Vojvodina capital projects. In the sense that on 28 October 2016 the National Assembly announced then Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic that the government would invest in 118 buildings in Vojvodina 1,790,000,000 dinars. Time has shown, and figures confirm, that in the past three and a half years, regional development, infrastructure improvement and capital investments in the AP Vojvodina have been continuously allocated through budget items. We recall that certain capital investments and development projects that exceed local importance are included among the priorities of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. For example, 15 billion are planned for the Hungarian-Serbian railway project in 2020. The 2021 projection is 23 billion and 31 billion dinars for 2022. We remind you that nine billion dinars were allocated for the Hungarian-Serbian railway project in 2019, in 2018, eight billion, almost ten times the amount of 850 million dinars, as scheduled in 2017. Also, the national public railway infrastructure programme for the period 2017 to 2021 included reconstruction and modernisation of the Subotica-Segedin-Baja railway line, as I said, Budapest-Beograd and Subotica-Pančevo. About a million dinars are foreseen in the budget for reconstruction and modernisation of the Subotica-Segedin railway line, and more importantly, it is planned for 2021 million for 2022 million dinars for next year. In Vojvodina for the last year and a half since 2018, 129km of regional railways have been reconstructed. The reconstruction is under way another 67km, and an additional 15.5km is expected by the end of the year. The value of these works is about 92m euros. I need to look back at the border crossings. Three border crossings have been opened since 2016. One was Rastina – Bachsentđerđ, opened on 3 April 2018, the second opened a reconstructed crossing at Baimok, Bacalmas, on 7 February this year and the third one was opened at Raba - Kibekhaza, opened on 11 October this year. For the SVM parliamentary group, it is of particular importance that the Serbian government will continue to finance two of the largest Saturday capital investments in the construction of the National Theatre and the Kelebija border crossing, the Subotica-South loop known as the "Y Krak". It is a decades-long project known as the "Y Krak", to be completed at the end of this year. The draft budget for 2020 has planned 500m dinars to build two overpasses. It should be noted that in 2019, a billion and 400 million dinars were allocated, with a rebalancing added to 330 million dinars, totaling a billion and 730 million dinars this year. As I said, for next year, the 2020 budget, another 500 million was planned. These pairs will build two overpasses, which are promised to farmers, so that they can reach their fields as easily as possible. One overpass will be on the Packer Road, and the other overpass will be on the Kelebian Maycuck Road. As for the National Theatre project, 400 million are foreseen for further construction of the National Theatre in the 2020 budget. The most important thing is that the project continues to be funded. For this 400 million and this 400 million... In the last four years, 8.9m euros have been provided for this project. The project was expected to be completed in the first half of 2020, but official information noted that the ministry of approved money required at least one phase, one functional continent at the National Theatre, to be completed in the following year. That would mean you could use at least one of the projected three halls. I would also single out another project, which is Palic – Aqua Park. For the development of Palic, as a tourist destination, the funds for funding projects envisaged by the Strategy for Development of Tourism of the Republic of Serbia and the accompanying action plan have been continuously provided. Ten million dinars are planned for 2020 in the budget. The same sum was defined in 2017, 2018 and 2019. In addition to these capital investments, I need to highlight several more significant investments that are foreseen in the AP Vojvodina, such as fast first-b-row traffickers Novi Sad – Ruma, that is about 200 million dinars, then construction of a water treatment plant in Kikinda of 60 million dinars, as well as a new project to improve the conditions for ship translation within the Tisa dam near Novi Becej. The same is foreseen here for 60 million dinars, as foreseen for the new reconstruction and upgrade of the Horgos border crossing. Of course, the construction of the Belgrade-Zrenjanin highway should be highlighted. In the end, I left the farm. As for agriculture, as I said, the ministry has 52 billion dinars, of which 4.5 billion dinars are subsidies, and the amount of subsidies for AP Vojvodina is nine billion dinars. In the voting day, the SVM parliamentary group will vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-20-0.u63920	Thank you. The word is by MP Dusan Bajatovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-20-0.u63921	Dear Ministers, dear colleagues, I would just like to say on behalf of Mr Dragan Markovic Palma, our coalition partner, that he had to go and lay down some cornerstone, because he thought it would not take two hours to determine the agenda. He says it's patriotism. I delivered his message, and his colleagues, MPs from Unity Serbia, will take advantage of that part. I see colleagues have already begun to deal with numbers. I think it's a consideration for details. I'd like to deal with some things, a little history, and some things where I think we should be proud of this government since 2012. We all forgot that the state was, but indeed, robbed, not only in the budget, but also in the robbery privatisation, the destroyed industry, in a banking system that doesn't belong to Serbian capital and all these other things -- high interest rates, large debts, maltenes to a bankrupted state. Last time in this same room, from the same place, we commented that the most important goal of the previous budget is to nail fiscal consolidation and no more interference, when it comes to fiscal consolidation, because fiscal consolidation is a condition for you to enter the development budget at all. This time it's done. So, this budget, no matter how much I understand it, Mr. Minister, that's what it represents, to say, surpluses in an absolutely conservatively planned budget, and in terms of spending on two things. There's one in raising wages and pensions, and I'd say in growing standards, so I'll go back to that. That's important, and on the other hand, you've increased investments from 220 to, I think, 260 billion, which means that part of the money... Yet with us, the government is the biggest employer, and we'll probably be like a small country with a relatively shallow economy, still, it's getting better, and the government will still be the biggest employer. There's a lot of investment coming up, so I'll come back to that later. I listened yesterday on our favorite N1 television dealing with justice and freedom, Governor Shoskovic. It says: no pay should be raised, because productivity has not grown. Of course, the government answered, or the government answered – wait, we gave it from the real money we saved. Foreign investment is good. They mock that we are champions, if they recognize it as "Vol Street Journal". In addition to 1.3 in Germany, which has 1,100 billion exports to what is real growth in Serbia, but is real growth in Serbia. It's not a real economic analysis. Last time we realized that foreign investments covered everything that was fiscal deficits. That was good. They're even bigger this year and they'll be even better, but what's the point? If you want to raise your internal GDP, I have two recommendations. One is that internal consumption must be increased. If you don't have a growth in consumption, you can't have a growth in social product. That's impossible. Maybe some of that money will go out because the structure of our industrial production isn't good, but okay if we buy some stove that was made in Germany, that's one thing, and I guess we bought those shorts, but the markets, most of the supermarkets contain Serbian goods. If we speed up the turnover of capital in the Serbian economy, raise what we invest in consumption, we can't go indefinitely, we're not Angela Merkel so we can broadcast a thousand billion euros when it's due to rise in consumption, so you buy a German TV, a German car. We don't have it, but we have what we have, and if I'm right, and I was counting, this is now from 9% for the public sector, and it will be followed by a minimum labour price in the private sector, and by the lack of quality people, there will be a growth of profits both in the private sector and without measure by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, all of this will raise internal consumption. Internal consumption should be as much as it can be. A little bit of ours has to be limited, so that growth cannot be unlimited, so it has to be controlled, it's packed up well, it's going to raise the level of citizens' standards, it's going to speed up money in the economy, first of all, in the service sector and in the trade sector, and that's going to have an impact on GDP on the other hand, Mr. Minister, I travel every day to Belgrade, that's my second proposal, the last two years have more trucks. I don't know if they're all taxed or not, but I know there's a traffic jam on the way. I understand we can be irrational to drive cars left and right, but I doubt anyone's driving empty trucks left and right. Interestingly, there are many Serbian license plates, not all Turkish, which means someone is doing our services. If you have an increase in this sector, my proposal would be, I would deal with it, although I know other services are doing it, some are within the Ministry of Finance, some are in general within the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I think a much bigger procedure can be done in the gray economy. Why? Because we may have tolerated it by now, because part of the population lives little and lives on that gray economy, so it doesn't need to be further povertyed, but the measure of the gray economy should be at a level of 10 percent, maybe 15% for transition countries, not 30% as I think the case is with us. Therefore, part of the reserve for better budgeting lies not only in these measures presented here, but also in the gray economy. So, these measures with public investment, which are described here, and I just want to comment on one more thing, I see great criticism that interstate arrangements are being made with Russia, China, Azerbaijan, Turkey, etc. So if anyone's bothered, let them bring in French, British and American investors. Although we have something of the American people who have also made, but the few who mention it, we need the result in building infrastructure, whether it's digital, travel, rail or gas, there's no forward. That's why I don't think we're still an EU member, driving us left-right, changing the rules. We should stick to our national interest, and our national interest in the conditions in which the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and I would say the Ministry of Finance, has provided, here I am now raising the loans, 1.7 to the balances we have. State at 1.25 on bonds. You know what it's called in the manager's economy? It's a waste of money. It's like someone gave you money on condition you know what you're investing in. At this point I see the state investing in infrastructure, I said why it should. I think on the next budget, because I don't see any major political changes in whatever happens, in terms of the ruling majority, we should think about a little bit more supporting domestic capital. I understand that all productions made in Serbia cannot be sufficient, everything produced in Serbia must have a regional character. Our relations with Croatia, although we have a surplus in CEFTA in exchange, but... (Mihailo Jokic throws. That's right, that's what I'm talking about. But all productions must be regional. You can't produce for some small market, you can make some, I don't know, Russian salad, some juices, etc. And that would be good. But what we're thinking, what we're investing in with small and medium capital because we don't have enough brands and large systems to connect to at this point, we're going to see how we're going to develop "Fiyat", we're going to see how the "Ling Long" develops further, we're going to see how these communicators develop, but I would love it very much, because we have insufficient factories, our agricultural production structure, Mr. Nedimovic, is the only criticism, respected Mr. Finance Minister, which I have, which is reduced by agriculture. There's a pure 3%, not much, for donations of those. That's what it says on that budget analysis, but it doesn't matter. Why am I talking about agriculture? The seed structure is bad. Our peasant is defined as traditional because he can't expect a profit. We didn't make the right Co-operation Act, we didn't stimulate that kind of farming association. If they don't know for themselves whether private capital or state itself is bound to bring together agricultural producers, to do that production the way we can export it, to have factories that make chocolates, to sow more tomatoes, peppers, cultures that have the next degree of processing. I welcome these quotas that we got for exporting meat to both Russia and Turkey, and it's all nice, but we kind of seem to be exporting that quality meat a little bit, and we import, I don't know how many inspectors there are, something less quality, but we should see that pig turned into that can of ham and then we take it out. It's something I see that with the help of appropriate incentives, and we see that behind the construction of infrastructure and digital projects, and this budget here -- it's going to have enough potential. I'll tell you why I think next year might be good. See the general government deficit – 0.5%. I mean, Mr. Minister, the general government deficit was never 0.5%. What does that mean? That, apart from stopping borrowing at the level of the Republic, or the Republic budget, we have stopped the incorrect spending of money in local self-governments that often do not like, but will give effect. If our general state is at 0.5% and the state is at 0.3%, we know for sure that there will be another, as they called it here in the Fiscal Council, a positive budget rebalance that we can focus on something that would call re-industrization. When it comes to re-industrialization, we all think we're going to make some big factories now. We don't have enough brands. We can team up with some medium or large producers so that within Serbia, we ourselves produce some things. So we have that potential. With this capital price that I'm sure of, since the eurobor is still negative, the Fed is not going to increase anything by the Americans anyway, we can expect this capital price with this bank rating for at least two to three years. If we know what we need to do and if the state has begun to deleverage and if there is a fall, if there is a recession – what are capitalists doing? What Rockefeller said - gentlemen, it is not time to create new capital, it is time to preserve it. All banks are high-literate, even those in Serbia. So you can get money if you have nice, well-planned investments. (Mihailo Jokic: Debt conversion. What? The conversion of debts, as far as I know, the ministry is tracking it, already doing it. We're reducing interest rates. The dollar, the euro is well structured in Serbia's public debt. I didn't mean to talk about it, but it can, if it has to. There's Mr. Minister. What else was I gonna say? This system that's not banking, which isn't really ours, I see it as a fast system. If you were to go to these businessmen who are still producing and exporting something and ask them a question – gentlemen, what would you like the state to do for you? Is there any way we can trade short-term expensive loans for long-term cheap ones, because there's no production in some quality where you can develop that story, and you actually have short-term capital that you don't know exactly how much it's going to cost you, and then they're having a hard time deciding on the risk? A lot of money stands for the uncertainty of investment in straws, it doesn't matter, we say so, whether it's by house or by bank, anyway. I have another remark. It's pretty common here, and I've seen, it's mostly those who are against the authorities, that the euro is depressed, that it's overrated. Our economy still doesn't allow for some measures where we could use what Orban did in Hungary, that little inflation, so we could iron out some debts, things, what the state would do for a few years, which is actually economically healthy. It recognizes economic theories. Why did we save the money like they did the forint if we didn't do it? But we need another year. The dollar we did more or less. We got the dollar at good prices, but not to comment on it. I comment that the existence of a domestic currency offers two things – that one part with the help of the NBS is uninflatably funded, and the other part that with the help of the domestic currency in fact cheape the financing of a particular fund of things, and thus even reduce the debt, and above all the internal debt to burn. The outsiders have to pay in foreign exchanges. I'd think, say, that way. One more thing, when it comes to this fiscal system, we should see, now the question is, I see our gold reserves growing, we're growing a quality currency, well-placed, hard in the euro, although that basket of currency is changing. We need to get into a position where banks that have extra liquidity don't go into repo operations and only work with NBS, that's that money back. They'd rather be placed, paid more to place funds in the economy. In the earlier period when we had these interest rates, which was spoken of by Mr. Mali, 6.5%, in dinar accounts 10%, 12%. Well, everyone's gone. But now that we are able to guard and we have shown for two, three years back that we are able to safeguard the relationship of the euro and the dinar, we should consider stimulating private capital that is not just going towards being stimulated by the state. I see here from 62 to 61, so the Fiscal Council says, it would be better if we went down to 58 in contributions. That's not the point. Give you a chance to get cheap, at least medium-term good capital. Any good businessman in Serbia, small and medium, will know how to use it. We're doing well around the service sector. We've got a piece on Banjian tourism. It'll go a little harder around the industry, but it can go into the processing industry segment when it comes to agricultural products. We could do this with these public works that are being carried out today, first of all by the Government of the Republic of Serbia with their partners, so may these Eastern contracts, at least they want to give a pair, and at least they don't have political requirements, and at their own cost capital is very tempting. Why there is an initiative 16 plus 1, now 17 plus 1, and only Serbia will be criticised. I don't see any reason for that. One good thing you said, Mr. Minister, from what I heard, I wasn't, unfortunately, even though I was a member of the Finance Committee. When we talk about this salary growth, you've increased your salary from 9.3 to 9.5, and the European average is, I think, about 11, or even more, in France 12 and change. We didn't do anything wrong. We actually did a good thing. We're going to increase internal consumption without disrupting fiscal stability, we're going to get a faster money twist, which in itself will give some effects. We'll have a better standard for the population. We can do it like that next time, step by step, we can't do it all at once. I was about to, although I had a minute and a half left, we don't have to spend it all... (Mihailo Jokic: One more thing, honey. ) I welcome the purchase of gold, I welcome the mix that was made in terms of currency, which today is much stronger and much better than it was, because some of the records of values that were previously added to the foreign reserves of the Republic of Serbia were not that quality that they are today. What I mean is, someone likes to say since 2012, my colleagues prefer to speak since 2014, however, we have good economic results, if we measure the point from which we started. We're not talking about democracy here, we're talking about creating conditions to really get into something called growth theory. Mr. Minister, you and I both know, when we cross the 550-euro salary, that supply and demand ratio in housing, investment and all, it's actually going to be the trigger for the first level of growth theory that will deliver excellent results, I hope in four years, if we implement such a policy. I'm like someone from the economy here, there's about 70 million Serbs, you know, we don't owe anyone anything, we've had 150 million ebids in the last three years. This is for what we call the Turkish Stream, we've got 22 miles left to weld, I think that's some result, it's going to be some developmental possibility, and thank you for supporting that species. I'm forbidden to ask for liquid liquidity, but it's not for investment. Congratulations to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I personally congratulate and Minister Sinishi Malo, above all for the results for the price of capital and for what has been done with banks, with the IMF and with the World Bank, the absence of political conditions and the price of capital that we will certainly have, at least for a period of two, three years and for the longer term of capital, which we hope to receive from domestic banks. I think that will be enough, with some support that the Government of the Republic can give additionally with its own measures.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-20-0.u63922	I thank my colleague, Bajatovic. Now, in accordance with Article 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby set a regular break of one hour and continue at 3 p.m.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-20-0.u63923	Dear MPs, we continue our work. The word has the People's MP Vojislav Vujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-20-0.u63924	Thank you, Your Honor. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at first I must convey to Mr. Minister the message of Dragan Markovic Palma, who is this morning, i.e. today was due to be the first to be authorised in front of the Single Serbia parliamentary group, but due to the very process of adopting the agenda, which lasted nearly two hours, it could not stay longer, for one simple reason, because today in Jagodina lays another cornerstone. So, Mr. Minister, I'm going to start by telling you that the Single Serbia parliamentary group is going to vote in favour of the draft budget and support everything that you're doing. What's good is that this budget arrived on time. And it's commendable. In an earlier period, we had a problem that the budgets were constantly delayed. What's even more to praise, which is that for the last three years in each budget, Mr. Minister, you've achieved a surplus, and I believe that this budget that's on the agenda today is going to be equal to these previous budgets, at least when it comes to surpluses. What you were planning, and that's good and it's domestic, that there's always a worse strategy, that maybe some deficit happens, you've shown it here, but knowing what you're doing and how you're doing, that this budget will certainly be achieved and that we'll get to the surplus this time too. I apologize, Mr. Minister, if you don't mind, just a little attention. I'm sorry I'm wasting my time, but I'm here to talk to you, my colleagues see you every day so I can go with them on any other subject. So what you've pointed out and what you insist on, that's two goals of this budget. The first goal is to increase living standards, the second goal is to accelerate economic growth. What is related to the first pillar, which is the standard of living, is certainly the growth of wages in the public sector, it is the calculation of pensions by the Swiss method of growth and what is for every praise, which is that in Serbia's history the minimum labour price has never been higher. When it comes to speeding up economic growth, only one of the things that matters and that dominates here, it is that in the past budget we have shown and realised 220 billion dinars planned for infrastructure. You planned 260 billion in this budget. What I want to praise, because I come from Vranjska Banja and will agree that it is one big chance for all of us from that region, but unfortunately, by the way, it is not every time and the condition that this corridor or highway or good infrastructure is enough to bring every investor. We have had an example before in Serbia, and in many other countries, of course, that not all the cities on the highway have equally exploited their potentials or used that good corridor. What is a good example, it is certainly the city of Jagodina, in which just because of the highway and primarily because of the good organisation of local self-government, one of the best industrial zones in Serbia was created. As a member of the Finance Committee, I had the opportunity to listen to Professor Pavel Petrovic who, as a rule, is such a job, they always have to criticise, I say - they are not critics, they, people, are critics and they are good critics. I'd be happy if we had here today and a wider block of opposition who would participate equally in adopting this budget and give some criticism, but I'm afraid if some critical mass were created on this right hand side, that it would primarily be critics, not those who have a desire to do something right. What Professor Petrovic said, and that is the only regret I have been able to hear on the Finance Committee, which is an opposition to the increase in wages in the public sector. And now as our people say - full of hungry people do not believe. What I know, which is that besides a number of agencies and gentlemen representing the Fiscal Council, they have pretty good personal incomes, they have more than you have ministers, and then it's easy to say from the position of a more comfortable life that it's not good to raise wages. What gives you the right to raise your wages is exactly the surplus I've been talking about, which you've been able to achieve here every time, and certainly for you to be free and the right to be given how that money is going to be spent. If the government of the Republic of Serbia has decided to raise salaries in the public sector, that means that total spending in our country will also increase. I certainly want to commend it in front of the Single Serbia parliamentary group. No criticism should be given to investing in the military or the police. It is true that in 2019 we may have had a record investment. You also planned to invest in the military and police significantly less in this budget for 2020 than in 2019, but simply, the environment in which we live makes us move like this. You would probably be happier if you could, as a finance minister in Switzerland, make a completely different budget, where all these funds would be more free to use them in other things, and I, personally as a Serbian citizen, would prefer to buy tractors and vans instead of planes and tanks, but unfortunately, we live in such an environment that, besides a strong economy, you have to have strong defences to have some independence. Serbia has just defined itself as going along such a path, that we did not want to support either the left, the right, or the ones in the front, or the ones in the back, and we wanted to preserve some of our dignity, and I think the state has succeeded in that. It's an instinct to invest in environmental science. That's what you said yesterday, and you can see it in this budget. What is commendable is that in the coming period local self-government and cities will be tasked with focusing on dumps, focusing on municipal waste, sewers, water treatment collectors. Investment in infrastructure and investment in factories is certainly the best investment. Why? Because investment in exactly that kind of thing is very quick to get the money back into the budget. What's good is that Serbia can boast, which is that we have the largest number of investors per capita. Why is that? For three simple reasons. The first is the security that foreign investors feel when they come to Serbia. The other is political stability. I can also say here that it's the first and that it's the basis of everything. So political stability is exactly what gives investors the freedom to invest in Serbia, not in some other countries in the environment and certainly the stability of dinars. We also have the opposition's daily political pressures. Especially now, when we talk about the budget, there are always those who can criticize, but unfortunately, those points when it comes to politics cannot be obtained by criticism and threats. You have to do something, you have to show some of the things that you can brag about, and maybe even convince some number of voters to support you. What is the fact that all those who have been in power so far, and there are many in the ranks of the opposition, cannot boast of some works. I, who constantly travel on Vranjska Banja - Belgrade, frankly, have not seen and remembered any tree that they planted in the period while they were running power. The standard in this country is definitely improving. Less and fewer people are leaving Serbia. If we're talking about population fluctuations, there's no European country or any country in the world where you're not going to apply that fluctuation. People go for a better personal income, for some maybe a more comfortable or better life. What the government of the Republic of Serbia did, it could not be done overnight, which is precisely that the standard in Serbia is being corrected every day. And that's why the growing number of people are leaving Serbia. We had the opportunity to listen these days to the government attack and President Vukic's attack, because a mini Schengen was signed with Macedonia and Albania. Well, people, we're experiencing Albania, maybe rightly, but for many years, as someone who may not think well of us, I won't say as an enemy. Imagine, when one such Albania hands out to Serbia and signs one such mini Schengen, one agreement in which we will certainly have a easier movement of people, goods, where the entire economy in this part of the Balkans will benefit. This should be a clear message that Serbia is sending, and that should be a message that we will send to everyone in the future, and that is a message of peace and one hand out to everyone. If I have to isolate some items in this budget, I will certainly, as I have so far, single out agriculture, because I am convinced that agriculture is a very poorly used resource available to this country. Maybe this year it's just, let's say, redistribute, which it can in the table and see, one part of the asset is less defined in agriculture, but what you've arranged is well concentrated and that's commendable. So, anyway, agriculture without subsidies can't work. It's all over the world, and it's gonna be with us. The main task of the Minister of Agriculture, today I saw him here, but all of you in the government is how to keep young people in the country, because a village without young people definitely can't work. Yesterday, I had a chance to listen to the report of my party's president Dragan Markovic Palma in Jagodina, who among other things listed the methods they managed to keep young people in the country. So, they don't have farmers paying for gigs at the market. With them, farmers do not pay interest for each loan they raise. Theirs is only to return the principal in a moment, and local self-government pays interest on such agricultural loans. And there were cattlemen on a gift from local self-government whores with excellent genetics and then someone laughs and says, "Well, guys, what are you talking about?" That's the topic to talk about. We may not be able to tell anyone who lives in the city in another environment how much that means to people living in the country, but believe me, that's exactly the source of survival for those people in the country. Farmers were free of charge at all possible fairs to get to know and compare their experience with colleagues who deal in agriculture in other countries. I'm mostly talking affirmative here today. I just want to point out one thing that can be used for criticism. Here, I'm not going to tell you about any local self-government, but simply if someone is to give you the trust to run a certain municipality or city, and that you have certain resources that are available, and these funds are just meant for this kind of stuff that I've talked about, I'm still talking about agriculture, I'm talking about grants, you have to make an effort as local self-government that these people who live in the country, and they're not sufficiently educated, and they're not educated enough to be able to access any cooperatives, train and learn how to use these funds and take grants for themselves right now. There's a man who happens to show up, and there's a cooperative that takes an absolute amount for itself. But today, I said, I don't want to criticize, today I want to praise, because this budget is primarily something to brag about. Mr. Minister, the story of every progress and of the development of a country ends and always begins in a natural age, that's what we may be missing and what we should pay attention to in the coming period, which is the fight against the white plague. I saw in the budget that you planned significant funds for social donations, but certainly a criterion for whether the fight against the white plague was successful or not are the results that we can have at the end of each year, which is how many children were born more. Again as a good example, I have to point out Jagodina, because in Jagodina, in continuity for the last few years, every year two students of the champions are more enrolled in school. We have a problem with the fact that a large number of educators are out of work just because the kids are getting smaller, but if you take one good recipe, here, as I was talking about agriculture, I have a desire here from this pay phone, I guess that's what it's supposed to be for, to share good ideas here, to positively provoke each other, to convey that message as it should be done, and that's exactly the result, that more children are born. So, Jagodina managed to use one continuous work and fight against the white plague, which is primarily by stimulating the birth of children, a large number of parents are empowered to engage in multi-member families. It's supposed to be the task of all the people involved in politics in this country. We are the problem of Kosovo, which is clearly present here, but every day this problem is getting smaller because, behold, 17 countries have already withdrawn recognition of a self-called independent Kosovo. This is proof that Aleksandar Vukic and Ivica Dacic, when it comes to foreign policy, are doing a great job, and if they continue at this pace, very soon that number of countries will come to our advantage. If we, not now in this government, not you personally, not perhaps the last two governments, but 10, 15 governments back, were dealing with the fight against the white plague in the right way, we would certainly not have come to the situation if we had the problem we have in Kosovo. But in any case, what's evident, and you can see in this budget, you've started to take care of it. Therefore, Mr Minister, on behalf of the Single Serbia Parliamentary Group, I congratulate you on the budget that you have set as a task for all of us for 2020 and I congratulate you on the realizations, and that is not the point, all the budgets that have been successfully and with the surplus accepted by this Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-20-0.u63925	Thank you, colleague Vujic. Now the word is Minister Sinisha Mali. Here you go, Mr. Mali.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-20-0.u63926	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, I haven't had a chance to speak to you today, but I must take the opportunity. I received a letter from Dragan Gilas in which he explains and criticises in some way the economic policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, so I said to address you and remind you once again who Dragan Gilas is and what the ignorant is about, when it comes to posting economic policies. Dragan Gilas, just to remind you, a man who was in power during the previous period, during his term and as mayor, his private firms earned and earned a total of 619m euros, and only a net profit in those companies, so the profit he presented was 105m euros. Dragan Gilas, who has left record in Belgrade's history of deficits, almost 20% and a total debt of 1.2 billion euros. So, Belgrade's debt that grew, while profits in its private companies grew. Dragan Gilas, who also owed his own party. If you remember, he bought an DS debt of 49 million dinars for 38 million dinars, and then, believe it or not, at an interest rate of 18%, so, like that last lender, he owed that party and charged that money and thus led to a situation where the party is still present. Dragan Gilas whose other party man Marko Bastac puts a bag on his head with his married godmothers, because of a fight over the money they stole from the popcorn sellers, from illegal construction in the Old Town, from those people who do their job fairly and who try to earn bread for their families. Now, that's Dragan Gilas. And now to get back to that letter that I got from him, so I'm going to do an item by item to let you know about what he said and how he doesn't understand, but he absolutely doesn't understand anything, when it comes to the economy, except for what he said about his private interest and his private pocket. So, said Dragan Gilas that Sinisa Mali falsifies public data when she says we are not in debt, and on his ministry's website, we have been in charge of an additional billion euros since the beginning of this year. Mr. Gilas, an additional billion euros is the bond we issued to pay back your old debts, expensive 2011 debts. That's why we haven't raised the level of public debt in any way, because we're paying back old debts, we're at the same amount, but the difference in interest rate is at the level of borrowing. Yours was 7.25%, and ours is 1.6%, five times better or five times more favourable for the budget and for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We have thus saved 4.4 billion dinars only on interest, by refinanced your 2011 expensive debts with more favourable loans that are just confirming our country's good economic position. So, ignorance number one, lie number one just denied. Let's move on, he says, how can you brag that we've cut public debt and not take expensive loans? Let's do it again, now I'm going to take a good chance, so we can go through public debt and how the public debt has moved over the last ten years. Public debt has been growing, ladies and gentlemen since 2008. You remember the irresponsible statements of the then government, the global crisis is a chance for us, it doesn't matter what the whole world thinks it isn't, and then the public debt with 8.7 billion dinars is growing on 31 December 2012, to 17.7 billion dinars, and at the end of 2018 is 23 billion 0.14 million dinars. He says, Dragan Gilas, you've cut down, which is why you're boasting that you've reduced public debt. Well, Mr. Gilas, because we've cut public debt. If you look at the participation of public debt in GDP, it is now at 51.3%, it was in 2013 and 2014, and up to 50%. Then you'll say yes, but you were in power back then. Yes, Mr. Gilas, but you forget why public debt is growing and what's causing the public debt to rise. Then I'll read you the deficits in the budget you've left since 2008, minus 2.5%, 2009 minus 4.2%, 2010 minus 4.3%, 2011 minus 4.5%, 2012 minus 6.4%. These are Mr. Gilas deficits in the budget, higher expenditures and higher income costs. The public debt in years after that is exactly covering your deficits. It's just covering those shortfalls that you've made. It's just covering that ride that you made in the way you ran our country's economic policy. Then, the heavy fiscal consolidation measures, responsible economic policy in 2014, and beyond, lead to public debt as through participation in GDP, reaching a level of 70% of the maximum that has ever been, and then starting to fall, and we are now at 51.3%, in absolute terms. So, lie number two, ignorance of Dragan Gilas, number two in absolute amount since 2015, at the end of 2015, the public debt of the Republic of Serbia 24.8 billion euros, 2016, approximately the same year, in 2017, 23.2 billion euros, in 2018. So, in absolute terms, that public debt falls, and if it's never invested in new highways again in our country, in new tunnels, in new bridges, in new hospitals, in new schools. I'll remind you, in the last five years over 320 kilometers of new highways, we've only done it. In addition, we keep the public debt under control, and we reduce it through participation in GDP, and we have reached a level of 51.3%. This is a serious, responsible economic policy. To return to interest, the average interest in 2012 on the entire public debt that was in our country was 5.29%. Average interest rate today is 3.27%. It is, if I can subtract two numbers, 5.29 at the time of Dragan Gilas is certainly more and more than 3.27. These are his expensive loans that he then took and the government took, and we are in charge under much more favourable conditions. The last bond we had two weeks ago was 1.25%, in history the Republic of Serbia has never borrowed cheaper, which is a confirmation of the responsible economic policy and stability of our public finances. If you consider that the public debt of an absolute amount of around 24 billion euros, there should be 1% savings on interest, that is 240m euros, Mr. Gilas. At the end of the letter he sent me, Mr Dragan Gilas says, the 2020 budget envisions signing new loans and guarantees worth 8.6 billion euros. Perhaps Mr. Gilas was referring to Article 3. The budget bill that gives us the opportunity to borrow some loans and some loans in that amount. But, Mr. Gilas, two things you don't know because you've never dealt with public finances in a way but you've only taken care of your own pocket, and that's number one, we don't have to be in charge of that amount. It depends if the projects are good, you also have a metro project in Belgrade in that amount. If the projects are good, we will be in debt but another thing is even more important, even if we are in debt, Mr. Gilas, it does not raise the public debt of our country in that amount, but it depends on the time of payment and the amount of credit taken during some period of time that is after the date of signing the loan agreement. You should know that, but it's a lie four or five that you've told or not the knowledge that you've shown in this way of course. This, my fellow MPs, does not speak either Sinisha Mali or anyone else, I will read to you just one statement from September of this year, says, over the past period, a significant reduction in public debt participation in GDP as well as strong economic growth has been achieved, which has led to an increase in credit rating from "BB" to "BB plus" with a stable outlook for further improvement. Says credit rating agency Fitch, one of the world's three largest, and in the meantime we got some, even better credit rating analyses than credit rating agencies. So, Mr. Gilas, not to repeat the profits you made in your private companies during your time as mayor of the city of Belgrade, not to repeat the way in which you tasked and destroyed the DS, your party from which you came. Not to mention the bags that your closest associates put on their heads by married godmothers when they're fighting over bribery and corruption and money they took or didn't take from illegal construction in Old Town. I'll just remind you that the public debt of our country is absolutely under control. We stopped that negative, unfortunate, evil spiral of public debt increase that you started with irresponsible behavior in 2008. The public finances of the Republic of Serbia are today on stable grounds. We're perfectly healthy, we're perfectly stable. We are talking about increasing wages and increasing pensions on a stable basis. We are talking about new highways, new hospitals, digitisation, raising the standard of living of Serbian citizens, on sound grounds. We're not talking about the budget deficit that you left at 6.4, 4, 3, 2, I went through those numbers a little while ago. We are talking about a surplus in the budget and that we also have money to raise salaries and raise pensions on real grounds. That's the difference, Mr. Gilas, between your policy and our policy. We will continue to deal with this kind of responsible policy. I ask you to write me as many letters as possible, because I'm comfortable answering them in some way, and you continue to deal with bagging on your wedding godmothers, and you're dealing with the gallows policy and all that hate campaign you have against both President Vukic and all that's good for the citizens of Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-20-0.u63927	Thank you, Minister. The word is Mira Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-20-0.u63928	Respecting the chairman. Respect for respected ministers, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, on behalf of the PUPS parliamentary group, I will focus most on what we are most interested in, and these are salaries and pensions, so I will also remind a little of the gynasis of this pension growth, above all, and this Swiss model of the calculation formula. The formula was in effect from 2003 until 2006 and was then abolished at the World Bank's request for an agreement with the IMF and then started the total Sundive pension and then PUPS reacted and requested an extraordinary 10% pension increase in 2008. We're very proud of it. We don't think that this was the cause of the economic problems that were at that time and that were growing more and more later, and in the end, all these pensioners had these pensions and earned and we had to take care of their existence. After that, in 2014, we again come to a difficult economic situation, where President Vukic decides to apply the difficult fiscal consolidation measures and we are then supporting it. Now, of course, after all this time, it turns out that we were right, and if we've suffered great blows all the time from the opposition, and even from the part of the government, because it wasn't those who defended the pensioners, apparently, after them. This fiscal consolidation has done exactly what we have done since the beginning, since our formation in 2005 and asked, which is to enter peaceful flows, to keep pensions regular, to be stable, to be the state that guarantees their payment. Now we've come to that. I will just remind myself that in 2008 and those years before that, until the finding of a strategic partner for "Bor" and "Gelezar Smederevo", which was done again by President Vukic, it was not known, a lot of money was going away, a lot of money was missing in those privatisations without knowing where that money ended. But we're where we are now. We have stable finances, we have an increase in pensions, and what might be a question that we PUPS see from precaution, of course, and that's how this increase is going to work according to the law, 50% increase in earnings we don't know which. I think it is best to say that we would not later have misunderstandings, because we do not know whether this applies to salaries in the public sector, whether it relates to the real sector, whether they are total average, growth of average earnings, as is the issue of consumer basket growth, indexes, and that is now the question of what it refers to. We know that statistics will be taken from June of the previous year, back a year, which will say it's a year and a half. Now the question is – what if there is greater growth and consumer baskets and profits and we cross those 10.5% that the IMF thinks are borders. Will we respect what the IMF has prescribed, what the IMF considers to be right, or will the state ultimately decide on it itself? I think these are some misunderstandings that should be cleared up before we start on January 1st with a new pension account. We have some more problems, in a hint, as you might say. We all know that technology is making tremendous progress, and we all know that for IT alone, we single out six billion for the development of IT, digitization, and we're going to get into a situation where a lot of occupations are abolished in the next ten years. Some estimate that 400 million occupations will disappear in 2030 and some 260 new ones will appear. Our happiness in all of this is that robotics can't, there's no emotion, there's no brain, so they can only do some physical actions that are repeated, but in any case, we're going to get into a situation that a certain number of people are going to lose their jobs and we're not going to have a real fund-raiser. How are we going to solve that then, maybe we should start thinking now, maybe think in the direction of the proposal that our president, Milan Krkobic, made, to maybe go into the establishment of some technical and technological development fund, where all these big companies that have represented robotics will be allocated, that one part is being paid into that fund, and that these are funds that will replace the lack of money in funds, the PIO Fund, for example. Or, perhaps, it's not bad to think about this new law on the origin of property that will soon appear in the Assembly, which we will discuss. Maybe we could single out the part that's going to be charged by people who can't prove their origin, I don't know if you've been following me ministers, so the suggestion is that maybe the fund that we can add, that part of the money that's being charged in terms of the recommendation, is that 25% is being paid a tax, a tax on property that there's no trace, let's say part 50%, 20, that's on you now, you're dealing with finance, to transfer to those funds that will be used to strengthen the PIO Fund just for all those people who are out of work because of this technological development that unfortunately, as it is. They say 15% of the profession disappears annually. New ones show up, but it's not the same percentage. It disappears more than it does. So, as far as we're concerned, that formula of Switzerland is really very acceptable. As a party, we represent the the thesis that pensions should pay for public sector salary growth and that is something that we believe may be able to reach in the future, but it takes time, as it takes time, for the proposal made by a fellow president of the Radical Group, Mr Vojislav Seselj. Perhaps, indeed, at some point, the financial situation and the economic situation are so stable that it becomes a routine, that perhaps then you should consider the return of some of the funds, which at some point have been taken away from the pensioners, to all those who had over 25,000, but it is indeed an estimate that the government will have to do, which the Ministry of Finance will have to do, in particular. What I would like now and where I can't miss an opportunity to say is as someone who runs the public company "Post" Serbia, that we look forward to the final abolition of the ban, or a regulation on the reduction of earnings, and I would ask that somehow, Minister, this is very important to me, because I now see 15,000 people working in "Post" Serbia. All these years, since 2014 since the profit reduction regulation, we've always done business with profit. I was caught yesterday listening to Mr. Pavel Petrovic commenting on the budget all with praises, of course, when he said the average salary in the EPS was almost 100,000, it was expected to be. So, in "Post" Serbia, you know that they did business for the first nine months of this year, so in "Post" Serbia, which has been operating for years with profits, which each year pays for the budget, we don't have a dollar, we don't get one from the Republic of Serbia's budget, we have 10,000 lower average earnings than the average in the Republic of Serbia. I really think we need to do something. We're not asking to get 20, 30% more profit, but to try and let us increase these people a little bit. You know how technology is great. Technology allows you to sit at home, order everything, but someone has to bring it to you. You have to have a delivery guy, you have to have drivers who'll come home to bring you everything you've ordered. These people have to be paid. Times change. We now have a situation so we can't estimate how much money it takes to keep them. Now you have a situation indeed, for me, very surprisingly, that we have a Employment Fair with us organised by Slovenians, who take our drivers and offer them 1,000-euro salaries. It's unthinkable for me to let it happen, but we let it happen. On the other hand, without them, you can't and the IT people are leaving us, and we can't increase them that much, because in the public sector, in the "Post" of Serbia, IT citizens have a salary of 70,000. In doing so, I have to remind myself, meaning what no one will ever say anywhere in public – everything that is done for the electronic administration is done by employees, i.e. IT-Evcs "Post" Serbia and "Halo baby" we have done and the parent books we have done and citizenship we have done both delivery and receiving requests for health books. So, Serbia's Post Office is really a big, good and public enterprise, which next year celebrates 180 years of existence, which is really for every respect. I mean, we're all in teaton now, and we're making our budget, but I think you should have a little bit more appreciation for the Post Office of Serbia, as a company that really gives extraordinary results, and we feel a little bit like 13 pigs, to say unloved child. So much for making money. We, from PUPS, will, of course, be speaking in more detail about certain parts of the budget. We are, of course, pleased. First we're satisfied with the situation in which the state is located, because this budget is now actually a projection of what we've been doing. And if we hadn't done it the way we did, and if we hadn't all put our backs where we were supposed to, we couldn't have a budget like this, which we really should be proud of right now. The PUPS parliamentary group will, of course, support, so there will be more conversations, but so much of me.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-20-0.u63929	Thank you, Mrs. Petrovic. The word has been made by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. Here you go, Mr. Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-20-0.u63930	Dear Vice-President, members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, the text group will in this part of the presentation highlight the things that we have been skeptical about the budget, deeply believing that anyone who deals with politics is much more used by good critics than praise. The budget has some things that are not disputed, the deficit is very small, balanced, some increased and transparency, but it can do it wherever and where, to be better and so on. But what is the essence of politics, at least as we see it, and I'm sure that's how all those who want maximum good to their country see it is that they don't have to be satisfied with little things, but they need to strive for great works. One of the things that stings our eyes here is that the budget is still slightly more focused on it, to one satisfaction, by stabilizing and now, to one extent, by spending its effects on stabilizing and relatively solid growth rates, than it is on bringing out those deepest beautiful structural reforms, and if not all contained in the budget to be precise, which would encourage long-term sustainable growth of the private sector. When our party and parliamentary group analyzed the draft budget, we noticed some things by collecting very carefully and analytically a certain cont, which is that the budget is essentially not fair to the private sector. When we look at the total releases that we, of course, support, because 1% of the salary is good, but it would be better if it were more and more, and when we add all these effects, the net positive effects for the private sector are almost 3.5 times smaller than the overall effects that the public sector will get through pay increases and through some other parts concerning the budget of the Republic of Serbia. What remains a big problem in our budget is that it fails to encourage the private sector to invest, although the state sector is investing and now it can be said to invest at a level comparable to EU countries, but unfortunately I say the private sector continues to be a helmet. Essentially, it is a problem that can only be removed from structural reforms, dedicated to working on tax reduction, but also to improving the overall business environment in Serbia. We often repeat that, sometimes even as parrots, politics is such that you very often repeat the same things, but what remains as a grudge is - why is it not going to a faster reduction in tax burdens when we already have solid growth rates, because it is far harder to do in times, if the conukture changes, when growth rates can necessarily be lower. That's the way to go with these 3.5% - 4%, which we're talking about right now, which is more undeniable than in some of the earlier times that the minister was talking about quite exhaustively. But again, I'm saying, we're not meant to have little ambitions, to be better than something that was bad, but to build a Serbia that would be superiorly good at everything, and that is one big ambition worth fighting for. We are not aware that people in the public sector are very often underpaid, and that we need smart, capable and paid people in the public sector. What remains controversial is that we in the legal sector do not have the opportunity to reward well those who do well without rewarding those who do not actually do anything or do very little there. This is done to a lesser extent, in certain parts of the state, but at the overall level, we have a problem essentially to separate good performances from poor performances, and in particular to do it in a way that will be completely transparent and visible. Today, some people who work in the public sector are rewarded through participation in projects, through participation in certain commissions, etc. It's completely understandable to me, because you can't expect someone who's a top professional to work at the Ministry of 50,000 or 60,000 dinars and be dedicated. That's pretty clear. However, what remains as a story to us and that we still have a public sector in which we have both the surplus and the lack of employees, in which we have people who are underpaid and people who are overpaid at the same time. What is a question for each of the next budgets is how to create a public sector that meets the needs and that is similar to the practices that exist in the private sector. One thing we're going to praise is that subsidies are finally reduced by 5%, at least when it comes to subsidies going to stimulate foreign direct investment. In Serbia, lately, we've been very fond of a multicity group. In fact, it's about countries that understand our Eurointegration aspirations, and then I just like to quote Klaus, which is the most prominent person that the multi-city group has ever failed. Klaus often said that foreign direct investment is important, but that it is not okay for anyone to give better treatment than for domestic investors and that the best investment is to make Serbia good for business for everyone, and that only subsidies in some medium term, as people say - you can't turn the country 180 degrees, but you can gradually turn it around, be subsidies in agriculture, because in our future home European, it won't be possible to avoid it, precisely because it would be unfair competition for our domestic economy. On the other hand, one good plan to reduce subsidies would essentially have a double effect. On the first hand, they would save in the budget some amounts that are currently going into some inefficient systems, go into social policies, people do not know very well different types of subsidies, but reducing subsidies along with the same foreign direct investment would be one fantastic measure of success of reforms in the Republic of Serbia. It would hardly be a better criterion for the success of reforms than for the reduction of subsidies while at the same time retaining foreign direct investment. Another thing that we do in SMS is a little bit of pain in the eyes, we talk a lot about foreign direct investment, the results in attracting are undeniable, but we would like to work on always being careful and to think about what can happen today, in five, in ten years, because today's problem with Serbia is that very few people can imagine what Serbia looks like in 20 years, and also a large number of political parties suffer from lack of such a vision. So what is our question – what is the net capital flow balance, or how much capital is coming from Serbia, and how much capital is coming? What some predict is that if you want to attract capital to come and stay, you have to let it go. On the other hand, what matters is that we're talking about the net balance, because that's what we're essentially getting, and we're thinking about how to increase that net balance. Once again, if we increase the net balance will mean that we have attracted investments that create a great additional value for Serbian citizens, because if we want to implement digitisation, which you have spoken very much about as the Government of the Republic of Serbia, it is necessary to create places of great added value. For that reason, we were a little worried. Here, just when we touch the issues of branches that create great added value, we boast and we should brag about how the IT sector is developed. Everyone needs and everyone would boast about the development of the IT industry that happened in Serbia. What remains as a concern for us is that these independences do not lead to us and what little we lose, rather than going in the direction of steps that would attract domestic companies and domestic natural persons who provide services to other companies to establish d.o.o. in Serbia and fully pay taxes. So, to attract them to do what is good for Serbia, not to freeze them through these independences and maybe send some of them a message to do what is extremely simple, which is to register their business anywhere in the world and continue to perform it from the chair in Serbia. I fear that this independence test may have considerable damage to the development of the IT sector in Serbia and that we should think carefully about whether we need an ax for the IT sector or whether we need to release a wonderful set of measures that will motivate our IT companies and foreign IT companies to really be hexed in Serbia, that they have seats here and here pay taxes and we think that it would be where and where better to build a Serbia-based vision based on IT, knowledge, to create a great added value to Serbia, the winner of global Serbia. I'm not going to use it for 20 minutes, because we're going to split our time and another of my colleagues is going to talk when the list is finished individually, but I want to say some more things for the end. If we break between 3.5% and 4% today, what is the key, if we want to go to 5%, is a difficult key, extremely difficult, but the key that is the teaching of all the countries that have transformed and it says that tax policy is important for one country's success. Smaller taxes are good for business. We find hot water, but sometimes we forget it. It's very important to relieve the economy, but it's more important than anything in the long run to respect the ownership rights in one country, to work on the rule of law, the integrity of the contract. If we improve these three things in Serbia within a time limit that can probably not be short, but can be the medium term, we will go from 4% to 5% on a sustainable basis and set the basis for our investments to come without subsidies, that our investments remain, because there is no fear when these three things are fulfilled in one country and that we have the opportunity to grow 4% or 5% in the long term, and that is the key that we will talk a lot about in the years to come. It's not just a portfolio. Turns out we only have two ministers. One minister is there much, as I say, I don't mind, about social policy one of my colleagues will talk a lot more about it and I think in this other minister it'll be a little more uncomfortable than the finance minister, but now what's there? Finally, another thing that matters, if we want to build a knowledge economy, if we want to go over 5%, with the current education system, it won't be possible. It will require very deep reforms that will be continued in the years to come. So what is said in the public sector is needed to find ways not only to raise wages, but to value the effects of those who teach those who are future branches with high added value in Serbia by five, 10 or 15 years. So, in order to grow long-term and sustainablely, apart from the sacred trinity of property rights, the rule of law, the integrity of the contract, we need a different education, much more entrepreneurially oriented, we need a policy that creates only a reliable private sector that dominates Serbia, I hope for other people's money, because Leverage is a miracle that changes one country and, of course, we need to persist in digitization and never come into doubt when some laws are passed that are strangely hidden, that we are sending messages that digitalisation and innovation are not right. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-20-0.u63931	Thank you, Mr. Stevanovic. Now the word is Minister Sinisha Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-20-0.u63932	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, Mr. Stevanović, thank you very much for your presentation. We also had a very constructive dialogue during the Finance Committee's session and discussed a lot of issues that concern the economic policies of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the way it is implemented, especially through the 2020 budget. Two things I'd just look back on that got my attention in your presentation. The first thing is about the rate of growth. I share your opinion. To us is the biggest challenge, the greatest obligation, the greatest responsibility at this moment, the way we will continue to grow or speed up our growth. So a few years of fiscal consolidation, when you have consolidated your public finances and when you're healthy on that, what you want is to grow faster and better. I believe this budget has been drawn up so that it balances you and balances between raising the standard of living of citizens of Serbia. So we just have to raise wages and pensions. After all, by raising wages and pensions, you will have an impact on personal consumption, which contributes to raising and growing GDP. On the other hand, we intensify these public investments. It's a good thing we built over 320 kilometers of new highways over the past five years. We want more, for Serbia to be intertwined with new highways. It also means that we are more attractive and that we have better infrastructure, and in the end we have more investment, new industrial parks, new factories, less unemployed. It gives a great optimism, especially to young people, because when you talk about our economic policy, it's very important to find the right way, to have young people's dreams, their Serbian dream come true here, not by some Australias, Canadas, or I don't know where, to get to work easier, to get the right education before they can get to the height of the salary that gives them the opportunity and to start a family and, in the end, to change jobs at some other point. Of course, this dual education that we started has helped greatly, and it helps those who finish high school already have some skills that they need to start working right away. We'll insist on that. You've seen in the budget the money for the new 10,000 classrooms that will be digital. So we invest in this, invest in science and technology parks. We will, and that's another thing I wanted to say, but I won't spend much time, we'll have time for that... So, the next session of the Assembly, since we only have a budget debate here, is a set of tax laws that follow the Budget Law, where, as much as the fiscal space has allowed us, we have focused on reducing the obligations we have as a burden on wages. So, to cut further taxes and contributions by 1%, which is 13.1 billion dinars, the state has decided for 2020 to reduce these contributions and taxes. I'll remind you that last year was a 63% burden, this year 62% compared to the net salary, next year 61%. So it is a clear signal and a clear definition of the government of the Republic of Serbia to go that way in the years to come. You have new income tax laws also large tax exemptions for new employees, especially for young people, even up to 70% in the first year of employment, and we will see how these measures will be accepted. If that is good and we see that these measures have an effect, we will do even more to make more and more young and old eventually work. I am encouraged by these macroeconomic data that speak in favour of our unemployment rate going down. I have the data on me, and we can do that in the discussion about how many jobs are opened annually and how new people are hired in Serbia, which is also good data. So we're on our way. Now, you can't do it all in the same year, you can't do it all right now. More importantly, there must be some natural trace of activity. When we talked about high deficits, high public debt, high unemployment rates, 2012 and 2013 we went into the consolidation process. It's a different situation now. With this process ending, when we talk about increasing wages and increasing pensions, never greater capital investments, new roads, new schools, new hospitals, clinical centres, etc., we need to be smart and all of us who are here to find the right balance to stimulate the growth rate, which are industries, which are business branches and on the other hand, raising the standard of living of Serbian citizens, not only because of the departure of people from Serbia, but simply because it is our policy for Serbia's citizens, our oldest citizens, too, to have as much pay and more pensions as possible. Thank you very much and I hope that we will have a very constructive dialogue and continue this session.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-20-0.u63933	Thank you, Minister. Right on the line, Alexander Stevanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-20-0.u63934	I'll just have a few more notes you've inspired me to answer, so there's another area we haven't scratched enough, and they're called public enterprises. We in Serbia continue to have inefficiencies and we can build a lot of private sector that has the largest public enterprise that crucifies 25% of what we produce. This is one of the key issues if we want to push the growth rate and it will require courage and commitment and sending a clear message that a better career in the private sector is better than in the public sector, or at least that it is equally good, because for and similar efforts you get the same results, and for accepting a little greater risk you will go better if you are in the private sector. The bottom line is to build a structure where a career in the private sector will be a desirable career choice, not for the majority, now I don't believe it will be a case in Serbia, but at least for one decent minority of 40% of people, because at this point in Serbia, no more than 20% of those who finish colleges point out that a career in the private sector is the primary choice and that is the essential problem that will exist and therefore it is important to create conditions for tax cuts and create a good framework for opening their own businesses and for the career of managers or employees in private companies. This is what will crucially shape Serbia's future in the years to come.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-20-0.u63935	Thank you, Mr. Stevanovic. The word has a minister, Mr. Sinisha Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-20-0.u63936	Thank you. Dear MPs, you have launched an important topic and I hope we will have a chance to talk about it in the coming days, but I want a brief note about public enterprises. A lot has already been done in the past two ways. First, you have a large number of companies that have drawn money from the budget, which have, in some ways, been a bottomless well, which were privatized, or found a strategic partner. I'm thinking about "Smederevo" too much here, and I'm thinking about RTB Bor. So at this point, you have no obligation to raise money from the budget for these two enterprises in the past period, of course it is, in order to maintain employment in terms of social policy. Now you see in the 2020 budget as the subsidy level decreases. So there are some companies that no longer need help, because they found a strategic partner. On the other hand, we are within the Ministry of Finance, it is very important to stress, perhaps you don't know, formed a sector to monitor fiscal risks, it is in agreement with the IMF, a sector that should monitor fiscal risks all that can in any way endanger the macroeconomic stability of our economy. One of the areas covered by potential risks is public enterprises. We've been following their results all year, analyzing their business plans and waiting for the end of the year, to be honest with you, to see how they've achieved and if they've achieved what they've planned. This may be the first time an objective view of their business so that in the first and second quarter of the following year we will come up with concrete measures to improve their organisation, their management, the way they plan, the way they implement their budgets. This is certainly one of the areas in which, apart from the pay reform, the pay grade, which is our next year's plan, we will deal with in the framework of the Ministry of Finance as much as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-20-0.u63937	Thank you, Minister. The word has a folk MP, Professor Milorad Mijatovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-20-0.u63938	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I start discussing the budget I'll say a few things, a few facts. First, I stress because of Serbian citizens that we respected the budget calendar, which means -- the budget was adopted by the government at the time it was scheduled, it came in time to the Assembly. So MPs had a lot of time to discuss and read the 2020 budget. Secondly, there's twice the time here for discussion. What does that mean? It means MPs can analyze the budget in detail, give amendments and fight for that budget to be fixed. It is a responsibility, and the budget can also be improved in the debate with individual amendments. Third, this is the only point we're discussing, which means we have plenty of time to discuss. Fourthly, the minister already said that in his presentation earlier, we discussed the budget at the Finance Committee on Monday for four hours. That debate was very constructive. In certain moments, very controversial, with respect for all the actors in the discussion and in a democratic debate, we have come to some of the conclusions that the Committee President, Mrs. Aleksandra Kovac, has made here in our debate. It's a responsible policy and it's responsible politicians. They say what they'll do, do and propose. Now I'm going back to the 2020 budget. I have to point out that we have the following keywords, and I like the key words to say, maybe because I'm also a mathematician, the budget is balanced, the budget is stable, the budget is secure, he has stability, and he has what I have to point out, it's a development component. Of course, it is undeniable that we have achieved extraordinary results in the financial consolidation. This is also recognised by the IMF, the World Bank, as well as by the Fiscal Council, which at the end of the year also confirmed it on the Finance Committee. Of course, the prerequisite for good results is political stability. I must stress that within our coalition, the ruling coalition there is unity in the realization of what we promised Serbian citizens. And that unity, that agreement is also a prerequisite for these results that we achieve in financial consolidation. What's that gonna mean? This will mean increasing the standards of Serbian citizens, pensioners about employees. This will also mean GDP growth, it will mean a decline in Serbia's debt relative to GDP and what I am looking forward to, it is an increase in public investment. Of course, there were a lot of words here about it. The budget was made on the so-called so-called budget. ‘conservative method’. That's what I welcome and support. The future side is set correctly, as well as the expenditure side. No surprises, there won't be any. The budget has a deficit. It's 0.3 for the Republic, 0.5 for the general state. You know, I remember a time when the deficit was 6.6-7%. We have now reached those percentages that are just as good for the country of Serbia as expected. I stress that 2017/18 had a surplus, and I expect the surplus in 2019. You know, we've still located that surplus, it's 46 billion and we've divided it evenly, balancedly into areas that were at some point very current. I said Serbia's public debt is falling from GDP. It currently stands at 23.32 billion euros or is at 51.9 level. If we know that it was at 76%, then you see how far ahead it was made, that we have a debt that is tolerable for Serbia. To stress that Mastricht says the debt should be 60% of GDP, our law says it should be 45%. I personally think we have to stay at 45%, because it's for the country of Serbia, the way it is, something that's very good. Of course, these are good results, but there's something that worries us. I'd like to see our GDP growth grow bigger. After years, it went between 1.8, 3.3, 2.0, 4.3, 3.5 is forecasted for 2019, projections are going to be 36, 37. To be very clear, this growth in GDP for Serbia, which was very lagging in the past, is not enough. It is not enough for a simple reason for Serbia to move faster forward, that GDP must be much bigger and precisely all the policies we are currently creating for the future must contribute to that GDP growing faster. There are economic instruments for this, and I think the government will do it in the next period. Now my favorite topics. My favorite theme is pensions and pensioners. You know, in 2018, when the pensioners were in a difficult situation, we insisted that the pensioners who put up with the heavy burden must feel better when the economy moves forward. Exactly what we were looking for and what Mr. Momo Colaković and I did, in 2018 we were looking for a Swiss formula, because then the government determined according to its criteria how many pensions would increase. Of course, we got the Swiss formula and I say hello. It is this Swiss formula, which is best for pensioners at this time, that pensioners in the future, other than pension security, pension fund security, will also have growth in line with the growth of the economy. I therefore welcome that pensioners will grow by 5.4% in 2020. What is the result of our economic policy? It's exactly the best you can see on the pension fund, and that's the transfers coming from the budget going to the pension fund. In 2014, please transfer from the budget to the pension fund was 272 billion dinars, in 2020 it was 157.5 billion. That difference is 114.5 billion. It is precisely that difference that is the success of economic policy. And let me tell you, for this difference we can make the highway, the Moravia Corridor and Kuzmin-Racha, because the total sum of these two highways is exactly these 114.5 billion dinars. That's a huge score. But this result says something else. It also speaks about employment growth. Those who dispute that people are employed in Serbia, that these figures are not real, this particular mathematical structure shows us that in Serbia we have employment, that it is slightly above 10 and very soon it will be below 10, that means 9%. Also, I like to talk about wages. That, at least for me, was one of the disagreements with the Fiscal Council. I've always stood up for it, and I'll always bet that in the rise of economic policy we've got bigger salaries, but that these salaries can be divided from what's earned. Namely, the GDP salary fund in 2017 was 9.1. It's optimally 9.3, 9.4 and, please, with this increase from 8 to 15% participation is going to be 9.6. It's a slight deviation, 0.2% of GDP, but knowing that the income side was made by a conservative method, I'm quite sure that the percentage will be lower, because the revenues will go forward. The fact itself suggests that we are running a responsible wage policy and that pay allocations will not compromise our country's economic system. I'm taking a positive assessment of the pay discharge. I positively assess this for the simple reason why we must also give the possibility for our economy, especially the private sector, to rise in particular. We came from 62% of our contributions to 61%, from 63% to 62%, 61%. I am a policy supporter step by step, which means step by step, we will get to that 58%, but when Serbia is even stronger economically and when we come into a situation that we can actually reduce part of the contribution to keep the economy going and further develop it. As someone who comes from a union backgrand, I commend that the minimum labour price from 27,020 rose to 30,020 dinars. That's very significant. It is also very important to me because of the fact that social dialogue has been achieved. I hope the Minister of Labour contributed to that. True, he's talking on the phone right now, but he probably hears what I'm saying, for a simple reason, because I want to point out that social dialogue unions and employers have to come to a common consensus, because I stand by myself as a social Democrats and the Social Democratic Party that the minimum labour price must be a minimum consumer basket. When the phone is finished, the labour minister will likely accept it and will reach that result step by step in the next period. Where I have a disagreement, and I have to be very open, this is a democratic discussion, with the finance minister, and these are pay classes. We also discussed this for a long time on the Finance Committee. I stand for pay grade. I advocate for a simple reason because there is a very large variety of wages in Serbia in the public sector. I know it's not a simple job. I know it's not an easy job. But I hope that for the Minister of Finance and the Minister for Local Self-Government it will be a challenge, a challenge to finally solve a very difficult problem. Besides, when we started financial consolidation in 2014, it was hard, but we got out of it. I hope the finance minister will also accept this challenge in 2020 and finish the work on the pay grade and we will have as much equal pay in the public sector as possible. I also stress this because of the fact, because I know it's a difficult, complex job, I know there's a lot of interests, different interests, some strong unions will resist, but it's a challenge – a challenge and I believe that you will accept this challenge and that you will succeed. By taking policy one step at a time, I hope that by fixing it we will get to what is very important and what is important. I know everybody can't win, someone has to lose, but if you do it through social dialogue, employers, unions and government, I'll be very pleased. I'll leave time to talk about public investment. Three, four years ago, I said I'd be proud when Corridor 10 ended. Corridor 10 is complete, his South Leg, his Eastern Leg. I expect December 19th to end Corridor 11, and by the very same way that from my Novi Sad to Cačka we'll go on the right highway, which is very good. I also welcome the start of new investments. I stress that for investment years ago, for public investments of 120 and some billion, we reached 260 billion. You know, it's a huge figure that we've managed with our work, smart policies, successful financial policies, to lead to this goal. I am pleased to start working on the Moravia Corridor, then on the highway Kuzmin - Rača, Ruma - Šabac - Loznica. I would love it as a patriot's place, and I expected it in this budget, that there would also be talk about the highway Novi Sad - Ruma and finally the tunnel through Frusta Mountain. I hope the space for this will be in the next budget and I'll be very happy to finally start that tunnel through the Frusch Mountain. I want a Serbia that's intertwined by highways, well-designed, those highways that are necessary and necessary. I'd like, for example, to have West Buck, Sombor, Apatin, also have a freeway, but hopefully, in some future budgets, in a new investment plan, there'll be room to sometimes fantasize in advance. When we have highways, when we invest in education, when we have investment in health care, we have one better Serbia, one better Serbia for life. The very fact that with eight billion investment in education we go to 22 billion, that we are introducing new primary and secondary schools, digitization, wireless internet, that in health with five billion we are going to go to seven billion, that we have and that we are going to build new clinical centres that have already started but are not finished, is now their turn. We all see Belgrade clinical centres when we pass. I expect it in Novi Sad to start from spring and also in Kragujevac. You know, in 2018, with 128 billion, we succeeded in public investment in 2020 to expose 260 billion. Is there anything more to be said? For the end, I leave what is always my favorite topic, which is further investment - plumbing, sewers, environmental protection and municipal infrastructure. I often talk about the goals of sustainable development, I'm talking about the 2030 Agenda, because we all want clean air, clean rivers, we all want Serbia to get wet, we have lots of trees, we have wastewater purifiers. You know, 84% of Serbian citizens have drinking water. I want it to be 100%. We can talk about it. The Focus Group didn't put amendments on the budget this year. Why? We have analysed and we have seen that significant resources have been allocated to achieve the goals of sustainable development, but we will therefore appreciate your next steps and I expect that you will stress what goal is being achieved. In the end, the Social Democratic Party of Serbia will vote in favour of the 2020 budget, as well as later on for all accompanying laws concerning the budget. That's exactly what we're going to do because we want Serbia to be a better, more decorated country, and we already have it and we're going to have it better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-20-0.u63939	Thank you, Professor Mijatovic. Is anyone else answering for a word from the president, or a representative of the parliamentary groups? The word has the People's MP Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-20-0.u63940	Thank you. Dear Chairman, honourable ministers, fellow MPs, we see from the discussion of all representatives of the heads of parliament's groups that today's 2020 budget has support, regardless of whether there is a position or opposition, because the first sentence says that it is well balanced and well-designed budget. This means that incomes and expenditures are well planned, based on real and sustainable sources of funding, that those you worked as finance minister, together with all your colleagues in the Serbian government, shows that you have really painted the plan and the programme for next year, and based on the results we have in this one. Why am I saying this? Because we have had the opportunity to debate with the Fiscal Council, not just this year on the Finance Committee, but in recent years, where they sometimes give their projections and their estimates that change. We had, say, 2016, my colleagues, a debate where the Fiscal Council projected 1.8% growth in the Republic of Serbia, and we went out to 2.7% of GDP that year. And when we asked the question -- well, well, how did you project it, so you were so wrong, they said -- well, there's different factors how we do it, but, like, based on certain parameters. Why am I saying this now? Because somewhere with yesterday's debate, where it's based on this report and evaluation and based on what we're really doing here today, we have a chance to talk like we're talking about two different budgets, two different approaches to the economy. You know, their assessment says that growth is projected to 3.5% somewhere, that, minority, Serbia is in big trouble, because when you look at it as last year that we haven't made any progress at all in any percentage, that now that the pensions are in the Swiss formula that they've proposed, about, now it doesn't matter, that's good, but, like, they've already proposed, they just haven't said on the basis of which parameters we need to carry out fiscal consolidation on a certain drastic scale, as we've been doing, they've always said that they've always had a certain kind of criticism about the way the government of the Republic of Serbia has been doing all these years. Obviously, this work, in the past five years, has shown that these results could not really come to light today and Serbia's citizens could not really feel an increase in pensions, nor in the Swiss formula, nor in any other formula, could they have an increase in wages, nor in the formula of seeing our young experts in the field of health and education remain in Serbia, nor simply have investments, not in the infrastructure and protection of the environment that they are talking about now, but not at all to build roads. Because if we could, it would be logical that these 320 km times shouldn't end at the time of the SNS, but should have been finished in 2012. Therefore, it was necessary to create conditions for you to come into the situation as finance minister, to come to the Committee and say -- you know, our budget has been developed for next year, our budget should work to increase the standards of Serbian citizens. That is not the case when you have economic reforms and fiscal consolidation. We can now say with certainty that we have completed what is called belt tightening, that we are now going completely as the entire economy of Serbia into investment, we are investing not only in infrastructure, but obviously in people's knowledge, because if we hear that we are going to end up in the next year four scientific and research parks, six entrepreneurship centres, these are things that are being talked about completely normally today, i.e. the topics you're talking about, as you often say, have changed. From 2013-2014 until today we are talking about how we will simply grab ahead and be shoulder to shoulder with developed countries, with developed economies, with our task being to be faster, to make up for what some have been holding us back and holding us back until 2012. Obviously, those who led the state, both that Đilas and Tadic and Bosko Obradović and Vuk Jeremic, and all together are now in love again so that they can return to power again because they saw these good results of economic policy. They saw that the money was in the budget, they saw sustainability conceiving the budget, not on the basis of whether a tycoon of the type Miskovic should build one Belville. So, on this basis, now that they see that there is indeed a stable economic situation in Serbia and that for a long, long time, it will be, of course, that the road is now open to them to try to take over power without isors, if they can, in the Republic of Serbia. That's not gonna happen. It will not happen because Serbian citizens support this concept and the 2020 budget, because this budget is also otherwise conceived on the basis of the wishes of Serbian citizens, because one Belgrade was the first to implement so-called. The Belgrade citizens' budget, by asking for a survey of all Belgrade citizens, to propose what they see as the biggest problem, what should be financed from the budget. Of some 3,000 proposals, 100 proposals have been included in the Belgrade city budget and this has proved, in fact, that this is the right formula for what Serbian citizens want to see through, what is said to be daily life. You, in the Republic of Serbia, are also, on the basis of the requirements of all citizens of local self-government, who have said – infrastructure, sewerage, water infrastructure, environmental protection, deposit, resolution of acute problems, now put it in the budget through local self-government, help through the Republic budget, which, by means of direct funding, through certain credit lines and European funds and other international institutions, has shown simply that you know very well the subject of how projects we have to solve, not because of the EU, but because of the directives, but because of ourselves and our health and because of Serbia, you know that you are conjecturing through the budget and that you are making a balance between all investments and public investments that will be worth 260 billion dinars for the next year, that you simply balance with that socially responsible policy for giving, and for those non-profits, areas and labourability in Serbia, not only, but also for education and culture and culture. What you can see from this Serbian budget, based on the analysis of the Parliamentary Budgetary Office, is the largest budget increase planned for 2019 compared to 2020 has health care. So 73% is the 2020 budget item bigger than this year. Why? There are huge pay increases, precisely because we want our doctors and healthcare professionals to stay in Serbia. To increase not only their salaries, but also the environment in which they work, investment in health infrastructure, reconstruction of all facilities, as well as the purchase of new equipment. What is important is to say that besides the infrastructure, the item we talk about so much – the treatment of certain diseases that are not characteristic, i.e. for which there is no cure in Serbia, is now being successfully treated abroad by some 8.7% and is now over 560 million dinars. Let me tell you, in 2012 here in Parliament as MPs, we were raising money for children being treated abroad because those items, not only MPs, but people were also paying through different kinds of actions, media gatherings, assistance to NGOs, because those items were not there. So now we have that item in the budget and we increase every year. What has to be said is that a major point of increase is in the context of the health appraisal itself in the budget and in the treatment of chronic diseases. Almost 25% of the increase itself goes to treat chronic diseases because it is recognised somewhere in society that all those diseases that become today are everyday and young and old people need to be dealt with systematically. After all, this government solves it this system way. What has been noted is that the difference between the ratios of the items for this year and the next when it comes to energy and mining is greater by 13.3%. It shows that they include full investment in energy efficiency and ultimately energy resource management, with a total increase of 63% being invested through certain types of giving when it comes to energy efficiency in construction and through the financing of credit lines that Serbian citizens will be able to take to solve these problems and raise the level of functioning of buildings, thereby saving through concrete accounts. When we talk about education, we had opportunities from the prime minister to hear that very much funds will be invested, 7.7% more than last year, in infrastructure, evaluations and education, but also the part relating to the digitisation of classrooms themselves. This means that each elementary school will begin in a certain way to comply with the plan and the digitalisation programme that the Serbian government designed four years ago. What is important is that each school will have a basic infrastructure view to reconstruct itself. Almost 80% of this increase will go to primary schools. It was seen to cover all the strategic problems in society that vary somewhere all the layers of society, and what concerns non-productive and what applies to so-called. production forces in society. It's important to say that tax policy was going in the direction of redundancy. It may not be enough 1% to cut taxes and contributions to employers, but if we have as much as we had in the past every year, as we have these and that trend we continue really this discharge shows in the budget that it is very much. So, 13 billion dinars is exactly a disbursement of the economy with which the economy will be able to create new jobs, or it will be able to raise its salary to its employees. So you thought of them, too. Through a raise in wages, the state will also have an increase in revenues in the budget through taxes, which is 13.4 billion dinars, but also economy itself through VAT and profit taxes will earn 26 billion, which shows that we view it as a country in one real way. The fiscal council in its assessment gave a table where it tried to compare Serbia with the Central and Eastern European countries through tax rates. It is interesting that we are really comparing ourselves with the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, which is of great importance to us, because we are on the path of European integration, but it is also true that some of the experts from the Faculty of Economics in recent years have called Serbia to enter the rank of African countries, but in one pervasive sense, trying to show that in fact for the past 10 years we have actually done nothing, simply trying to reduce all of our successes in this permanent growth all these years by having a fall in 2012 3.1% and every year where they have recorded the fall and trying to say that we simply do not run a responsible economic policy. To guide it is just proof that the tax rates in Serbia and the countries of the region we compare with, and there are Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Croatia, Hungary and Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia, are all EU members and we are not yet, we show that the profit tax rates are 15% as average for the Central and Eastern European countries as well. Then, 20% of VAT rates are in line with countries such as Slovakia and Bulgaria, and all other countries have bigger ones, except for Romania and Macedonia. What is interesting is that taxes and contributions to profits are now projected 61% for next year. Only higher rates have Hungary, and fewer rates have, not only Hungary, but Romania, Slovakia and Slovenia, and only fewer have Bulgaria and Macedonia. What I wanted to show is that when some people say that we have high tax rates and that based on that, we're filling a budget that simply makes citizens have lower levels of standards, it doesn't stand. This theory based on what I gave the Fiscal Council as a table, where we can compare, shows essentially that those with this price and as one kind of criticism for next year's budget, is exclusively, the greatest criticism of salary increases. Retirement is not, because we entered this model of Swiss form that they increased, and they don't have a problem when we increase pensions, and if it wasn't once opportunities, they never talked about that increase as rigidly as now. They did not speak when they increased in 2010, 2011 and 2012 due to political negotiations, because they were not allowed to talk about it at the time. Now you can talk freely about everything, but now it's said that the abnormal salary increase in society of between 8 and 15%, or 9.6% on average, and that abnormally means that it would endanger our economic growth, which is projected to 4%. Look, if we have 4.7% growth in the third quarter, and now we have about 4,87 billion euros in foreign direct investment, it is estimated that by the end of the year it will be 5.3%, and last year we were at 3.5 billion, and the Financial Times has declared us truly one of the most successful for attracting the Greenfield of Foreign Direct Investments, as a country of one, including those of the EU member states with which we compare. If we are now talking about having a really big, high level of public investment, you have in the most conservative way projected growth for the next year 4%, then we do not see the reason why an increase in wages and pensions would be abnormal, I mean this formulation, because for us this represents, in fact, the results of the work that we have achieved in the previous five years, and the results that we have achieved together with the citizens of Serbia and when we have reduced wages and pensions. Now that there is simply this fiscal space to increase, why not use it, why not raise the standard of Serbian citizens, as you did in your first sentence when you discussed the budget, and why not go towards those high growth rates, parallelly. We simply don't see at all why this criticism was made by the Fiscal Council, but perhaps they have some other knowledge that says that certain economic disorders will be on the market, but we as a state have also protected ourselves. We have protected ourselves by the fact that the National Bank of Serbia has already held inflation at the projected level of 2% in six years, because the exchange rate since 2012 is stable, because we have now come to foreign reserves and the purchase of gold amounting to 30.4 tonnes of gold. So, there's one basis for all the blows that we could possibly achieve in the economy itself that we can take in a certain way all the risks that you're talking about, that you've even created one group within the Ministry of Finance. So you manage the risks, which is very important when it comes to finance. I think that in an adequate way you have responded completely to the criticism that when we talk about paying classes, which is why until today simply cannot be implemented by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Because when you talk to trade unions and public companies, it's not easy then to make projections I'm locked up somewhere and looking only at percentages and figures, as many experts do, but you should sit at the table with all those trade unions that simply hold the economy of the Republic of Serbia and tell them that they need to be unified on each job by the same salary. This means that the driver's salary in emergency care should be the same as the salary in a public enterprise, as the driver's salary in "Serb Post", as the driver's salary, for example, in the state administration. Then you can never reach that part of the consensus and therefore it is very difficult with the unions to conduct negotiations this way. Will the time come when, as a society, we will sit down to actually pay classes and arrange for all areas to be represented and unified according to jobs, they will probably come, but for that all relevant entities in this country should try to talk and accept this concept. That's what's the answer to the Fiscal Council, that's what we're asking them to start talking to all the relevant entities, so they can simply face all the resistances that you're facing as executive authority. When we talk about large fines and court proceedings, the grand penalty of court proceedings, the main criticism of the Fiscal Council, that they are 22 billion dinars for next year is simply something that we have received from the past as a delivery of a successful policy under the authority of the gentlemen of the Alliance for Serbia, who by 2012, launched all the litigation and left huge debts, aside from those loans they have raised, hiding it somewhere in some drawers and saying that the public debt did not rise more than 15 billion. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, the SNS will support the 2020 draft budget in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-20-0.u63941	Thank you. The word is Jahja Fehratovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-20-0.u63942	Thank you. At the very beginning, I will take the opportunity to today's 20th November, which is the national holiday of the Bosniaks in Sandzak, Dan Sandzak, congratulate everyone who sees this day as their national holiday. He is the Dan of Sandzak because then the Sandzak peoples in Pljevi said they wanted that space as a space of merger and a place where they would live in peace and tolerance and fight against every kind of fascism. Of course, that's one of the reasons why we think this budget is because it deals with most of its space is allocated to infrastructure projects. It is very important for us to have these infrastructure projects because they bring together people, spaces, peoples, so that we are particularly happy that in this draft budget and draft budget law, there will be projects concerning the infrastructure of our Sandzak space. First of all, I'm thinking of this part of the leg towards Kotroman, the highway, but also of the reconstruction of the state path of Second A Order, the New Pazar-Tutin. However, what concerns us a little bit, since we had several announcements and deadlines, papers, the beginning of works and the reconstruction of the road, and then during Mr. Erdogan's visit we even had the launch of works on that reconstruction and it ended with the construction of only one supporting wall of a few tens of meters. The year is about the reconstruction of the road, but unfortunately the citizens have lost a lot of confidence and therefore encourages us to have it in our budget this time concretely so that we can be sure that there will really be work on that road, even if they were late, because the citizens have waited very long. They'll have patience a little longer, but to make sure it's over. Also, it is very important for us and we want to commend really this capital project of the pipeline that goes from Bruce through the Kopalnik, Raška, to Novi Pazar and Tutin, because it is one of the great preconditions for the development of the economy and for the development of any economic improvement of these parts. What we may have expected, as we appeal to this occasion, is to find ourselves in the proposal for the next budget, which is the reconstruction of electricity networks in these areas, because our power grids are really insufficient, given the expansion of construction investments and citizens very often have the right to wonder and be afraid that even existing capacities will be able to withstand when everything that is being built, residential and other units, is connected to the power grid. So from here we use the opportunity to suggest to the competent ministries and the government that they look very carefully at this issue and that perhaps in the draft for the next financial year we have a project of this kind. Also, one of the things that we meet very often on the ground and which is present in this draft budget is more serious education issues and that's good. But what interests, particularly educational workers, is the fact that we are not yet in a position to start the process of receiving in a permanent working relationship in education, given that we have a steady growth in the budget and that the financial situation is very stable, we are calling for both the government and the competent ministries to deal with this issue in particular, because there are a large number of people in education who are somehow on the verge of whether to stay in this country or leave at all, because they are insecure about their receipts, their jobs are insecure. I thank you and I expect to get some of the answers to these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-20-0.u63943	Thank you, colleague Fehratovic. The word is by MP Enis Imamovic. He's not there. The word has the People's MP Vojislav Vujic. He's not there. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-20-0.u63944	Thank you. I have failed to speak for these 20 minutes as an authorised representative, since, I have seen that I am at the beginning of the list, so there is no need to duplicate that time, although there might be and should be a lot of talk about this budget, as well as every time about something that is the most important document that this Assembly adopts over the year, provided there are no extraordinary events and some terrible and important things. So in the life of a single government, in the life of a single parliament, the adoption of the budget is the most important act and, in that sense, it needs to be approached with the proper respect. This aspect was not in some earlier cases during the government's mandate, which is why I must start by saying that this time the budget arrived on time, that it served the prescribed time in parliament, that the session was scheduled for the Rules of Procedure, that there was no budget and budget debate in those tenths of the agenda, as was said, how many last year and some previous years. So there are no of those, as I called them, phantom amendments submitted by the ruling majority to some previous points, so that they could not come and discuss the budget. It's double the time for discussion. How much is that? That's four, five, six commendations. Yes, the debate on the Finance Committee was really exhaustive and quality, and I see that also colleague Tomic had a bit of a replication and was responding specifically to some of the remarks that Mircic and I were putting on this budget proposal. So that's five, six things to be mentioned and commended. Of course, when things work normally, then they were meant to be, but I repeat and stress, only a year ago it wasn't like that. Perhaps this debate would have taken place whether in a better quality atmosphere or at least in a fuller room, if last year's budget debate hadn't crossed, I'd say, a line and a line. Anyway, these were commendations. What I see is that it has caused more representatives of the ruling majority, including the Prime Minister and some colleagues, to react indirectly, to say, by flaunting my thesis, not only mine that this budget is pre-election, or that it is not electoral but developmental. He also has his developmental elements, I won't deny it, but he is pre-election. You don't have to be ashamed of something or deny it, after all, next year is an election one way or another, of course the government is going to try, as I said a little paradically, to prepare that budget. The debate on rebalancing and the whole budget rebalancing that we had a month ago or something more here in the Assembly, also had this, I would say, marketingly representative and pre-election character, including salary increases, including the extraordinary pension allocation, or that one-time payment to help pensioners, and that's all right. I don't mind. What I have against and what I think I should and in the form of questions I'm going to ask Mr. Secretary, a few things about the budget, there are a lot of controversial things, or at least that require an additional explanation. I will go from the end, that is, from what my colleague Tomic has finished and what's mentioned in the Fiscal Council report here and what really stings her eyes. For the item – fines and penals, the different types of budget for next year, as many as 22 billion dinars are foreseen. That's almost 200m euros. Look out, I'm not saying that much. So that's twice as much as 2017, five times as in 2010, where it's not clear what it's about. Of course, it is likely that both Mr. Minister and colleagues from the ruling majority will say that some of the disputes, which the former government led and lost, are now coming toll. There's a green energo and something like that. But, I mean, every year something so big comes up, it doesn't really matter to me if those disputes were made or lost by some previous government, or now it's the one that's been on the scene for seven years. So, it's a tremendous increase, and it's not quite broken down, and it's not clear, even the Fiscal Council itself says that it couldn't get into the structure of these pens and penalties, because it's a large item of 22 billion dinars just so expensive and casually with it ending. Then, what I'm seeing, and probably some of the other colleagues here will mention it, is an eightm-euro item, which at first glance doesn't seem so scary, from the lender, be careful now, the creditor of the Republic of France, designed to build a Belgrade Metro project. Of course, it's only for one thing, but it's very important, because then there goes a 500m-euro item also for a project to build a Belgrade subway, but you can't see who's pulling that debt, that line. It mentions, therefore, 500m euros, whether it is some investment fund, which is the one from which the state is in charge and is preparing to be in charge of such a large, huge 500m-euro item, not a dinar. On the other hand, these lowly 80m euros from the Treasury of the Republic of France, in a way, mean putting your feet in the door and putting practical prejudge or putting before the final act that France is building that subway. It is no accident that exactly the French Treasury of the Republic of France is giving those funds from the high ones, but for the construction of the subway, they are certainly not enough 80m euros. There is no dispute that traffic in the capital is in poor shape, often in collapse and that there are some radical measures needed, but I think that when we look at priorities, it is certainly much better and more urgent to take care of the sewerage, which even a third of Belgrade does not have and the Belgrade citizens do not have, but to get carried away with such expensive projects as the Belgrade Metro project. I simply ask and appeal that the purpose of this item be considered a little bit, no matter what it sounds good, especially in pre-election times. And some other authorities have always announced that subway. Not that he wouldn't be welcome, but I'm saying I'm not sure it's on the agenda. With that in mind, we're coming up with another item that's scary, about some ideological things, I'm going to speak conceptually at the end of this debate, so now I'm just going to go to a specific point, so the minister can have the opportunity to answer. It is also such a huge 200m or 250m euros planned for the construction of a national stadium, so it is mentioned that the famous national stadium, which figureed out last year in the draft budget, I thought it would somehow disappear, that it will come out by now, but it is not, in my humble court, there is no excuse, no sports, no material, no tourist, even though all these reasons are indicated. We can see that the existing stadiums in the capital where Serbia's team is played mostly sounding empty, the average viewers in the game of the team are about 6,000 viewers, and now with these last few games we played with Luxembourg and Ukraine, I think the percentage is even lower. Even if it were more interesting, I think we look at the list of priorities again, not exactly like the subway, but maybe even more than the subway, because the subway makes sense, only it's very expensive, but we don't really need the national stadium, and I think we should throw it out as an extra and parading item. With that in mind is something that is also necessary, desirable, but I don't think it should be on the priority list, and I'm afraid I'm going to have to finish there, I think I have 12 or 13 minutes, it's the famous Nis-Medara highway, phase one or two, if it's actually foreseen as just one part of the planned Nis-Pristina-Drac highway. Some of my colleagues and I think it's not good, of course it's good to make roads, of course, I also commend what has been done so far in that sense, on the side of the controversy whether someone should be called one way or another, some comical and non-serious controversy, I think whoever makes it should and baptizes it, I think that the road and these dilemmas around the highway "Milos the Great". So there's no problem and they're being made and they get a name like the one who made it thinks it should be. But this highway, regardless of what is going to be said to be significant for one part, of course, is always important for one part of the population that lives there, but when we talk about priorities, it's infinitely more important this Moravia Corridor, which is announced, but for which at this point they are defined relatively modest and in any case less resources than was mentioned to cost for the next year, which means that it's not planned to build it, at least not in full capacity, except for starting works. More important are these mentioned Shabac-Losnica shares and this tunnel through the Frust Mountain and even the highway to Romania. So, what I'm saying is, regardless of this suspicion that there is one part of the public, including the MPs, that it is said that the NATO Pact highway, which would make it easier for NATO troops from Drac to move towards the east and Russian borders, therefore, independently of this speculation whether it makes sense or not, even when we talk about priorities for the state of Serbia and the citizens of Serbia, then all these highways would probably come sooner on the agenda to build than this Nis-Medare towards Pristina and Drac. One more thing, I'll stick around later, if there's any chance. I think that no matter how much he disagrees, no matter how ideological with the views of the Fiscal Council, it is necessary to take seriously the warning given by Mr Petrovic Pavle and yesterday at that session of our Committee on Finance, which says that with this trend that the government boasts and is satisfied we will definitely stagnate and lag behind the countries of Central and Eastern Europe. So, with this trend of growth that both government colleagues find encouraging and brilliant, expert, serious expert, whether you like it or not, it says that we will continue the trend of lagging behind the countries of Central and Eastern Europe. In that sense, and I really end up, praised that in one quarter, in one period of the current year, we have had a 4.2 or 4.5% growth, it seems unserious, especially when we compare ourselves to Germany or some developed Western countries, which, of course, have small growth rates as developed countries, but their 1% is much more than our 3% or 4%. So we take this warning seriously, I don't think there's any reason for optimism, but for serious and mutual concern. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-20-0.u63945	Thank you, colleague Vukadinovic. The word has a representative of the proposed Finance Minister Sinisha Mali. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-20-0.u63946	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, first of all, let me look back at a few comments that we just had a chance to hear. So, I'm glad that everyone notices a few things about the budget – firstly, that he arrived in time for the National Assembly, that he was not adopted or adopted by an emergency procedure, that 15 and more days of the budget was in front of MPs, that they were well acquainted with him, is the only item of the agenda of today's session and what is perhaps most important, twice the time was given for discussing him. So, completely transparent, completely public, in the best possible way that everyone who wants to make a statement about it, to give their suggestions, to hear everyone's opinion, so that we can also bring a budget that is in the best interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Next, around the pen and the punishment, you had that question. These are, unfortunately, disputes that the government of the Republic of Serbia or the state of Serbia has lost, which relate to court disputes that began in 2007, 2008, 2009 or 2010. I'll only mention a few, and then if I have to, we'll deliver a detailed list of these pens and fines. So, "Energo-Green" is the arbitration we lost, 3.6 billion dinars are left to pay. By the way, it was about 50m euros, we paid off part this year. This part of the remaining January-February next year entered the budget. "Kunsttrans" – 430 million dinars, the same from seven, eight, nine, ten years ago. “Dunav insurance” – 298 million dinars are lost arbitration. Judgment in favour of AIK Bank – 973 million dinars, judgment in favour of Binačka Morava – in bankruptcy, Vranje, etc., court rulings, forced payment, outstanding obligations of institutions from earlier years, judgments and decisions of the European Court of Human Rights. What is important, everything that exists as a potential commitment of the Serbian state we put in the budget and we didn't want to hide it and be that it doesn't exist, and then from some current budget reserve or somehow different to pay. No, what we know, which is the state, unfortunately, because of the irresponsible policy of the previous government, the irresponsible contracts they signed back then, led us to lose these arbitrations. Of course, we have to pay for it, and in the budget, we left the money for it. I think this is an example of responsible policy and the most transparent possible budget, which is precisely all the knowledge you have and should be put into the budget. About your comments regarding the construction of the Belgrade subway, I will inform you that we are now talking to both the French side and the Chinese side about the various funding modes of building the first line of the Belgrade subway. As you can see, on page nine in Article 3. The budget law also includes a part relating to a phase one in front of the French vault, as you said yourself, you also have an additional 500m euros in phase. I can't tell you at this point what the financial structure of building a Belgrade subway will look like at the end, because I don't know, at this point we're talking about and negotiating it, but we left this amount that we expect if the deal is made in the shortest time period, that we can also go and pay something and that the sooner we start building this, in my opinion, capital investment project, not just for the city of Belgrade, but also for the Republic of Serbia. Again, the most transparent budget possible where everything that exists as a possibility, and not the obligation to do, to repeat it, stands in the budget. I can give you the same answer for the national stadium. I disagree with you here, I think it is a project of great importance for the state of Serbia. You saw the other day and that Albania has its own national stadium, Hungary, other countries, sport has become a big business. We have been running to host both the European and world football championships as a region, as several countries from the region. What is particularly important for the stadium would be a driver for the development of the whole part of Belgrade. The concept we're talking about, and in the next ten days, we're expecting offers from the designers that would deal with this project. So, by half next year, we finish the project, so that we can choose the performer and go into construction. It's not just a stadium, it's a whole concept of a city, a new city that would be built there, along with a number of business facilities and residential facilities, to literally do something like New Belgrade on water and with these sports facilities to further improve sports activities, to give opportunities to both young and old people to play sports, and on the other hand to promote our country if we can attract European competitions and world competitions at the end and the League of Champions or the League of Champions finals, which is our wish at some point. Very seriously, we're accessing this project in a studio way. It's about the whole master plan, I think it's about 600 acres. To develop in the right way when we choose the next two or three weeks of projectors, he will do his job, after which we will, of course, present our master plan idea to the citizens of Serbia and if we get support we will also go to the realization of this capital project. So not only do you raise a whole part of the city, promote sport and give your country a chance and an opportunity to attract a large number of events and events, which, of course, means more tourists, more inflows of foreign exchanges and so on, but also to boost the growth of your GDP because, of course, it means that it's being built again, that the construction industry is and is a driver at this very high growth rate of our country. So that would be another one to say part of a puzzle called a strong construction industry and an additional incentive to grow our economies. That's where I'd end up with your findings that I disagreed with again. The high growth rate in the third quarter of this year is 4.7%, the expected growth rate in the fourth quarter of this year, which is expected to be over 5% with 4.4% of the 2018 growth rate, no longer a coincidence. With the consolidation of our public finances, we should get used to high growth rates. We want to be even more, and four, and five, and five and a half and six, we'll do it together through increased personal consumption, through increased wages and pensions and further intensifying infrastructure works, so rail and road infrastructures in Serbia and further disbursement of the economy in terms of reducing the burden on earnings and other incentives that we do and which are an integral part of this budget. All of this needs to provide us with even more growth rates and I say, with the completion of the consolidation of our public finances where it's very difficult to have any growth rates while the consolidation takes place, we still had relatively high, now moving a new age and a much greater potential for achieving higher growth rates. The third quarter encourages, the fourth one will be even better, and then we fight for even more growth rates in the years ahead. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-20-0.u63947	Thank you, Minister. You want a reply to the Minister's presentation to your colleague Vukadinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-20-0.u63948	Thank you for your response. I'm drawing attention that you've skipped what was about the highway and the corridor and the priorities in that sense, but I'm just going to comment briefly on what you've answered. So I've already told me whatever made those disputes and those debts and those losses, but it's impossible just these seven years, that they all really came from a period of these lost disputes, actually just from a period of previous authorities. But as far as the subway is concerned, so you said don't prejudge, you talk to both the French and the Chinese sides about the Metro project, so I'd say, yes, but the money, or credit line, is withdrawn from the French vault, 80m euros. They don't accidentally give it, just for that Metro project, it's kind of a foot-to-door kind of thing. That's what I think. I don't think we're doing any better at all, and if we're better, we should check, we should see that, the Chinese proposal and the French project. I'm skeptical of both at this point in Belgrade's subway, given the state of Belgrade's infrastructure, including Serbia, and also in the capital itself, I don't think it's on the agenda, and plus, it smells like a prejudication. As far as the stadium is concerned, I'd like to share your optimism, but we have a Belgrade Arena which, as I say, is much more exploited and the sports that play there are much more popular and the possibility of being used as a concert space, so it also works at the limit of rentability and below. I think the odds are zero, flat zero, below zero, so this national stadium could be a cost-effective project. What you said in the end is that it's some kind of new Belgrade on the water, so that's exactly what I'm worried about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-20-0.u63949	Thank you, colleague Vukadinovic. The word has a proposalary representative, Finance Minister Sinisha Mali.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-20-0.u63950	Thank you very much. Well, don't worry too much about me mentioning "Belgrade on Water" should make you happy if you look forward to Serbia's successes. So, from one of the ugliest parts of Belgrade, from the part of Belgrade that no one has ever set foot in, full of snakes and rats and drug addicts, we have built the largest construction site in this part of Europe. Over the next four months, construction of more buildings in a million and fifty-four thousand square meters will be built or currently being built on "Belgrade on Water". It was a huge incentive for our construction industry to change the image of our country. That's why I think the national stadium will do the same. We physibilities study do. So, we didn't build the Arena or what's called the Stark Arena at this point, we're doing the physibilities of the study and we're going to create a sustainable concept of the national stadium, and that's why I said, it's not just about the stadium, but it's about other contents and exhibition space and business facilities and residential facilities just to make the structure and calculate that it's sustainable, that it's not about making losses, but that it's about just making profits for the citizens of Serbia. As far as I'm concerned, the vault and your commentary, you can't ignore the paper that exists when you're making a budget. So there is an offer by the French vault to finance the construction of the Belgrade subway. I can't say as finance minister – there isn't, but I said very responsibly – look, there is, as there are negotiations with others. We're going to put it in the budget, it's not our obligation to sign it, it's a member of the 3rd budget, it's the possibility that if we agreed and signed it, and if it wasn't in the budget, we couldn't even sign anything or negotiate anything. Turns out we're in a bad mood to start negotiations with the French side which we don't want to do. So this is just about the principle of budgeting based on the information you have at that point, which is available to you. It opens up the possibility, in no way does it make a commitment.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-20-0.u63951	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-20-0.u63952	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, first of all, to the Secretary-General, you, under the Law on the Rights of National Minorities, needed to be my previous colleague to provide a translation of the Vlach. It's on the toilet, not on the beach. So it's a grudge. A second complaint, my colleague, here is Arsic's understanding of the weeds, and my colleague's second grudge is because of the highway to Pristina. I see it's fun. So the highway to Pristina is run by Blace, Prokuplje, Kursumli and so on, the end where, I don't know if there are 200 thousand Serbs living. If that highway is not a big question is whether the number of Serbs will survive, but that highway leads to our southern province. One more thing, from Pristina to Tirana, to Drac, it seems to me already built a highway, so don't think that my colleague thinks we're going on foot over Albania all the time, we might go motorized. What if, as tourists, of course, a special kind of tourist, across our southern province nice. Well, according to our cards, well, that we would walk all the time, especially when winter conditions, that we're missing, it's our turn to take the highway. I see. He finds that funny. He hasn't won the lottery in a long time, so I guess that's why he finds it funny. As for the budget, my colleague could say at a time when he was winning the lottery, in a republican budget in the same state with a higher number of taxpayers, there were more citizens, as they claim, gathered in 2012, it was planned to raise 824 billion, with a deficit of 50 billion, as I remember it was in the end 150 billion. It was that pre-election budget he tried to talk about here, but it wasn't until 2020. Now in the same state, with the same tax rates, with the same exchange rate of 117 dinars, something comes together, at 1,314 billion. So 490 billion are being gathered more, it is planned to gather and I believe it will gather, than it was in 2012 in the same country with a smaller number of taxpayers, at the same rate and the same tax rate. Now I could ask if the reason for forgetting is to win the games for happiness from the DS and Boris Tadic and forget that they have raised 490 billion less, which means that somewhere those 490 billion have gone, i.e. that was 4.1 billion euros. So that's where those highways went, so they couldn't build those 320 kilometers, and now we hear their objections. Also in 2012, the pre-election budget for 2012 for pensions, pension donations, the budget amounted to 278 billion and 400 million, therefore, for lower pensions, 278 billion. For the next year, for larger pensions, for increased pensions, pensions are planned to reach 157 billion, so 121 billion less, but for larger pensions of 5%. What does that show? That shows he's a larger number of employees. They constantly dispute that employment has increased, as people have moved away, but the growth of income in PIO has caused a lower budget grant, less burden for some other citizens, which Mr. Arsic knows, and how unlike my colleague. So there's been an increase in employment, and income shows that the people have come to money. The biggest taxpayers are citizens, consumers. All previous taxes are collected at the price of a particular product and when you pay something at the cash register, you have actually paid all previous taxes that are charged to entrepreneurs and included in the previous part. So it's obvious that citizens have more money, that wages have jumped, that pensions have jumped, that the higher income in the PIO fund is, by the way, higher employment, which they are persistently slowing down. Also, subsidies in agriculture. I am not satisfied and I have asked for three billion more by amendment, and immediately I want to say that the Committee's conclusion, which cannot be prevented, that all the requirements for the incentives that meet the requirements will be paid in 2020, regardless of whether this 40 billion and 600 million sum is enough. So if that amount is not enough, all farmers who submit the requirements and who meet the requirements of the incentive will again be paid. So that's the conclusion on the board, that's how it's been and being again. Let's see now when it was good luck, but you don't buy happiness, but from Boris Tadic you get millions, and in 2012, the subsidies in agriculture amounted to 19 billion and 945 million, and now it's 40 million and 560, which is an increase of over 100%, that's more than double. The Agrarian Payments Administration, and in 2012, was planned to get 17 billion, and now it's 36.5 billion, more than double. These are the answers to what they say about subsidies being less, that everything was better by 2012, while they ruled, and the figure completely denied them. Finally, to conclude, that the issue of agriculture I insist on is no longer just a matter of demographic agriculture, Serbia has a slightly smaller population, may have even fewer inhabitants, but this year, but it is important that it be evenly distributed across Serbia, that the inhabitants are well enough to be able to manage agricultural primary production and process their results. So I believe that agriculture needs to be invested as much as possible, because it will give its result, it will be a seed from which a mature sweet fruit will come, and when we sell it, then we can share that money to everyone who needs it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-20-0.u63953	The word is made by MP Milena Corilić.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-20-0.u63954	Dear Vice-President, honourable ministers, MPs, the proposal for a budget law of the Republic of Serbia for 2020 with the accompanying financial plans of organisations and mandatory social security are one of the most important documents, such as in front of both the Government and our MPs, making an additional commitment to ensure that such acts are well prepared and thoroughly considered. In the draft budget law for next year, detailed revenue and expenditure in Serbia's budget were provided. Data show that compared to the previous budget, a reduced deficit of over three billion dinars was planned. In the 2020 draft budget, a growth in tax revenue was planned, while a reduction in the various non-tax revenues, such as extraordinary revenues, was planned. Since in the past few years in the Republic of Serbia's budget, thanks to the business of a good host, a surplus has been achieved, we can expect this planned deficit to turn into a surplus. I expect most colleagues to talk about various individual parts of the 2020 budget, so I would like to pay attention to some issues in the area of social security. According to the financial plan of the Republic of PIO Fund for 2020, an increase in total revenues and expenditure is foreseen by 28 billion more compared to what was planned for the 2019 rebalance. When planning revenue and expenditure, the country's economic power and need to further strengthen its economic stability were taken into account. The financial plan for 2020 envisions an increase in revenue from the collection of social contributions to earnings of over 513 billion dinars. It's one of the signals of good economic recovery and its expected further stability. On the other hand, it certainly made it possible to plan to cut the transfer funds by the finance ministry by 16 billion dinars, recently adopted by the rebalance of the Republic of PIO's financial plan, the transfer of funds for 2019 is lower by about seven billion. This suggests that significant efforts are being made in terms of budgetary savings and strengthening the economic stability of the Republic of PIO Fund. It is particularly important to note that the unpopular rate of pension cuts is no longer applied. The budget's participation in pension payments a few years ago was 48.2%. For the past seven years, the transfer of funds has been reduced and is planned to be 22.7% in 2020. In contrast, the participation of social contributions in recent years has had a trend of growth, so it is realistic to plan for this participation to be 73.71% in 2020. It is certainly positive that this financial plan provides for an increase in the funds defined for the payment of pension and disability insurance rights. In this regard, it was noted that the amendment and addition of the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act was to be made. Among the proposed amendments and additions to the law, the most important is the one relating to the obligation to align pensions to so-called pensions. Swiss formula. By applying this formula, harmonising pension levels, pensions are expected to grow over 5%. Under pension and disability insurance rights, an increase in social standard funding is also foreseen. I think that's good, because in 2019, the free use of Banjski spas from the funding of the Republic Fund PIO achieved over 13,500 pensioners. In addition to these funds from the Republic Fund, the PIO contributes to a better standard for the oldest citizens, and more than 1,700,000 can be given by local self-government. They should also provide their plans for next year to help the oldest population. Services in the Republic Fund PIO operate despite the prohibition of permanent employment thanks to a good organisation of work. The Republic Fund of PIO is fully committed to basic work, paying pensions, making decisions as requested, determining the insurance standings. The Fund's satisfactory efficiency is also being addressed by more than 90% in the resolution of requirements in the first-degree procedure within 60 days. The financial plan of the Republic Health Insurance Fund plans to increase revenue and expenditure. At the same time, it is projected on the basis of the current movement and the growth of social contributions. By contrast, a reduction of 34.01% was planned compared to the 2019 plan of donations and transfers from the budget. An increase in funds for primary health care is planned. The National Employment Service's financial plan also plans a reduction in total income and expenditure. As part of the expenditure, a reduction of funds for the achievement of unemployment rights is planned by around two billion. This means that unemployment is expected to continue to decline. From the financial plans given, we can conclude from the area of mandatory social security that significant budget savings are being planned. They can be used for other social purposes. I would point out in particular that the expected increases in the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Labour relating to the regulation and improvement of the work of health institutions, i.e. on the payment of various types of social assistance, which means that savings are planned towards social funds to a significant extent retained in the framework of social policy. Therefore, the PUPS parliamentary group will provide its support for the adoption of this budget and other accompanying documents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-20-0.u63955	Thank you, colleague Corilic. The word has been made by MP Ivan Bauer. Here you go, Comrade Bauer.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-20-0.u63956	I thank the esteemed vice-president, esteemed ministers, fellow MPs and fellow MPs, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the Social Democratic Party of Serbia parliamentary group will, of course, support the draft law on Serbia's 2020 budget in the voting day. Individuals often honor us when we talk about economic successes in the last five, six years since the prime minister became Alexander Vukic to bring out the floscules. I'd like to talk about these particular flossules today, to demystify these accusations and show how much our macroeconomic indicators are better today than they were just five years ago. I also want to show that we are the leader in the region and not only in absolute numbers, but also much more important in relative numbers. Why am I stressing relative numbers? Because probably the on-call critics would say immediately – well, of course, Serbia has the best results since it is the largest country in the region. No, we have the best results because we worked most on ourselves and because we had the courage to carry out the most difficult, painful and unpopular measures. Let's get in line. From 2005 to 2012, the budget deficit grew steadily. Only since 2014, by applying the fiscal consolidation measure, this path has been reversed and already after three years we have a surplus in the budgets. Next year we will have a small deficit, but it will still be the best result in the region, and I would say wider. The participation of external debt, i.e. public debt in GDP, grew steadily in the period 2008 to 2012, which is no wonder, given the irresponsible fiscal policy that was led in the period. I will only give you two illustrating examples, and there are many more, which will show why public debt participation in GDP grew so quickly during that period and why it continued to grow by momentum and in the coming years. The current transaction deficit or current account deficit in 2007, was 17.3% and 20% of GDP was in 2008. In the last few years, this deficit has ranged from 3% to 5%, and next year, this year, it is expected to be slightly larger, but still less than 6%. We're already under criticism that it's dangerous for this deficit to grow. Imagine the danger of the current 20% of GDP account deficit, one-fifth of all that the state of Serbia produces in one year, or all that the state of Serbia produced in that year. In 2007, wages grew in real terms 19.5%, and in 2008 pensions grew 14.2%, again realistically, In nominal amounts, this salary and pension growth was 26% for both. So, salary growth 26% in 2007, pension growth nominally 26% in 2008. We are raising salaries on average this year by less than 10% nominal and the Fiscal Council criticises us that we are thereby jeopardising macroeconomic stability. Imagine how we put Serbia's financial stability at risk when we increased salaries and pensions by 26%, and that we had no real basis for that, or foundation in public revenues, unlike the current increase, it is seen from our fiscal outcome and that it has a basis in public revenues. This path of public debt participation in GDP has only changed since 2015, because when it comes to public debt, that is, their fact has been slightly delayed, but since then it has been steadily reduced. And today we have a situation where the participation of public debt in GDP is converting to the values prescribed by the Budgetary System Act. At this point, BiH alone has a lower share of public debt in GDP. When we talk about the unemployment rate, it has been growing steadily since 2008-2012, and at the same time, of course, the employment rate has dropped. As early as 2013, this path has been reversed, the unemployment rate is dropping and today we can say that the unemployment rate is at a historical minimum, or according to the latest available data it is 10.3%, and it will likely fall in the third quarter and below 10%. I should not say that Serbia has the lowest unemployment rate in the Western Balkans region. At the same time, our employment rate has been growing continuously, which is evidenced by the fact that in the last five years we have 250,000 newly employed, or if you will, formally newly employed, because, of course, one part of them is those who have moved from the gray zone to the white zone. But I think that's the result of the respect. Because why didn't some others reform all the inspections and strengthen the work of the inspection bodies, so they had a bigger flow into the budget on that basis? This is not about the unemployment rate or any changes in the methodology for calculating the unemployment rate, nor the reduction in the unemployment rate based on Serbia's emigration. Of course, moving out of Serbia contributes partly to that, but to a lesser extent. And that's what the World Bank testifies to, and therefore, not our data. The World Bank says moving out of Serbia over the past few years has been shrinking, and it is also said that the trend is expected to continue to decline, so it will continue to reduce the number of people moving out of Serbia. When we talk about employment, if someone doesn't believe in the data of the Republic Bureau of Statistics and their way of measuring employment, I don't think there's a better way to check whether employment is growing than to look at the Central Register of Obligation Social Security. You see here best based on paid contributions whether employment is growing, and how it is growing. Foreign direct investment this year is expected to reach a level of 3.7m and 3.8m euros, the region's best recorded score. We're only one step away from the so-called. Investment rating. What does that mean for us? That good credit rating we've got has been replayed on our national Eurobonds emission, which was 1.5%. For example, in the last year, three other countries in the region have been broadcasting Eurobonds -- Northern Macedonia, Albania and Montenegro. Their yield rates were between 3% and 3.5%. So is there a better indicator than that these three countries owe more than twice as much as we do? Indicators of how investors look at us. When it comes to export coverage, it never reached 60% by 2012, and in 2004, it was only 32.8%. After a change in government, already in 2013, thanks to a strong growth in exports by 25.8%, the coverage of imports with exports has crossed 70% and continued to grow in the coming period. At this point, our export coverage is about 75%. The data comparable to ours in the region has only Macedonia. For example, Croatia is at 60% and Montenegro is only 15% when it comes to export coverage. On the "Ding Business List" of the World Bank we have made progress this year, as well as in previous years, and we are now in 44th place. It doesn't matter what place we're in, it matters who's behind us. And behind us are such powers when it comes to gross domestic product or gross domestic product per capita such as Belgium, Italy and Luxembourg, but also countries of the region, from Croatia, via Hungary, Romania, Bulgaria, Greece, Albania, Montenegro to Bosnia and Herzegovina. Finally, something very important for us, the Social Democrats, is that in the last five years, i.e. since 2014, we are constantly, again according to the World Bank's data, the poverty rate has been reduced. This level of macroeconomic stability and the results we have achieved give us the opportunity to reduce the restrictiveness of fiscal policy, i.e. to increase the expansion of fiscal policy in the coming period. And thanks to that, we will be in the 2020 budget, or we have already adopted it, but it will start to apply since the end of this year, so we are increasing pensions and salaries in a significant amount, regardless of the criticism of the Fiscal Council, and I would say that this increase is fully justified and we are increasing the minimum labour price, which is working to further improve citizens' living standards. We are also entering the process of gradual tax decommissioning, which is very important for our employers, but we are making sure that we do not in any way endanger the results of the difficult fiscal consolidation measures. When I say "hard," I think they were too heavy for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. So we send a good signal to investors through this reduction that in the coming period they can invest more, they can increase employment and, in the end, they can increase wages in the private sector. And let me get this straight. After a period of five years, difficult for citizens, first of all, the measure of fiscal consolidation, I think we can say that we have finally circled this process. In the coming years, our budgets can be developmental, not like so far, less or more restrictive. Of course we will continue, in co-operation with the IMF, and for the sake of maintaining the credibility of our macroeconomic policy and reputation, that is, our international position, to continue to lead a responsible fiscal policy, to further improve our credit rating and to continue to advance on all reference lists that measure the economic performance of the countries, but also to remain a leader in the region when it comes to the rate of unemployment, attracting investment, GDP growth and all other indicators I have talked about. And to repeat once again, of course, the Social Democratic Party of Serbia parliamentary group will support the draft law on the Republic of Serbia's 2020 budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-20-0.u63957	Thank you, colleague Bauer. The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-20-0.u63958	Thank you. Dear Chairman, honourable ministers, allow me to say a few words on behalf of the SPS about the draft law on the Republic of Serbia's 2020 budget. First of all, to point out that our parliamentary group in the voting day will vote for this bill. Namely, this draft budget law, as well as any draft budget law of any country, is an indicator of the economic situation of a country, a government-led policy and the measures it intends to take in the area of economic development, but the government's attitude towards all segments of society shows in fact the philosophy of government governance shows practically its programme. I have to say that we Socialists are talking about a good document, a good budget that, first of all, is the continuity of a quality government work from previous years, because with the past budget we have completed a period of financial consolidation and now the government is taking one step forward. This is about a stable budget because you're wasting what you have. It should be noted that the budget is well planned, that the deficit is 20 billion or 0.5% at the general state level and at the republican level of 0.3%. This shows that there has been stable economic growth in Serbia for several years. This is also confirmed by projections of GDP growth for 2020, which are 4%, as well as an average inflation of 2%. The good condition of our economy or at least the trend of economic development is also a decline in the unemployment rate. It's expected to fall below 10%. The unemployment rate at the end of the second quarter was 10.3%. It was halved compared to 2012 and that the economic environment in Serbia is favourable also shows the attraction of foreign direct investment. Last year, it was 3.5 billion euros in foreign direct investment, up to now 2.8 billion euros. I mentioned all of this to point to a stable economic situation in Serbia, which is absolutely due to this government. The indicator of such a situation is also the structure of the budget that is in front of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which we are discussing. In fact, this budget has two elements that show or confirm the developmental character of the budget. One is investments that have been increased from 220 to 260 billion dinars and, above all, in the project in the area of infrastructure. Of course, there are others. I will also talk about education later, but also about increasing employees' salaries, which is a reflection of increasing the standard of living of citizens, which will, of course, be the conditions for increasing production. Let me also, as chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee, say two sentences concerning part of the budget relating to external affairs. I would like to praise the fact that the government and the entire state summit have recognised the importance of foreign-political activities that improve the international position and international reputation of the Republic of Serbia, so that the 2020 budget will allocate more funds for these purposes, which will, of course, allow for increased diplomatic activity. It is concern about Serbia's assets abroad and the construction of DKP facilities where we did not get these facilities in the process of succession, because diplomatic presence in the largest number of states at DKP level is important for strengthening Serbia's bilateral relations with many countries in the world, especially today when we have a problem just declared "Kosovo", the undisputed importance of diplomatic relations with all EU member states is undeniable. That this is important also shows the process of withdrawing Kosovo's recognition, which has been intense, especially in the last four years, because so far 16 countries have withdrawn recognition so-called. "The States of Kosovo". Another important area I would like to pay more attention to and which shows, in fact, what the government is planning to do with part of the budget, is education, the most important resource of a country. The budget envisions a significant level of funding for investment in the field of education, but not only that. If we find that increased salaries in the public sector, i.e. part of the budget is intended to increase wages, that a significant part of the funding is allocated to investments, then through the other structure of the education budget, we can clearly see the government's strategy, which is dedicated to improving the quality of education, and at different levels, from pre-school levels of education to primary, secondary and higher education. All the elements of the education system are covered by the budget and, in my view, in the best possible way. I'd like to start by mentioning investment in the education sector. The 2020 budget planned 22 billion dinars, almost 60% more than in 2010. I've calculated, it's about 186m euros. If it is considered that, according to EU standards, building a medium-sized school costs 2.5m euros, it turns out, if these funds only apply to the construction of new schools, that they can make 73-74 new schools, which is a very important thing. In fact, the funds will also be used for schools, for their improvement in quality, because improving quality in schools is an integral part of improving the education system. It should also be mentioned that within the budget of the Public Investment Management Office, additional funding has been allocated for planning to renovate dozens of primary and secondary schools. It is important to mention, as part of improving the quality of the education system, that the means allocated to education that is planned, this should, above all, be mentioned, equipping digital classrooms in order to apply digital teaching content in the course. In fact, the number of digital classrooms in 2020 should be 20,000, and according to the budget projection, according to data, in 2021, that number would increase to 30,000 classrooms, and in 2022 to 33,000. This, of course, involves increasing the number of teachers involved in this, but not automatically increasing the number of employees, but objectively rerouting them to this area, because there is professional training within the educational system. An important part, a segment of improving the quality of education in the Republic of Serbia, is the government's intention to restore complete computer equipment in the computer cabinets of primary and secondary schools and to connect an even greater number of schools via wireless internet. It is planned to be about 500 in 2019, so that the total number of schools connected to the fast internet on September 1, 2020 would be around 1,000 schools, which would be more than 50% of all schools, since there are around 1,800 primary and secondary schools. As a good example of improving the quality of education and education, I must say that the budget envisions all those measures which, for example, would increase the coverage of children at the level of education, which would increase the percentage of pupils who entered the first grade of primary school. The budget is very detailed on this data. Then, preventing a student from being dissipated from the education system. Then, increasing schools in professional work, increasing the percentage of schools that meet the quality standards of work of institutions, both in pre-school institutions, primary schools, high school, art schools, professional schools, students' homes. An increase, of course, in the number of employees who received training from the field of inclusion, prevention of violence and discrimination, prevention of student rash. All this speaks of one government intention to make the education system as high as possible. I'd like, in the end, to mention two other things about higher education. According to the structure of the Republic of Serbia's 2020 budget, it will see little increase in the coming years, but the number of students to be funded by the state will increase, based on both master and master studies. So in 2020, their number will be about 53,000. This increase also refers to master studies. It is important to mention that under the financing of higher education institutions, the government of the Republic of Serbia will finance the full work of the University of Pristina based in Kosovo Mitrovica, which I consider very important for several reasons, because while students are in Kosovo Mitrovica, Serbia will be present in every way. I think it's a great thing the government of the Republic of Serbia does. In one word, the government supported all of the good projects that exist by seizing out in the field of education, increasing the number of users. I would also mention the project "World in Serbia", but I would also mention "Serbia for Serbs from the region". I would mention, although that may sound a little strange, but the number of teachers who will be engaged, who will be a university teacher in Chinese language in those schools who want to do so. In one word, a lot of good things have been done in the field of education, we really should commend the government for that. The least we can do, we SPS MPs, is vote on this draft budget for 2020 in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-20-0.u63959	Thank you, colleague Obradovic. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-20-0.u63960	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't know why there was no feeling and understanding that the time foreseen for independent MPs would double, because we certainly have these so modest five minutes, and she was even afraid that we wouldn't steal from this time that MP groups had in abundance. I don't think many of them will be able to spend it. But now we're here and what's there. The People's MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party express the joy of having a clear intensification of this draft budget towards development, investment and the use of the overall process of economic and economic stabilisation. It is something that promises, rejoices and should certainly be supported by amendment interventions, but also in the day to vote in favour of this draft budget. What I want to point to is actually what we're witnessing. We have been in Sandzak's space for several years, which through budget proposals, through certain official information by the government, however, we have a permanent delay and a delay in significant projects, i.e. investments. I don't know why in general, when it comes to highway construction projects, why are we usually going from the middle to the edges? Let's make an exception somewhere, and we'll head from the periphery to the center. That would be very good in every way. Here, look what's going on with Corridor 11, who we're waiting for in Sandzak like a frozen sun. So we have almost already signed contracts or certain other steps all the way to Požega, and from Požega further towards Ivanjica, Dugi Poljana and Bjekari we have nothing. So it sends one not-so-optimal message to all the citizens in that space, which continues, despite everything that's been happening to them, one whole century remains somehow on the seal, on the periphery, almost communicably isolated. We also see that the pipeline, which we are very looking forward to, is late. It would be very important to take all these moments into account and to make further efforts by the government to intensify the implementation of these projects. I'm just, I don't know, boring myself when I ask what's up with the pompously announced New Pazar-Tutin. It was August, then September, so we don't have a month anymore. We had some kind of remote electronic job opening and almost nothing on the ground. I think that more important attention should be given to the Sanjay space, especially when we consider that we have daily joyful information from various other cities, in the establishment, that is, the creation of new factories, new jobs. It's simple, once you've passed Rusk, and you've gone all the way to Pryboy, you almost don't have any new factories. I don't think we can keep this quiet. We must raise our voice in this direction, because it is very important that all these positive messages that come to us in terms of economic development, economic, financial stabilisation and projects, in this respect, in fact, evenly in all parts of the country, we send a positive message, especially to those parts of the country that are interesting, both well-intentioned and malicious. There needs further attention, further efforts to finally feel from these announced programmes and concrete effects, at least for one aspect that is possible to be realised from the position of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and I am aware that certain segments are responsible for local administrations facing numerous problems, which is subjective, which is objective. But, of course, I want to draw attention to this, it's of great importance. It is important that we also have an increase in education funds, with the fact that I think it is especially necessary for state universities to pay attention to how these funds are spent and specifically focused on the resources that would benefit talent. In this regard, I would also like to congratulate all the Sandzak days of Sandzak and the world at the same time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-20-0.u63961	Thank you. Natasa Mihailović Vacic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-20-0.u63962	Thank you, Chairman. I will not repeat what my esteemed colleagues have said, that the budget is developmental, that serious allocations are foreseen for capital investment. It's a good thing he came before time, before the MPs got used to it somehow. So I'm not gonna do it again. I would just briefly refer to the funds that are defined for culture and information. In fact, the draft budget singled out 13.3 billion dinars, which accounts for 0.74% of total expenditure and expenditure. UNESCO recommends as a minimum for the sustainable development of a national culture 1%. I believe we'll reach that 1% next year. From year to year, as much as possible, the culture budget increases. I'm sorry he's not at least 1% this year. But, according to individual programme activities and projects, the largest amounts are planned this time to support the work of institutions in the area of protection and preservation of cultural heritage. This is what 3.5 billion dinars or 26% of total funds are planned for. I look forward to the fact that the most money this year has been allocated to preserve cultural heritage, because it is the immaterial cultural heritage that is the main driver of cultural diversity. The cultivation and transfer of cultural heritage also preserves the history and culture and traditions and the identity of a nation and provides, certainly, its continuity. Unfortunately, we have witnessed over the past years that not enough good presentation and promotion and poor working conditions in institutions dealing with the protection of the immaterial cultural heritage have made cultural heritage somehow on the social margin. I believe that, thanks to these funds in the budget, in the coming year, the ministry will pay more attention to the need for raising and social awareness of the value and importance of the immaterial cultural heritage in the area. Compared to this year, the amount was reduced by a billion and 120 million for 2020. It's important to mention that. The reduction relates to the lack of planned funding for the budget next year for the co-financing and renovation of RTV, and the funding for RTS subsidies has been reduced by 950 million, which is actually the result, as the public service financial reports say for the previous year, of the good functioning of the payment of the subscription, so it is estimated that this amount foreseen for 2020 will be more than enough for the optimal and basic work of the Public Service. The largest item, in addition to cultural heritage institutions, is directed at cultural institutions, 6,887,300,000 dinars. The draft budget law also shows that the restoration and protection of Hilandar is intended for 80 million, the maintenance of a court complex on the Dedinj 62 million, as well as for the digitisation of cultural heritage. The work of the Serbian Matica is supported by 51 million and library information work with 55 million. Protecting and preserving the immaterial heritage, as I said, is intended for the most, almost 147 million dinars. I think that's pretty good. As I said, it was important that we just look briefly at the planned 2020 budget for the area of culture and information. I would like to reiterate that the SDPS parliamentary group will support next year's draft budget in voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-20-0.u63963	Thank you. The word is made by a representative of Proposer Minister Sinisha Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-20-0.u63964	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, I'd just like to clarify, perhaps I didn't hear well, and only because of you. So the total culture budget for 2020 is set at 13.3 billion dinars. When you compare that to the total revenue of 1,334 billion, you get to the amount of 0.995%. So we are at 1% of the budget, i.e. the participation of the culture budget in the total budget. I heard 0,70 and something, so I apologize if I didn't hear it correctly, and it's very important to me, because I heard it somewhere in public. It would be good if our total investment in culture was 1% of the budget, so it's bigger in the 2020 budget, I say 0.995% which I can say is almost 1%, or 1%, respectively. In doing so, two are much more important things that I want to mention, and they are related to culture. One thing is that this amount does not include investments in cultural infrastructure of 2.4 billion and investment in a new concert hall of 14.1 billion dinars. So not only is our budget 1% of our total budget, our culture budget, but we also have 2.4 billion additional investments in the infrastructure that is related to culture and the construction of the concert hall of 14.1 billion dinars. Perhaps the other thing is even more important, which is the increase in public sector wages for workers who are employed in the field of culture 10%, which is more than the largest number of other employees who are 8% on average, which is an increase in wages that has been launched and that has been realised since November of this year. So, with a 10% salary increase, we show how much we care about people who are employed in culture being paid better, getting paid more, and this is a concrete example of our contribution to cultural development. With these investments in infrastructure, I think better days are coming for culture. The reason you have less subsidies for RTS, which is good news for Serbian citizens, which is less money, so that's completely justified, and we've focused that money on other things. So the culture 1% relative to income is already there, higher wages by 10%, more than in other parts of the public sector and, on the other hand, an additional 2.4 billion in infrastructure and a 14.1 billion investment in the concert hall and the construction of a concert hall in Belgrade. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-20-0.u63965	Thank you, Minister. Comrade Vacic, would you like a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-20-0.u63966	Just to thank the minister for this clarification. I think it is extremely important that you have explained this, because in public appearances and in our data, very conflicting information about this percentage of the separation for culture and it is an extraordinary pleasure to hear from you that better days for culture are yet to come. I just want to say once again that I'm extremely pleased and I think it's important that the most money is allocated for 2020 for cultural institutions. Therefore, the increase in wages and not only wages but also general working conditions in cultural institutions and, of course, institutions dealing with the protection of cultural heritage. Once again, the SDPS parliamentary group's voting day will support the 2020 budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-20-0.u63967	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Snezana Paunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-20-0.u63968	I thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers with associates, respected colleagues, dear citizens and citizens of Serbia, we are discussing the Republic of Serbia's 2020 budget and can speak freely of yet another quality balanced income and expenditure for next year. Serbia, or the coalition in power over the past seven years, has been leading Serbia's economic prosperity policy, but also strengthening Serbia's international reputation and position in the world, resulting in the support of a large number of states, both our traditional friends and those who have not been so far. I would particularly stress here the support of most of the world for our policy, which, above all, concerns Kosovo and Metohija, right at the moment when many thought the topic was closed. In this regard, I support the further commitment of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to separate more funds in order to strengthen Serbia's foreign-political position, as we know that it is serious foreign-political activities of the state-run and foreign ministers, above all, when it comes to withdrawing recognition and that is what Prof. Zarko Obradovic, but it is never too much to say that at this point the fake state of Kosovo recognises less than 2/3 of the population of the planet. This budget, as well as several previous ones, is the result of the achieved macroeconomic stability and GDP growth that allows for higher revenues, but also leaves the country's greater overall investment for all budget sectors. So the planned budget deficit of 20 billion dinars is 0.3% of GDP, which confirms that the level of macroeconomic stability is achieved, and will significantly affect a reduction in the public debt of the state that will drop to below 50% of GDP. The financial projection of the increase in budget revenues, above all, from excise duties and profit taxes, is realistic, as is the increase in public sector wages codified by the budget rebalance for this year, also the result of a positive budget balance. What I would like to commend is the discharge of employers by cutting taxes and contributions they pay for PIO and health insurance to employees, as well as the relief that the state offers for new employment. This should be stimulating for new employment, but also for reducing work on black or trial work, which unfortunately practices an increasing number of employers to avoid paying tax obligations. This government, through a multi-year policy of fostering economic growth, either direct investment, or economic incentives, has bridged the deficit found in the Republic's budget through subsidies, and has gone into consolidation first and then into development. So, this budget is also a developmental one, and it will be a path for the next fiscal budget period when even greater GDP growth is planned. In my presentation, I will look back on the sector of economy, energy, trade and tourism, given that I am a member of a resolution committee dealing with these issues. The division of the Ministry of Economy in 2020 receives a significantly smaller amount of funding, but this does not mean that the funds are unduly reduced. This confirms the fact that in the coming year, the economy will have to fight more and more independently for a competitive position on the market. On the other hand, in the following year, the state was defined to invest more funds, almost twice as much in supporting the development of entrepreneurship, which means supporting small and medium-sized producers who are supposed to become the bearer sector of domestic economy and support for large developmental, infrastructure projects that are now mobilising small producers. The fact is that the privatisation process has not yet been completed in Serbia, that it has been extended. At this point, it is another 83 companies in various privatisation stages, but it is good that the state recognises the fact that the assets and brands of these companies should not just be sold out, but find strategic partners and where it is possible to continue production. The budget also allocates funds for credit support to these companies, as well as for managing privatisation procedures, when it comes to them. What is important is that in the economy, it takes care of regional development, of equating regional development wherever possible, the opening of more factories with domestic capital or direct foreign investment should aim to demetapolise and develop underdeveloped areas, in order to stop the emptying of smaller areas and rural areas. The only uniform economic development that Serbia can become economically stronger and more developed, as otherwise further pressure on large cities, in terms of migration, would be counterproductive. There's a lot of pressure on the infrastructure. The expansion of cities by turning agricultural land into construction land, I'm sure, over a long period of time, would have no good effect. With economy and agriculture, there is also a significant resource for tourism that becomes a bearing sector in security of a clean foreign exchange inflow. That is why I will refer to tourism as the development potential of Serbia and the resources allocated in the budget for the development of tourism, the development of a tourist offer, or a tourist product. Serbia has a lot of potential, practically everything but the sea, has become a very demanding and attractive destination and, when I say so, I mean Belgrade first and foremost, mountains, type Kopalnik and Zlatibor, spa and other historical and cultural heritage that attracts more and more tourists, especially foreign ones. That is why more attention must be paid to the quality and diversity of this tourist offer, as this is the only way to make us attractive and competitive besides other European destinations. Compared to a period several years ago, Serbia has progressed, and the financial effect is unequivocally better, but this is an even greater obligation, and this requires an even more committed relationship between the state to exploit the potentials it has across Serbia. Tourism is one of the business branches that would significantly contribute to equating development, because by nature the most attractive destinations are in underdeveloped areas, i.e. in untouched nature. The fact is that Serbia has truly experienced a tourist boom, with some 3.4 million tourists visiting 2018 and earning an income of nearly 1.5 billion dollars. This year's goal is to make 10 million overnights, and I firmly believe that's how it's going to be. My colleagues will also talk about other parts of the Republic of Serbia's budget in the course of the session. What I want to say and to conclude with that, when it comes to tourism, is that tourism and everything that is planned is going on and the fact that Novi Sad is the cultural capital of 2020 when Europe is asking a question and that it will contribute greatly. People's SPS MPs will certainly support the 2020 budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-20-0.u63969	Thank you, colleague Paunovic. The word has the People's Messenger Muamer Bacevac. He's not there. The word is made by the People's Messenger, Milisav Petronijevic. Here's a colleague of Petronievich's.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-20-0.u63970	The esteemed chairman, respected ministers, with associates, respected fellow MPs, is the budget of a document telling the figures what kind of policy to be led. It simply answers the question of where Serbia is going. That is precisely what I would like from several angles to explain why the SPS, and I, as its MP, will support the draft budget law for 2020. Before that, a few words about what precedes the 2020 budget. In 2019, the government had great activities and a clear policy, a firm defence and determined implementation managed to achieve significant results both on the external political agenda and on the internal agenda, in this case by implementing economic policy, but I want to draw your attention to another, I think it is a very important thing for Serbia right now, and this is a constant commitment, a responsible struggle between the president of the Republic of Serbia and the government to return faith in Serbia, to our Serbia, that Serbia has the potential, to know that it can both today and more powerful, stronger, organised and won both on the internal and international agenda. Mr. Minister, I'm not saying that to praise you. Thank you for your information, your facts, your arguments. I'm just passing them on. Here are just a few -- at this point Serbia is in a position where economic activity is accelerating. Capital investments are being intensified. The growing economy. The fiscal deficit is shrinking. Public debt is on the way down. Unemployment is approaching a single-digit rate. It's growing employment. Earnings record growth and nominal and real, and inflation remains both low and stable. That's it. Now we have a situation that the government is entering the 2020 budget with the results -- the capital that it has acquired this year, with the citizens' confidence that we are on the right track and, of course, with significant experience. It also encourages us and proves that this budget will be implemented to the end. The 2020 budget, where the basic data are 0.3% deficit, 50% public debt participation, 4% growth in economy, inflation 2% and not counting further, speaks only briefly – stable and responsible. The budget, which is ahead of us, confirms that the government remains focused, that its main objectives are to improve the economic environment and ensure high levels of economic growth with the ultimate goal of reducing unemployment and raising the living standards of the population. As a confirmation, I will only stick to three key features of budgetary policy in 2020. First, the increase in living standards, i.e. the increase in wages and pensions. Secondly, the incentive is growing by increasing public investment. Third, tax discharge. Just to draw attention to the increase in wages from 8% to 15% in the public sector, the 5.4% pension is a stronger purchasing power of the household and stimulates the internal demand, and this also promotes growth, which remains the primary goal of this government. What can I say about increasing public investment when capital allocations are 260 billion dinars, never again. I can even say that the budget is the investment budget. When it comes to wages, it should also be added that in addition to the increase, the minimum labour price has increased by three thousand to 30,022 dinars and I want to draw attention to the controversy over wages in the public administration. Please, our position is – public administration is not just a cost to this country that does nothing to the maltene. That's not true. These are significant institutions. These are important institutions and we need both efficient and strong and professional and efficient public administration. That's why it's important to be between the rest and paid, and that's why I think it's important, I know it's a lot of work, but next year it's going to have to end that project of the Payments Act. Thirdly, when it comes to incentives in the economy, they refer to tax redundancies. By dispersing the economy through an increase in the non-taxable profit, by reducing the income tax from 62% to 61%, or 13 billion dinars, at the same time, but at the same time, it means that it encourages our businesses to increase growth and increase employment. That's why it's very important. It is important for a simple reason, and that in the next period, the legislation will go further into redistributing the economy when it comes to labour obligations. So, within that third objective, I remain, and strongly support this strategic goal of the government, that reducing unemployment is one of the government's most important objectives and, accordingly, I must say, that it will get our full support. All that I've said so far means that the budget is developmental, that it promotes economic growth, but on the other hand it also allows for a better quality of life for Serbian citizens. I would just like to conclude that this budget and the social responsibility of the budget are both, and when it comes to social data giving, in the budget that is set out for next year and in the broader sense of social policy, and I want to give recognition to the Government on social responsibility when drawing up this budget and, of course, as a member of the SPS, I am giving strong support on this issue. In the end, just for a little while. The budget, this, the present, actually paints the present state and announces the future, as I said, is the right direction and the way to the future. This much he can and he's real, he's not a list of good wishes, he's real. The government has seen real problems and offered real answers to the issues it has faced. I want to give full support to the government on this clear goal and I want to draw attention to the need to watch over this minority budget monthly and react if there is a derogation. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-20-0.u63971	Thank you, fellow Petronievich. The People's Messenger Mirko Krlić has the word. Here you go, colleague Krlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-20-0.u63972	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister, I suppose when this Section 29 comes to order, and when you need to consider the budget, part of the culture budget, that it's never easy, because culture is never enough, and there's never too much of that nation, or that people who are going to say that culture is over his head. Every dollar invested is welcome, but of course it has to be real. Mrs. Vacić Mihajlović, a member of the Committee on Culture, said a lot, and you responded in the right way, so that this room of manoeuvre was cut short for me not to repeat myself, but I have to tell you that the Committee on Culture and Information, although there is no obligation as the Committee on Finance and other committees, was still considering this Section 29, for the reason why we needed to be explained what was going on that one billion and 200 million, as much as Mrs. Vacic mentioned here, is less than it was in 2019. Of course, I thank your co-workers from the Ministry of Finance who came to the Committee and made it very clear that it is primarily about the fact that the Public Service of Serbia can now finance itself in a stable manner, and the second that we have completed one project called the RTV and that the completion of the project means that in 2020 there is no need for this separation anymore. Now it is clear to me why those who, just from those televisions that our MP Marijan Risticevic has often mentioned, are crying for the culture budget, which is reportedly significantly reduced. I don't know if you can look at it, there's a show called "Mental Movement", which is broadcast every day and where we have it, I'd rather say mental retardation, where we have two journalists trying, probably a failed actor who hasn't enrolled in the academy, who sits next to each other and has been discussing the culture budget for two days, and they're talking about a reduction and they're complaining about a Serbian culture that's going down. It's just that they're not used to the completion of projects. They're used to Hetherland. They're used to a project going on and never investing anything in it, and they're used to putting money in their pockets for the project. Mr. Minister, I have had the opportunity to see, of course not in this composition of the Ministry of Culture, and not in this composition of the Ministry of Culture, to see a commission project adopted by the Commission for the Allocation of Funds, a project for the separation of theatre art on which it was written - a project in an attempt, i.e. project in development. White paper on which only the name and last name of the lady who handed over this project that doesn't exist, which is just white paper. I won't mention the name of the lady, because unfortunately she's dead, and it's a significant name of our culture. But I mean, if the late Nusic got out of the grave, he would never allow himself to write a project in an attempt or project in development or project. First, he's a serious man, so he wouldn't even let himself. But they're used to being able to share money and it's not clear to them that there's a much more serious way. Now that I mention theatre art, I'm going to say something about budget users. Of course, most of the budget you have foreseen for the development of institutions and it is very important that what the Prime Minister said at the outset, that this government wants to attach special importance to culture and how important it is that we are all aware at this point. However, there is this immaterial side, investment in projects in culture, which often, I know that you as finance minister don't need to control it, but some control needs to be introduced. I will draw your attention only to a few individuals who these days represent Serbian culture in the worst possible way. One of them is Kokan Mladenovic, we heard every day some of his new political statements, from raising the armed revolution to the next that Serbia has everything from culture and its history is a dog chasing its own tail, etc. You know, it's just amazing that such people are culturetreggers, and I now risk talking about some political statements of certain people that you can say, or someone else will say, that they still have their artistic weight and that artistic weight exceeds their political attitudes. Unfortunately, it's getting more and more from this branch, the theater branch, people on the political scene than the scene they're supposed to be on, and we're all witnesses. But I'm just going to say one example for all the people in the public who are following culture these days, Kokan Mladenovic, besides that famous performance in Leskovac where younger Trifunović is tearing up the national flag, has staged the "San of the Summer Night", Shakespeare's play. It's a performance for anyone who knows little about theater and loves Shakespeare, a play that mostly speaks about freedom of expression, freedom of opinion, it's an optimistic performance that Shakespeare puts in court by showing society with a lot of optimism. Kokan Mladenovic put the same play in prison by showing what he thinks of this society and what he thinks of this country, what he thinks of this government. Kokan Mladenovic plays the show at the National Theatre, at the National Theatre for the people who pay for it and who chose this power, mocking all of us, mocking the authorities. How much an artist Kokan Mladenovic is, I'll just say that a few years ago, Mr Komlenski knows the name of the pole, by representatives of Atelije 212, the actor, his colleague, was kicked out of the theatre where he unfortunately inherited a great Mira Trailovic, Jovan Cirilova, Muzio Draskovic. They had to catch him by the ears and kick him in the ass, because the other one wasn't there. Twice, the great Dragan Gaga Nikolic, himself a witness, asked for the reception of the mayor of Gilas to solve the problem of one Klokan, but there was no hearing of such a large name as the late Dragan Gaga Nikolic. I had to say all of this just because we can no longer allow heterlenda, that we can no longer allow the clocans, that we have to take care of who these users of this money that the people stand out for culture and how that culture will be directed in the future. Since, here, there's a colleague of mine who can't wait until the time he gets the word, I guess he'll vote for this budget, too, and that'll be just fine. I will personally provide you with tickets to the "Summer Night's Dream" theatre, and I want you to defend the new budget in 2021, and I want you to realize that this part of the job has been successfully completed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-20-0.u63973	Thank you, colleague Krlic. The word has a proposalary representative, Finance Minister Sinisha Mali. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-20-0.u63974	Thank you very much. Dear Members of Parliament, let me just refer to what the honourable Messenger had the opportunity to say. Unlike the previous government, those who closed the National Museum and the Museum of Contemporary Art, we both opened the museum. I also opened a theatre in Vranja "Bora Stankovic", I had a personal opportunity with the president and to be there, and by 2020 I will read you a short list of activities we are planning in the field of culture. So they'll never invest in culture again, especially in a culture-related infrastructure. So during 2020 you have a whole series of activities related to Novi Sad and the fact that Novi Sad is the European capital of culture. The National Theatre in Subotica, we will bring to an end the works at the theatre as well. We are working to prepare for the construction of the most modern concert hall in Belgrade, Belgrade does not have such a hall. The "Ložionica" creative centre in Belgrade is also in the plan for next year, the alternative scene of the National Theatre, the reconstruction of the House of the Army and the redesign of the Cultural Centre in Pirote, the creative embassy in London, the establishment of the legislation of Vladimir Veličković and the opening of the gallery at Kosančić's wedding, preparing for the construction of the Faculty of Music Art, which will solve the decades-old problem associated with the temporary and unconditional accommodation of young musicians. So we think about culture in the long term. I just said, salaries for cultural employees have been increased by 10%, which is more than 8% of the amount for which the highest number of public administration employees has been increased. So, and here we show how much we care about culture and I think that with these investments in infrastructure, in increasing wages in the right way, through figures and through the 2020 budget, we show how much the Government of the Republic of Serbia is committed to this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-20-0.u63975	Thank you, Minister. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go, colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-20-0.u63976	I thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers with the co-worker, respected fellow MPs, bearing in mind that the majority of my distinguished colleagues from the SPS group, including the authorised representative Dusan Bajatovic, has very Decidently pointed out that our parliamentary group will unequivocally support the Budget Law. In my discussion, I will only limit myself to certain segments of this law, which I consider to be very important, of course, not much less important than the others, but in any case something that for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia should be a sign of respect for what the Government of the Republic of Serbia has done. It's about local self-government, state administration and justice. When I talk about justice, of course it is a subject that is quite burdensome, given that the judiciary has long been carrying the mortgage of an extremely poor situation in the judicial system of the Republic of Serbia, and therefore chapters 23 and 24 are still not closed and are still expected from the European Union in some way to support all that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is doing, but unfortunately the courts and prosecutors are coughing for what the Government of the Republic of Serbia has done. Starting with a comment on the judiciary, I must point out a few important facts for which, respected ministers, you know for sure that in the Republic of Serbia, the judicial system through investment in courts and prosecutors' facilities has received a lot. If we go from the indisputable fact that in Belgrade one such shift was made a few years ago when the building "Aeroengineering" was built, in which the first basic court was placed, then the adaptation and reconstruction of the Palace of Justice building, which now brings back complete criminal matter from the courts, especially from the Great Court in Katanic, not to talk about cities and municipalities in the interior where it is indeed through the Ministry of Justice and you personally, respected ministers, done much in the adaptation and reconstruction of the objects of courts and prosecutors. In the territory of the Zlatibor district, it is Prepolje and Požega. I must commend what has been done in Uzica, therefore, the city from which I come, which is the construction of a brand-new, very modern building where the Industrial and Criminal Court are now located. The building has been done according to all European Union standards required for optimal judicial work, specifically by courts, with all those segments that come from digitisation, equipment, and in particular equipment in courts where it is necessary to place a number of participants, such as in bankruptcy areas, when it comes to investigative claims where trustees have the right, sometimes the obligation to declare applications and also the assessment of claims by bankruptcy managers. So, it's really done a lot, with me having one appeal for you, the honourable minister, who comes from a single layer of judicial employees, and that layer that somehow undetectablely appears only in such discussions, because we simply don't pay attention to exactly what the justice system depends on, and these are civil servants and tenants. In view of the fact that the Court of Justice of the Republic of Serbia has also imposed one subject, which in any case merits attention and needs to be affirmed, it is about rewards for the work of officers in the judiciary, bearing in mind the fact that the level of their earnings is still at the level of one that implies meeting the need for minimum earnings or little more than a minimum profit. I believe that, given that we, as MEPs and our MPs, have not highlighted amendments in this direction, that we should consider in some further course of the implementation of this budget, which is very well structured and planned, that this part of the employees in the judiciary is in some way stimulated, which means their far more favourable position compared to the present. In Article 11. The draft budget law suggested that the level of the reward for this class of employees could be up to 1% of the minimum earnings in the Republic of Serbia, which is very little. Those who are in the union and who protect the rights of employees in the area of justice have asked that the percentage be significantly higher, and 15%, which I do not think is very realistic, but in any case that it should be bigger, it would be an appeal for us Socialists to treat you, together or in synergy with the minister of justice, to resolve this issue in a better way when it comes to deputies in the justice system of the Republic of Serbia. When we talk about local self-government, respected ministers, we need to point out one fact that no one will question, which is that this budget is also oriented exactly as it is routed and that it is justified not only by the previous budget, but also by a global policy of the Government of Serbia, which means that the transfer funds towards local self-government are significantly reduced, so that local self-government, so municipalities and cities, are stimulated in the direction, let's say, creativity that implies the completion of local budgets from funds, i.e. revenues that are achieved exclusively at the level of local self-government, and these are municipalities and cities. To be honest, I am not sure how many municipalities and cities have responded to such a way of orientation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, because a large number of projects have been set up by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and that is exclusively in favour of local self-government, where local self-government has not been adequately participated. This criticism of local self-government is more well-intentioned and stimulating, in the light of the motivation to focus as much as possible on the level of local self-government as representatives of local authorities towards projects that the government undisputedly allows. When I talk about the city I come from, I have to point out that there are positive examples where the town of Užice as a local self-government also has a significant participation in participation, in project financing, and so is the city municipality of Sevojno, as the city municipality of Užica with the means provided through the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government of an adapted building in which the institution of home culture of the same means is now located, as well as the funds provided by the Ministry of Culture, the museum was renovated. I hope, dear ministers, that you have in some way respected the appeal of the citizens of the city of Užica when it comes to funding a boiler room with energy that will significantly reduce the pollution of a city that is at a high level of pollution and the great danger of the city's population, when it comes to pollution, which is building a boiler room for the needs of home health. What makes the citizens of Užica, which is not a small number, have great gratitude for the government of the Republic of Serbia's water construction, following a water disaster in the town of Uzic, which was about seven, eight years ago. Finally, I have to draw attention to something that, the particular ministry I was talking about, which is the Ministry of Environmental Protection, then the Ministry of Energy and eventually the Ministry of State Administration and the local self-government provided, which is that we have the opportunity to service the needs of citizens in the territory of the entire Republic of Serbia through e-government and digitalisation in the best possible way. I think that this is a very good solution and that in this direction it is necessary to persist, so that exactly these needs of citizens to reduce various harassment and wait in front of counters are eliminated, and local self-governments allow the administration to be reduced to the lowest possible level. Of course there is much, much more to be pointed out, but what I have pointed out is enough to say that this segment of the budget is both well and structured and planned. You have the support of the SPS and our parliamentary groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-20-0.u63977	I thank my colleague Jovanovic. The word has been made by the People's MP Milena Turk.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-20-0.u63978	Thank you, Mr President, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us the draft budget law, as the most important proposal we are discussing. At the very beginning, I would like to point out that it was created on the basis of the incomes and savings we have achieved, that it was based on real projections and that it was developmental, and that the Fiscal Council itself gave the assessment that it was extremely well planned. At this point, we can proudly say that our country's budget is stable, that it is healthy, that on the basis of reforms, based on the responsible policy that we have implemented, based on the unpopular measures we had in previous years, we have managed to make the budget now in a stable, sustainable state and that we have created a safer future for our children. Also, public debt is under control. We've changed the perspective, we're talking about moving forward, we're talking about development, new investments and a more modern Serbia. The priority and strategic goal of the government of the Republic of Serbia is to make citizens feel better as soon as possible. This just seems to be through intensive investment in the development and start-up of the economy, in job creation, in new jobs, in reducing unemployment, and therefore working so intensively to attract new investments. During 2019, we attracted 2 billion 320m euros in foreign investment, which is 43% more than in 2018. Serbia is ahead of the number of foreign direct investments, and we are extremely proud of that. This wasn't even an easy task. It was necessary to change the image of Serbia. Serbia today enjoys the world's reputation, Serbia is a country that is a factor in peace and stability, a country that was ready to take heavy moves, cuts to cut with that negative trend and to manage to develop, invest intensively in its infrastructure, invest intensively in its industrial zones and create conditions and send a message that a destination is suitable for investment. This is how we attract a large number of foreign investments and new factories and jobs are being opened throughout Serbia. Since 2012, 700,000 new jobs have been opened in Serbia. Although this is an extremely good result, we will not stop here, we will not stop, we will continue this work and our results in the previous period are guaranteed that in the years to come we will continue with this intensity to fight to reduce unemployment. Of course, from those who are boycotting, from the hall they say, you will hear that they are cable installers, they are repulsed about the factories that are being opened, and that comes from the impotence, because actually while they were able to enjoy the citizens' trust they were not able to equip the industrial zone, or attract investment, so they are criticizing us because we have succeeded and we have been able to do what they were unable to do. So, they're insolently expressing themselves, insultingly about their citizens, who actually work in these factories, who live honestly and support their families from their work. I would like to remind you that when we adopted the 2018 budget, we reduced the economy by reducing the burden on earnings from 63 to 62% and you will again hear from the lobby that it is only one percent reduction. However, if you calculate it is 1.3 billion dinars, so it is not a little burden when it comes to the budget. This is how we manage to disburse the economy, to encourage employers for new employment or to invest in new modern technologies or to increase wages, as far as employers themselves are concerned. The fact is that the Republic of Serbia's budget at this point is stable to withstand this burden and the fact that in years behind us there was no initiative to approach this measure, there was no political will, no courage, no funding to do this. This measure is one incentive for employment so employers can employ new people, be stimulated and motivated. Recently, the National Assembly adopted a budget rebalance, so a positive budget rebalance to make our citizens feel the savings and income effects we have achieved and this money mainly refers to an increase in wages and pensions as well as capital investments. When it comes to capital investments, intensively invests in infrastructure and the continuation of such a trend will certainly continue in 2020. At this moment, we can proudly say that in Serbia we have built 320km of new highways, that Corridor 10 and large and significant sections of Corridor 11, I am talking about contracts for the Moravia Corridor, which connects central Serbia and will be an engine, a driver of development in central Serbia, and will connect municipalities on this route and Corridor 10 and 11. With the equipment of industrial zones in which the Ministry of Economy, its finances, helps us to create conditions for attracting greenfield and brownfield investments, we can today say that we have created conditions for investors to come, to open factories and to hire our people and start the economy. I underline once again that thanks to good results we have implemented a fiscal space that will be used to increase these capital investments, to reduce tax burdens, but also to increase wages in public enterprises and of course pensions. These measures are designed not to violate the stability of public finances, not to disrupt the dynamics of public debt cuts, but also to raise the standard of living, to stimulate private consumption, to accelerate economic growth. As of 1 January 2020, pensions and pensions will be harmonised according to the Swiss formula, which means they will be harmonised, will depend on the rate of inflation, on the rate of salary growth, which is a healthy formula, and sustainable which will be guaranteed and pension payments and their height. So at this point, we're not talking about whether pensions are going to be, but we're talking about pension levels and further growth. What's important is, we've secured continuity, we're doing this from real sources, from the savings we've made, not from loans that are unfavourable, which have high interest rates, which sometimes come on the charge, as our predecessors did. We're doing this without borrowing, and we've also provided our pensioners with these incomes and savings for 5,000 dinars, one time, which is also very important to those pensioners with the lowest incomes. The application of the Swiss formula, so that they can expect an increase of 5.4% in 2020 anyway. So we consolidated finance, the subject is no longer a deficit, but growth and development. Salaries have also increased from 8% to 15%, mostly in healthcare, nurses and doctors. I would like to remind you that this budget proposal has also brought with it an increase in health care by 73%, a pardon 13.3%, and the most resources are planned to build up health care facilities to provide our citizens and patients with the best and quality conditions for treatment. Therefore, the purchase of medical equipment, the expansion of space, investments and investment maintenance of existing facilities. Minister Loncar also announced consent when it comes to the reception of missing workers, and when it comes to doctors and nurses, but it will certainly be in other resolutions of this kind, because we want to employ our people. Now I'd like to come back for a moment only on the subject of health care. At this point, we also have specialists arriving to replace the missing personnel in those areas, because the fact is, when Minister Tomica Milosavljevic was there was no plan and programme to provide time for doctors in areas where they were missing. A 9% increase in the budget fund for the treatment of diseases, conditions and injuries that cannot be successfully treated in Serbia has occurred, which we very much support. It also invests intensively in a single health system to collect data from all information systems in health institutions. What I particularly want to point out is the National Investment Plan, which is one of the strategies of the Republic of Serbia that will treat all those segments that are of paramount importance to each of the inhabitants of the Republic of Serbia, starts with the construction of a water and sewerage network. We don't want, as our predecessors did, to build parks without our people having healthy drinking water. On the contrary, we want healthy drinking water to reach every resident. For that purpose, 2.5 billion are defined. We want to invest in infrastructure, to continue road construction, to rehabilitate. For this purpose, 4 billion are foreseen, and only 900 million to rehabilitate 5,000 existing kilometers of roads. Our results so far are guaranteed that in the next period we will also act responsibly, carefully, by working on priorities, by continuing to build roads, by regulating industrial zones, by keeping an eye on and taking responsibility for the budget. In this sense, the budget is indeed a developmental one, facing major investments and improving our country. Significant attention is also given to the most intelligent policy. So, a special accent on supporting parents when they need it most. Given this development component of the 2020 draft budget, I will support your proposal in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-20-0.u63979	Thank you, colleague Turk. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this would also end today's working day. We continue work tomorrow, on Thursday, November 21st, 2019, starting at 10:00 p.m. Thank you.
