ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64396	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Sixth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sitting is attended by 87 MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please insert your identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 87 MPs are present in the hall. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word has the People's Messenger Muamer Bacevac.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64397	The esteemed chairman, fellow MPs and MPs, on 4 March 2019 in Zemun, crossing the street at the pedestrian crossing, was cut down by student Novomarketer Edin Bakan, practically blown up at a walking crossing, so that after two days he would tragically die in KBC in Zemun, and this is a terrible picture that I was talking about and a recording that visited the web portals and that scared all the parents in Serbia, who have children who are educated in some major centre in our republic. Since the beginning of the case, there has been a lack of clarity and indifference in conducting pre-examination activities, so on March 27th, I asked the Ministry of Justice for information and specifically appealed to Minister Nela Kuburovic that with special care and piety he refers to this case, given that he is very sensitive. On May 20th, I received a reply from the minister that the Third Basic Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade is acting on the report by the IDP against the defendant and taking action under the law. But, gentlemen, for 237 days, pre-examinations have been under way for 237 days, and we haven't had a trial in 237 days, and we don't have a trial for this case that ignored our country and the public. An unusually long period for investigative actions, so I ask Justice Minister Nela Kuburovic again – why is the case not being initiated and why does the trial not begin before the competent court? For too long, the duration of the investigative actions raises serious doubts about the family of the victims and the large number of citizens who are interested in the case. If investigative actions are to last for almost a year, the question is how long and how long and how long the trial should take. I said then, and now I want to repeat that unhappy parents can't make up for their inconsolable loss, but only justice and truth will be healing for them. I also want to mention another event in Novi Pazar that has also upset the public. Namely, in one of the cafes during a children's birthday celebration, a police raid came and one of the parents tried to protect the children, there was a verbal debate between the police and him, and at one point he was struck by a police officer with his fist in his face, and one such video is circulating through the networks, and it clearly shows that a police officer is completely unnecessaryly overstepping his powers and needlessly hitting a man who is looking for an explanation. You may recall that there were a group of enthusiasts and a group of people who were dissatisfied with this procedure protested in front of the Police Administration in Novi Pazar, there were one hundred people, mostly citizens, teachers, very fine world, representatives of NGOs and fortunately, responded to their protest by the Director of Police Mr. Rebic, who listened and really properly to the case, stressing that no one, nor the police, or any citizen, should needlessly carry out the force and therefore we must not be intolerant. Of course, it was then announced that the process started, a procedure that would determine whether there was an overstep during this intervention when Mr. Edin Hadzovic was injured. I forgot to say, it's very important that he requested medical attention while in custody and that his nose was broken at the hospital center in Novi Pazar. I stress that in communication with citizens, police officers should really respect their integrity and humanity, that is, the principles of humanity and non-discrimination. (President: I thank you. In the end, just to ask a question, I'm sorry. I request the competent ministry to provide me with information as to whether the procedure has been completed and whether it has been found that there has been an excess of authority by the official, in order to avoid any suspicion and strengthen confidence in our country's police officers.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64398	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64399	I would ask a few questions, my first question would be the Government of the Republic of Serbia, specifically, regarding how the Government of the Republic of Serbia will find the opportunity to protect our dedicated industry, related, specifically to the attacks by Dragan Dilas, Marinka Tepic and Bulgarian journalists. We are witnessing that more than 20 days ago, a series of negative things are happening, attacks that can affect our dedicated industry. One issue of the same to the government and the competent ministry, since the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy is in charge, in particular, we have witnessed that in the previous period under the 2019 budget and the law that we have passed that the funds have been provided to help our families, to help our women. In particular, my question would be, since now and in the announcement of the adoption and the new law that we will supplement this law where it is announced that there will be 300,000 dinars, or more, for the firstborn child, the second-born child, the third-born child, and every month next, there will be the same monthly compensation for these families, that is, for those children. My question would be, and I will suggest, within the framework of the bill, that families, or people living in our villages, people living in mountainous and mountainous areas, in cities, municipalities that are the most demographically endangered, bridesmaids, undeveloped, for example. such as the Municipality of Svrlig, Bela Palanka, Gajin Han and a large number of such municipalities that are in southeastern Serbia, which are in the process of extinction, because a really big problem is this demographic, and I would now urge that these municipalities be provided with a greater compensation for these women, for those children who are born at least 50% higher compensation for these municipalities, i.e. for such areas and for those women and for those children compared to other areas where there are no problems with birth. One more thing, for rural areas in such municipalities that are underdeveloped, I would also suggest that not 50% increase but 70%, because it is one way, a stimulating way for people who want to live there, who want to create a family, to want to have children, to help these people through these kinds of laws provide conditions, specifically financial conditions, that they can live there, that they can develop. On the other hand, it's a big need, because we're witnesses, it's not the same life with me in Srlig and the same life here in Vrakar, or the same life with me in Srlig and the White Palanca or somewhere else here in central Serbia and in northern Serbia and in Belgrade. So, there is a great need, and I would call on the government and the competent ministry to give the bill the opportunity to have greater allocations for those municipalities that are the most underdeveloped, which are demographically endangered, in which the birth rate is very low and in particular 50% more resources for their needs, or for their assistance, and this is also true for one-time assistance and for monthly assistance. Fifty percent for such municipalities and villages in such municipalities to be 70%. I think this is a big deal and it needs to be done. That's why without these investments in these people and helping people like that, I'm sure we'll have a less chance of stopping such communities, such municipalities, because we're witnesses without people in such municipalities, we're certainly all border areas, we have to give these people more support. This is one of my proposals, and I am sure that the government and the competent ministry will have an understanding because only by investing more in such areas do we have a chance to ensure the survival of such municipalities. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64400	Thank you, Mr. Miletic. The word has Stefan Miladinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64401	Thank you, colleague Marinkovic. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I will address, in fact, my question today, during the 16 days of the activists that began yesterday, I will dedicate my question to the position of women, i.e. the state of human rights in the Republic of Serbia and to what my distinguished colleague Milletic was talking about. In fact, 16 days of activation brings together several international dates. As I said in the beginning of November 25th International Day against Violence Against Women, and continues on December 1st when we mark World AIDS Day, December 3rd, International Day of Persons with Disabilities and we conclude it on December 10th, International Human Rights Day. This campaign has been marked back in Serbia for years and has contributed to raising awareness of gender-based violence and the general state of human rights in countries, of course both at national and international level. I will remind the fact that the Republic of Serbia is a signator of the UN Convention on the Elimination of all forms of discrimination against women and that it is very active in implementing this document as well as in implementing the recommendations and conclusions of the SIDOU Commission. I will also remind you that at the beginning of this year in Geneva we defended the fourth periodic report before the Sidou Commission and that some recommendations have been submitted afterwards. In addition to a number of positive observations, the Committee has made some recommendations for further improving the legislative framework on the protection of human rights. Some of the recommendations are that direct and indirect discrimination, sexual harassment, or fostering discrimination should be defined. In previous years, Serbia adopted a set of laws and safeguards to ensure a more effective response to various forms of gender-based violence, including women from sensitive groups. The shift in that sense cannot be disputed. We have ratified the Istanbul Convention, among the first, the Serbian Parliament is among the first in Europe to ratify the Istanbul Convention, we have several times implemented amendments and additions to the Criminal Code, we have adopted Lex Specialis, a special law on preventing domestic violence, the Law on Free Legal Assistance, as well as numerous national strategies. But did we manage, as a society, to suppress imposed patterns of behavior, social patterns and stereotypes that are overly supportive of various forms of violence? There are still discriminatory birth stereotypes that interfere with the promotion of women's rights in all areas of social life. It is clear that we must continue to work on systematic solutions to protect women from all forms of discrimination, of course, and violence, and from family violence, gender discrimination, motherhood, education, marital status, singleness, religious or nationality, sexual orientation and others. Today we women face numerous roles, roles in the best way to respond. And is it easy for us? It's not. We are both daughters and mothers and wives and partners and workers and neighbours, we are a creative part of society, a part that equally participates in all processes and every blow against us is unacceptable. It's an unacceptable blow to us, to our lives, whatever role we're in. Do we need backup? Yes, it is. If you can’t help us, don’t hold us back. Violence against women and discrimination against sensitive groups is a global problem, and the response of the state and society depends on the social and cultural context in which we live. We must build a society based on tolerance, equality and respect for the human rights of all our citizens and citizens and this job can never be finished. In order to provide more effective protection against discrimination and violence, our fight must also be united in all directions, starting with education and education, through media support in breaking down stereotypes, unequivocally responding to competent institutions, more effective judiciary, to individual reactions, or each of us. Today, in line with the Rules of Procedure, I will ask the Prime Minister, Mrs. Ani Brnabic, about the proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Prohibiting Discrimination. Since the draft law has passed a public debate, when will the government consider these changes and additions at its session and when will the amendment and addition be before the Assembly? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64402	Thank you very much. The word is Gjorge Vukadinovic. Here you go, Mr. Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64403	Thank you. I have a question for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of the Interior, and it concerns the decision of the Serbian Government to assign, i.e. in the Citizens' Book, to enroll an American citizen, businessman and billionaire Ronald Rain Barkl, a man who has a lot of money, but not clearly which motive, not quite clear, which motive to become a citizen of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, in principle, I have no objection to that, but we have a lot of, as I would say, bad experience in recent years with these citizens, that is to say, those persons we have enrolled and assigned to the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia. I don't believe that only love for Novak Djokovic and I don't know the burger and the kaymaka have led him to such a spell. Mr. Bartle is someone with obvious problems, potential problems and with the U.S. Attorney's office. I am not sure that this kind of acquisition, in terms of another citizen, or citizen of the Republic of Serbia, will bring us something good. I say, especially since he's involved, his name, in some murky affairs that are shaking at this point the American public and the U.S. judiciary. He hasn't been blamed yet, he hasn't been charged. It is that he boasted, not only of him, with the same friendship with former American President Clinton, but also of the current American president. There are enough reasons for, at least doubtful, or at least wondering our concern over this newly-roasted citizen of the Republic of Serbia, especially when we remember some names that have become citizens in previous years, such as former Romanian Prime Minister Ponta, who has strayed from the Romanian judiciary, by placing a Serbian citizen, or even more audible, I would say even more scandalous case, that is Palestinian Muhammad Dalan, who is involved in everything and everything from arms trafficking to, even some doubts about the liquidation of Jaser Arafat. In any case, Turkey has issued a warrant and a reward for information about it, which Mr Dalan Muhammad was walking around, not only in this area of Serbia-Montenegro, but also in Dedinj and took pictures with the first people, leaders, and the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Montenegro. In this regard, he should be very careful when assigning such solutions. I'm drawing attention, and I'm asking for a notice and an answer to what this particular case is about with Mr. Bartle. My second question goes to the address of the MUP, the prime minister of the Republic of Serbia and the president of the Republic of Serbia, and concerns Ragmi Mustafa's statement yesterday, literally said, the head of an Albanian democratic party in Presevo, who has announced that he will request that the issue of a statement be retaliated by Albanians in areas, i.e. in the municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja, and that he will seek to realise the results of a March 1992 referendum on unification with Kosovo. Mr Mustafa said he demanded that the rights of Kosovo Serbs required by Serbia, watch out for the rights required by the Republic of Serbia for the Serbs in KIM, with international guarantees should be given to Albanians in the area. So this is a dangerous thing. You could have been expected, by the way. Some of us have also warned of such things, that any flirting with the idea of demarcation, division, exchange of territories will lead to increased aspirations and demands in this direction. So, I'm interested in what will be taken specifically by the Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the President of the Republic of Serbia on the announcements and these requirements for the accession of municipalities, part of Serbia's southern territory with Kosovo. Or, perhaps, I won't even think that it might suit them, therefore, whether to condemn, what concretely to do or perhaps even such demands to someone in Belgrade, who would like to prepare the terrain and the public and the citizens of Serbia for this, I stress, a problematic idea about the exchange of territories for our, or parts of the territory of the Republic of Serbia in the municipalities of Presevo, Medvedja and Bujanovac, for part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. municipalities in northern Kosovo and Metohija. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64404	Thank you, colleague Vukadinovic. The word is Alexander Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64405	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to ask Mrs. Ani Brnabic and Mr. Alexander Vukic, Prime Minister and President of the Republic. So, for a month, perhaps more, we have in our public an unexplained affair about sales, so the "Second Industry Krusik" sold at privileged prices to private companies. So we still don't have one answer to any of these questions. How is it possible that a private company can buy it from Krusik at affordable prices, before someone who is under state control, such as SDPR, and what is the reason for that, and the reason for all of this? So we haven't received an answer for more than a month, this topic is present in public, and it is obvious that no one is seriously involved in this issue from the Government of the Republic of Serbia. So, before we can read all these allegations where the Serbian weapons ended, we need to know all about this case, that this is being investigated, and that should be the government's initiative to investigate it, regardless of exactly what private company it is, but the fact is that the privateer had a privileged status in relation to the state-owned enterprise. That's what's inadmissible about it. Mrs. Brnabic, as Prime Minister, should come out and deal specifically with the topic, say everything about it, not get the subject out of the public. On the other hand, there has been another topic that has been present for the past few days. So we saw in some newspapers and other media under the titles of coalitions against Serbia, and so on, the association and meetings of the future prime minister, so on. Kosovo Albin Kurti and Democratic Action Party President Sandzak Sulejman Ugljanin, therefore, titled "Coalition Against Serbia". So we were able to see again the repeated things about Serbia and the Serb people that we were already used to from Sulejman Ugljanin, that Serbia is fascist, that Serbs committed genocide against Bosniaks, 1,000 years ago, that Serbs are the greatest aggressors and executioners, and that they are guilty of everything that happens to us in the Balkans and Serbia-Rajska area, or Sandzak. Then we saw, therefore, a merger with that candidate for Prime Minister so-called. Kosovo. Now he calls me, what is the reaction of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to all this, as long as such statements by Sulejman Ugljanin are to be tolerated? Of course, according to this, if it is "a coalition against Serbia", what character the SNS coalitions and the Democratic Action Party have, therefore, in some municipalities in Serbia such as the Prijepolje municipality, the Priboj municipality and the Tutin municipality. We have seen that SNS coalition partners, Rasim Ljajic's party, a coalition partner of all governments, have been supporting Sulejman Ugljanin for 19 years and his list in the Bosniak National Council. If Suleiman Ugljanin is joining Serbia, then what is the name of the Sulejman Ugljanin association with SNS and its satellites? What is the answer to his statements, to his claims, and I will remind you that this is not the first time we have heard this since 2014, i.e. Since Sulejman Ugljanin is no longer the minister of the Progressive Government in Serbia. We think it is inadmissible and that clearly Serbia needs to be defined on these issues. Of course, according to the law to react, since it is an invitation to secede a certain part of Serbia, such as KIM or Sandzak or Raska area. This is a violation of the Constitution, an attack on the constitutional order, or criminal act of high treason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64406	Thank you, Mr. Seselj. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Djuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64407	Thank you, Chairman. The parliamentary group of the Modern Serbian Party first wants to offer its condolences to families who are suffering from the night's earthquake in Albania and wants to ask the foreign minister if he is in contact with Serbian citizens currently in Tirana? We also refer this issue to the president of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce because, according to media information, there is currently a delegation of over a hundred Serbian businessmen at the business fair in Tirana, so we are interested in whether they are well, whether they have everything they need, because we have information that they have moved to safer locations in Tirana and that the airport is currently closed there. Also the question of the Prime Minister -- is he in contact with Albanian officials and is aid offered, as well as good neighbouring people would expect in the opposite situation? The second question is referred to the president of the province government, Mr Igor Mirovic and the Minister of Culture and Information, Mr Vukosavljevic - when will the building of RTV, located at Miselouk near Novi Sad, be moved in on November 26th, what is the symbolic date when the signal was released from that location in 1975? Unfortunately, that date goes by, the building on the outside works out, but according to TV information, there is no money for the purchase of the technical equipment needed for the production and transmission of the programme. The media information is that the equipment will certainly not arrive until December of the month. Also, funding for the supply of these equipment is not provided in the province's budget, nor has the funding been budgeted by the Regional Secretariat for Culture. According to RTV director Mr. Sunday Koprivica, it takes about 12m euros to equip the building to be fully functional and operational and is currently not a known source of funding for this procurement. Given that the facilities in which the TV is currently owned by the Region, TV has practically become a tenant in the facilities from which the program is being broadcast, so we are interested in the information about what is the plan for the building to finally be completed and that technical equipment, so that at full capacity the TV signal would be restored from the location of Micheluk, after being interrupted in 1999 when it was hit by NATO aviation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64408	Thank you, Mr. Turkey. The word has Professor Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64409	Dear Vice President, I ask the question to the Serbian prosecutor's office -- does Marinika Tepic and others from the Alliance for Serbia, as well as TV N1 who daily place false news about the sale of weapons and how much does this affect our country's defence economic power? Reason: Representatives of certain political parties and alliances, such as the Alliance for Serbia Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic, Bosko Obradovic and N1 and Nova TV, are from time to time, day to day, lies and false news and fiction from the bottom of the river about President Vukic, about Nebojsa Stefanovic and the state of Serbia are poisoning citizens of the Republic of Serbia to the limit. These day-to-day lies are placed in fruit with certain foreign centres of power and are increasingly aggressive. They only have one goal -- the economic and defence destabilisation of the Republic of Serbia and its president, Aleksandr Vukic. Their lies and inventions have crossed into pathology and have crossed the line of mind and are most seriously threatened by our country's economic defence power. That is how they faked the contribution of Russian television "Rasa Tudej" in an attempt to accuse Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic of co-operating with jihadists. Their goal was to expand this brutal assembly, to convince the public that the Republic of Serbia is arming members of the ISIS terrorist organisation in Yemen. The footage of the hit headlines - Father and son arming jihadists, allegedly broadcast on the aforementioned Russian television, should have led the viewers astray that Serbian Minister Stefanovic and his father are connected to gun smuggling, as their photographs are literally mounted on the original contribution, as well as a fake title in Serbian, which supports this disgusting fiction. Respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, when the material that "Rasa Tudej" really broadcast was published, there was no word in it about Minister Stefanovic, his father, or the Republic of Serbia. Even the Russian Foreign Ministry announced that a video video released on social networks in Serbia, as part of "Rasa Tudej" television, of the alleged involvement of Minister Nebojja Stefanovic in arms trafficking, mounted and fake. I quote, "The report "Rasa Tudej" does not mention Serbian politicians at all," a quote concluded, stressed in a statement by the Russian foreign ministry. The statement said a false contribution was made by a photo of Stefanovic and his family being mounted on the original video "Rasa Tudej". The fake news came shortly after Russian Prime Minister Medvedev's visit to Belgrade and ahead of Prime Minister Brnabic's departure to Moscow. The leaders of the Alliance for Serbia wanted to damage the atmosphere of a dialogue based on trust between the Serbian and Russian leaders and between Moscow and Belgrade. They also wanted to deal with Stefanovic and his family and destabilise the internal political system of the Republic of Serbia. We tried to use the Bulgarian portal and the Bulgarian journalist to print another fake affair about Krusik, with the goal of harming the Serbian military industry and the Serbian state. The work includes Dragan Djilas, Marinika Tepic, N1 TV, the semi-world in the image of individual journalists and analysts, charlatans, who daily place fake fictions across N1, TV Nova, the "Todays", "Time", "Tabloid" and "The Sunday". To the director of TV N1, Mr. Cosic, it would be better for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to explain on behalf of what and why did Shiptar Ulaj supply 249,862 euros to his company? So is the Perjanica of the Alliance for Serbia, Bosko Obradovic, 19. 11. In 2019, full of hatred for President Vukic, I quote: "Vucic must have an emergency heart surgery in the United States to survive. That is why, now is the right time to intensify the attacks on him from all available weapons," the quote concluded. This is really like a tough fascist. That is why inscriptions, respected citizens, appear in many places in the Republic of Serbia, and I quote: "The more slander and lies, the more we prefer. “ A quote has been completed. It is for now the response of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to these lies to those of the Alliance for Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64410	Thank you, Professor Atlagic. Since none of the presidents, or the authority of the representatives of the parliamentary groups, responds for the word, we continue to work. We would like to inform you that it was prevented that the session was attended by the MP Snezana Paunovic. We continue the search in detail on the 1st item of the agenda – draft law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2020, with a proposal for a decision to give consent to the Financial Fund for Pension and Disability Insurance for 2020, a proposal for a decision to give consent to the Financial Plan of the Republic of Health Insurance Fund for 2020, a proposal for a decision to give consent to the National Employment Service's 2020 financial plan and a proposal for a decision to give consent to the Fund for Social Insurance of Military Insurance for 2020. We're continuing the search in detail. The People's MP, Natasha Sp, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mrs. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64411	Mr. Minister, first of all, it's because we stopped in the debate in particular to talk more seriously about some of the future projects you've announced. I have the impression that you are waiting, and you and your colleagues from the ruling majority, that this debate will pass, that the day of the vote comes, press the bells of this button, and you are not seriously talking about some of the things that concern the future of Serbian citizens. First, there's so much praise for the balance of this budget with this minimum deficit. As you heard at the beginning of our debate, it shouldn't have been, because so much savings can be made for these 20 billion in these spenders that you've put on sections and paragraphs, and I don't have time to go into details, that exactly everything can be done, to be equal on both sides and income. But what's wrong? It is not good that there are no key elements for Serbia and all citizens' better positions in 2020. When I say so, I mean many infrastructure projects that you have bypassed and that you are speaking both here and Prime Minister Ana Brnabic, which concern the citizens of Serbia. First of all, how can you expect only these planned highway projects to be given to Bechtel because of the agreement of Zorana with Scott and the 300m-euro corruption more and all of those other roads you intended to rebuild and build, last night, and Vukic talked about it in one show without looking to improve the infrastructure in the key areas where you promised? What happened to the sewer around the Vlassin Lake? Alexander Vukic was a guest there, visited the citizens, talked to the citizens of Surdulice, and since then nothing. There are no allocated funds, no project has been done, no expropriation has begun and it is not yet known whether you will give the promised, I think, four or five million euros for it next year? I note, that the citizens of Serbia know, those who have never been there, and they should leave, that it is one of the most beautiful parts, that it is a landscape of exceptional qualities, a protected area that only when you do it needs to get the most ecological and status, so perhaps in the future and some national park. Secondly, as for the "Fiat", Mr. Minister, you didn't want to admit it, you say yesterday -- well, what do we do, we're not gonna fire these people? Well, people are leaving alone. First of all, you should know that in Kragujevac, in the "Fiat Cars of Serbia" factory, people worked four months less than they should this year. There's no Minister Djordjevic, and we'll talk about it. It is allowed, therefore, to take 45 days a year for the worker to take a break due to a reduced production process. "Fiat cars" asked you for permission to increase it to 90 days. In this sense, workers receive only 65% of their earnings and their future is uncertain. Tell me, please, how planned was the production of the "500 L" model for 2019, and with which number will you end on 31 December of this year? You have to admit that there must be some other solutions here. Let it go - they promised a new model. How do we know? We don't even know what's in that 10-year contract, and what's going to happen, something on a long stick, where the SUV is going to be made in my hometown, or in that factory. The workers are leaving, everyone who has something better. The right to tell you, no one is going to look into the sky right now and think about whether something is going to fall from the sky, but wants to go to the factory to work full-time, and the Fiat can't work full-time because it's catastrophicly low production and it has affected the country's GDP in the first quarter of this year. I have more amendments, and so do my colleagues, by other members. I'll keep going, then. Serbia can do much better. We believe that this power, in addition to everything it promises, is not capable of making really big structural changes, not using the expression of reform. You have not touched at all the problems of "Electroprived Serbia" and production that is much lower than it should be. It also affected you in the first quarter of this year at a low rate of GDP, but we will discuss all these details later on in the second amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64412	Thank you, Mrs. Jovanovic. Now the word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64413	Thank you. The chairman, the honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the 330th day is how MPs of the opposition do not come to work, for which they receive their salary neatly. Among them are the vast majority who are constantly working in the National Assembly and thus show their attitude towards the National Assembly, show their attitude towards the budget we are discussing and show their attitude towards Serbian citizens. I am pleased, Mr. Chairman, that yesterday we received confirmation of everything that SNS MPs have been talking about in the past few days, which is that this decision is famous about plagiarism is purely political, and there's a lot of evidence of it, from the threats of its time that your students will block the Recitorate, that they will block the building, that they will protest and who knows what else, until yesterday's chain entry from the ministry building. Imagine now a group of lunatics coming in and putting a chain on the front door of the ministry building until last night's rally that was supposed to serve as additional pressure on the finance minister. Fortunately, that rally failed. I don't think there were 200 people. This is what it looks like. I don't know if the camera can zoom in. (Marian Risticevic: Did they report this meeting? Yes, thank you, Mr. Risticevic. By the way, the meeting wasn't even registered, but about 200 people gathered with everything Boška Obradovic. There's Bosko. Here's Bosko. Bosic's leading the rally. I don't know if it was Marinika. So, no matter how hard we try, Bosko Obradović and Marinika Tepic or Cobana, or we now hear there is another last name, we read in the media these days. Probably how she got married, so she added by what last name, but it's not the subject now. Mr. Minister, what's important to know is that they won't stop at this. Pressures will increase on both you and the Serbian government. Every day they will organize new shows, round tables, and who knows what else on their TVs – N1, Nova, in their media – "Today", "NIN", "Time", "Weeker" and who will know what other media are about to resign, as they say, and I ask the question of who to resign? Bosca Obradovic? Marinika Tesic to resign or to Coban or whatever her last name is? Dragan Gilasu? A wolf, Jeremiah? Do they need you to resign? Yes, but first, Gilas explains 619m euros. Here, let Gilas explain 619 million euros and, if necessary, we will all resign. Let Vuk Jeremic first explain why he was getting money from that Patrick Ho, an international criminal. So there's evidence in that sense that he was getting huge money from them, so let him explain that connection, let him explain on what basis he was getting money from them, so we'll all, if we have to, resign, but that's not going to be the tenth. They'll never explain why they got that kind of money and how they made that kind of money, so in that sense, Minister, I want to give you strong support and say that you should never resign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64414	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. The word is made by Minister Sinisha Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64415	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, I'd like to share some good news with you. Before coming to the Serbian Parliament, I had the pleasure to sign a partnership agreement together with the Chinese company Si-Er-Bi-Si on the establishment of a joint venture between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Chinese company on the construction of an industrial park in Borca. It's a park that's going to spread at 320 acres. We'll build it right next to the Michael Pupin Bridge. In addition to high-tech parks, factories, commercial content, this means exactly 15,000 new jobs for our country. Fifteen thousand new jobs, a total investment of 247m euros. We have already allocated 237 million dinars in the 2020 budget to complete the project. Let the project run for the next six to eight months, right after that we are going to build this big park. It will be the largest Chinese industrial park in Europe to employ, I said, 15 thousand employees. High technology, therefore, for our young people very important, commercial content, factories, everything that will further boost the growth of our economy, on the other hand, and affect further the reduction of unemployment, i.e. the increase of employment. That's the answer, dear Mr. Markovic, to what you just said. So we're absolutely continuing to do our jobs, we're continuing to fight for a nicer, better, successful Serbia, just by signing these agreements and adopting, hopefully, this 2020 budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64416	Thank you, Minister. Right to comment, or replica, Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64417	Thank you, Chairman. A brief comment, as you said. You just said that, Minister, that is to say, you've made a creamworth to get over and say the better results you and the Government of Serbia are, and the results are excellent and undeniable, in that sense, the more projects you've just talked about, the more jobs we'll be opening, the more investment we'll be making, the more we'll build bridges, schools, hospitals, and other sites, the more powerful the attacks will be on you and the rest of the ministers and the government of Serbia, and all to do damage to Alexander Vukic, as president of the SNS and the Republic of Serbia. That thing's completely clear. So they base their policies on what's worse for Serbia, it's better for them. That's what they think. Fortunately, in practice it turns out – the better Serbia, the worse it is. For the very end, Chairman, I would like to take advantage of the opportunity when I have already reported to mention a sad event that took place, and the media reported it a few minutes ago. Namely, Gavrilo Kovacevic, a member of the Council of Go Zemun and SNS Zemun municipal board secretary, was brutally beaten in Zemun when he was attacked in front of a building where he lived by baseball bats. Police immediately went to the scene and are still determining whether this attack is politically motivated. So, at this point, I don't want to claim that this attack is politically motivated, but what is irrefutable is that Kovacevic's shirt and sweater are completely bloody, and everyone who knows him is in complete shock and I have to point out that I know him personally, and I know what kind of man he is, because Kovacevic is known as a great worker and for the citizens of the Zemun municipality, and also in SNS is recognized as a man of enormous energy and talent in the business he performs. To him, absolutely no affair can be tied to him in that sense. So the SNS strongly condemns such a brutal attack, with hope, we really hope this attack is gone, is not politically motivated. It will determine whether it is politically motivated and we hope that there will never be any more bloody shirts and similar attacks in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64418	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. The word is News Tonchev. Here you go. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: Replica. Replica? Who? Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: Minister. Minister? Who did Markovic have? ) Yes, but the minister did not mention you in any word, he replied to Aleksandr Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64419	Mr. Minister, it's a good thing you brought that news to the National Assembly and now you're coming to the positions of the SRS programme. So, Chinese investments and their way of doing business in Serbia and over 10 billion euros so far are really good thinking for the future, but provided you give up the EU and stop telling us that subsidies for companies coming from Western countries are a rescue for Serbia, which is really not true and should not be long-term or short-term, no plan for Serbia in the future. You're a man of profession and, of course, as we Parliamentarians know, you know to detail what the Chinese government's strategy for so-called. "One Belt-One Time", the new Silk Road, call it whatever you want and what Serbia's role is in this context. What's our advantage with Chinese investors? Here is this technology park that you announced will employ so many people with so much investment, precisely that we are not in the EU, which we do not have yet to do, but as things stand, you are increasingly complying with these pressures and blackmails coming from the European Commission, we do not have to look as other countries that are in the EU, with which the Chinese are co-operating, of any kind of consent. Just look at those Chinese investments in a short time. So it's all very easy to see how much they've done for the Serbian economy so you can boast at this rate, which is not enough yet, of GDP growth. What if we hadn't alarmed the public in time and the Americans had come and taken back the "Zeljzar Smederevo" factory, but the Chinese investors, who had made five thousand employees of the production that Serbia once had with 15,000 employees, came along with? Think about it in that sense, not to be blackmailed by those from the West, because it's all in the Chinese way of planning in their management. It's a serious country... .
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64420	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64421	I'm done, Mr. Marinkovic. I believe you agree with this business model, too.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64422	Totally.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64423	Who plans everything on long run, 100 years ahead, and you from today to tomorrow, what will this or that commissioner tell us, some bureaucrats from the EU there. Avoid it, go through co-operation with our country's traditional friends, China, Russia, the BRIKS countries, the countries of the Eurasian Union, so that we really get better in the economy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64424	Thank you, Mrs. Jovanovic. The word, according to the amendment, has Mr. Tonchev. Here you go, Mr. Tonchchev.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64425	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers in the government of the Republic of Serbia, respected fellow MPs, I am reporting by amendment to Natasa Jovanovic, and I want to thank her on my behalf and on behalf of the citizens of the municipality of Surdulic and the entire Pcinjski and Jablanik region, which is mentioned by a major project in our region, which is a sewer ring on the Vlasin Lake. Since I come from the municipality of Surdulica, which belongs to Lake Vlassin, I want to explain a little bit about this project and to say, it is true that the President of the State, Alexander Vukic, visited the municipality of Surdulic and then promised that a sewer ring would be done on Lake Vlassin, and I can tell you now that everything I've talked to our president so far, that what he promised to accomplish. So I see that the first step of this project is also the beginning of this project that the government announced this project a month ago for public interest, so that we as a municipality can enter the expropriation and complete this project. In fact, we have a project done in 2002. However, we need to comply with new regulations and laws, which we will do, and we are promised that the Government of the Republic of Serbia will give money, and I can tell you that for the very construction of this project, the EU gives us four million euros, and the Serbian Government should separate that amount of money, and that in the interests of citizens, not only Surdulice, but the entire Pcinjski and Jablanik district, we do this project, which would protect this pearl of tourism, i.e. the largest lake and the largest water on the surface in our republic. So I expect that the work on this project will take place in the spring, and I can tell you that so far everything the Serbian Government has promised for our municipality has been fulfilled. After reporting on this amendment, I would also like to say to the Minister that during the next period, the Government of the Republic of Serbia pays a little more attention to the salaries of public administration employees, i.e. in municipal administrations. As we all know, there are the lowest wages, and that is where we really need to hire children, or experts and educated people, so that we can meet the requirements of our citizens. Also, Minister, you have to make a little more bills in the next period to increase transfers to local self-government, which have been at the same level for several years, and a lot of commitments have been transferred from the republican level to local levels. I can also tell you that every year local self-government gets money from the budget reserve, so we expect to get something to cover our expenses this year. In fact, you know that we also give children's kindergarten workers money and this salary increase now, and especially in poor municipalities, budgeting is weaker, i.e. the poor are citizens and about paying taxes and taxis and everything. So I would ask you, in addition to everything you've done so far for Serbia, and for our municipality, to do this, that workers in local self-government would have at least decent salaries, as other employees in public enterprises do. Thank you for listening to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64426	Thank you, Mr. Tonchev. The right to replica has Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64427	I understand Mr. Tonchev, the SPS is in a coalition at the republican level with the SNS, and it's normal for you to expect, and you're a minority partner, to get what you're looking for and not just you, but your colleagues, but that's not the essence of my replica, but to take advantage of your exposure, colleague Tonchev, to make a general remark to the Minister. Mr. Minister, so the government didn't do it, you did one fiscal strategy for 2020, so the revised version and we followed it all. That infrastructure strategy, literally from the municipality to the municipality, from one to the other administratively this administrative district. If that's not there, we don't know what we can really expect. To return to the Chinese again, to one of our parliamentary visits to them there. The country, which has so much power and so much power, draws all economic power from the infrastructure it has in the country and domestic production. I repeat again, domestic production, the company that was founded and which are originally Chinese, as should be our Serbian firms, which should have much more resources and much more help to the state. This isn't just one of the slow projects. It will be, so it will go, so we expect it, hopefully. That's all it takes right now and you know it right now. If you say something, you define the state, you have to do it. Is it normal in the 21st century when you enter the Prepolje that you have such a dump? That's amazing. There was almost this Memedovic show, so you could see those creepy videos, how much is going on along the river and later on the Drina River, etc. So this is all happening in front of our eyes. Now what's that citizen, local Prijepolje or some other town going to say or this one in Batocina, in Kragujevac, who's looking that you can't, you inherited this with the "Fiita" and you say – that's what someone else did? You haven't done the part that connects the highway with this so-called. through the front row from Batocina to Kragujevac. It's a machine stand. This one hasn't worn the heels, Zoran, since this morning, to go there. No mud since this morning, here, I've passed. But, you know, it's a disgrace and a shame that nothing is done for days and you're all so slow, tomorrow we will, today we will. That's really not how it works.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64428	Thank you, Mrs. Jovanovic. The word is made by Minister Sinisha Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64429	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, I have mentioned it several times and I will repeat it again and again. What is the biggest project ahead of us is not only the implementation of the 2020 budget, but also the implementation of the national investment programme, announced by President Vukic. In the next ten days, we will come up with this proposal, which will now identify, and this is important for you to hear, all the projects that we will be doing in the next five years on the territory of all Serbia, with a detailed plan for each local self-government and on road infrastructure and on sewers networks, water networks, waste water treatment plants and everything others have not done in decades, and we are going to do now. The prerequisite of that, of course, is stable finances, the prerequisite is that you have a surplus in the budget, that you have a controlled public debt, so that you have the money that you have the opportunity to place or invest in exactly what is most important to the citizens of Serbia, which is infrastructure and, in the end, additional to that, as you know, is the 500m-euro programme for our young people, for housing, to have a roof over their heads, for an intrinsic policy. It's all part of the national investment programme. So we're just thinking about what's missing in the next five years. And imagine, a little digression, imagine that these before us have finished both the sewers and the plumbing and everything else they're supposed to do, we'd be making maybe spaceships today or whatever. No, we have to do what they didn't do because they were thinking about their pockets and how to make 619m euros, like Gilas did. We'll finish every mile and every meter of sewage and waternets and wastewater treatment plants. We will invest in both youth and travel and rail infrastructure and all that is necessary to increase the quality of life in Serbia as soon as possible. It's a national investment programme. There's also the Vlassin Lake. There are all the other things that no one ever got to do, because either he didn't have a wish or he didn't have any money. We also have wishes, and now we have money, between 10 billion and 12 billion euros in the next five years, to invest only in improving infrastructure, supporting young people and intrinsic policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64430	Thank you. The word is Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64431	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, as someone who initiated and participated in the construction of an industrial zone in India, which was almost finished in 2007, using an existing infrastructure, a semi-road, very fast and highway to Novi Sad, two international railways, I want to congratulate the industrial zone in Borca and pass on the experience that, let's say, unemployment in India is currently below 5%. Interest in industrial zones, especially in this section that has highways and solid infrastructure, is far greater, but we also have to take care of pockets, the interior of Serbia, that through the development of industry, above all, processing, the population is evenly and evenly deployed. It is important how many Serbians there are, but it is even more important that those residents living in Serbia are evenly distributed, i.e. we do not have abandoned and abandoned territories. But I have to tell you something, you can't be against the EU and CEFTA markets, you can't be against "little Schengen" and expect Serbia to develop dynamically. Large Chinese investments are not only due to the Serbian market. They, above all, come because of the EU and CEFTA markets, hoping even that when we become full members of the EU or some community that will change it, they will join an even bigger market and that the Chinese will celebrate their profits. Profits that can be made on the market of the Republic of Serbia are far less than profits that can be made on CEFTA markets and on EU territory, thanks to the SAA, thanks to the CEFTA Trade Agreement and now to "little Schengen". That's why you shouldn't be against faster transporting people and goods if you want to attract as much investment as possible, because the investments are for me the gasoline poured into a car called the state. So, the state is one car that can't go without the engine, and that engine is an economy, and it can't go without gas and fuel unless there's no investment, and the investments come where they see the biggest chance of profit, and the biggest chance of profit is where the greatest chance of development is, and the greatest chance of development is where there's the biggest market, so where can trade with the largest number of people. Hence, once again, my gratitude for the contract in the Borca industrial zone, believing that the other parts of Serbia will develop evenly, such as Belgrade, Novi Sad, parts of Vojvodina, and now Borce. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64432	Thank you, Mr. Ristichevich. National MP Tomislav Ljubenovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go, colleague Ljubenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64433	Thank you, Chairman. Amendment to Article 2. The draft budget law of the Republic of Serbia for 2020 has been proposed to amend this article in paragraph 3. The SRS parliamentary group has analysed this bill in detail, given that the budget is a basic document of the government's economic policy. It shows a clear picture of the behaviour of the current government in the Republic of Serbia. The document that lies before us is also a political document, however much the representatives of the authorities try to deny it. These days, when the next 2020 budget is adopted, we have the opportunity to listen to the stories of government representatives about their alleged successes in the debate here, in the National Assembly, through the media and on how, thanks to these successes, citizens will be better off. We listen daily to praises for raising pensions and wages in the public sector. Typical of a pre-election campaign largely led by representatives of government, which is why I would like to remind the citizens that in a few months, it is time for regular elections in the Republic of Serbia. I think I need to remind myself of 2014 and the elections that were held at the time. On March 10, 2014, citizens were promised that pensions would not be touched, that no matter how many international institutions seek savings in the budget they would not be made to harm pensioners, but savings could be made through a reduction in the number of official travel or cars and other ways. So it's a matter of public speaking. The elections took place on 16 March 2014. Starting in November 2014, pensions have been reduced so now Serbian citizens should not believe all these praises of the authorities, because the elections will pass and the situation can be repeated. This power is no guarantee that the given word will be maintained. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64434	Thank you, Mr. Ljubenović. The word now has Professor Ljubisa Stojmirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64435	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, at first I want to say that I received a notice from our Ambassador Zaric in Tirana that there is no panic among our citizens and no injuries. That's one happy news after what happened in Tirana. On the other hand, we hear a few happy news here today, which is very positive. Construction of an industrial park in Borca is a very big venture, a venture that we should all look forward to, a venture that will allow Serbia to move towards its development path in many ways. A colleague who talked about Chinese investments said that the Chinese were great planning experts and that they planned ahead hundreds of years, etc., so I just want to remind her, was Natasha back in China, when I asked our Chinese friends how they managed to develop so quickly in the last 30 years, the enormous development of China. Their answer was the following: We kept all that was good with us, and from others We took what was good with them. That fellow Chinese told me right away, and if you weren't waiting to ask me what we took from you, I'll tell you, we took the principle of self-government planning from you. So what used to be good with us, they used it, they improved it, and here are the good effects for them and their economy today. We stopped a little bit in that field, and we're not like good managers, as good managers, using the planning system. Last year, as I recall, the Law on Systemic Planning in Serbia was passed, and it was required that by the end of the year, by the government, the competent ministries, a roof plan based on which all local self-governments could make their plans for the next period. Several times in conversation with our ministers, I was trying to find out if this roof plan was going to be there by the end of this year, and, as I learned, it will not be moved, but I hope that it will come up very quickly with a plan so that local self-government can make their own plans. What the finance minister said was that we would soon have projects for all local self-governments where they would be led by what was bothering them, I can say that it's very positive and I hope that it will be realised in the future, because at that session, when we chose a colleague of Sinisha Small as a minister, I asked him to take a little, one eye, at least look down on Black grass, because they were elemental disasters, the roads were destroyed, the bridges, and I got his promise. Although, I can say that this promise is not realized, but now I'm looking forward to these 12 billion that are provided for that purpose, so I hope that Black Grass will get at least one million and will manage to build at least those roads, build one hotel and allow both guests and people living there to come and spend at least the nice days in Black grass, because they have something to enjoy. Also, I am very happy with this news that a sewer ring will be done on Lake Vlassin, because it is something that should have been done long ago, but as our people say – better ever than ever. I hope that we will all have the understanding of the efforts we are trying to make through this budget in the interests of the citizens of Serbia and Serbia, and that we will manage to bring all of this together in the way we planned to achieve one final goal.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64436	Thank you, Professor. Stojmirovic. Now the word has Serbian Filipovic. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: Replica. Replica? There you go, but it's not in some negative context. Professor Stojmirovic never mentioned anyone, but here's a replica. You have two minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64437	He spoke to the professor. Stojmirovic just to give me a chance for a replica, so I understood. He may not have been finished, but it seemed that way. We visited one of the largest industrial parks in the world and China and we were in Sudjoo and there, both the president of Sudzhou County and the businessmen, presented their successes. They showed us wetlands, people who were poor, absolutely lived on the edge of misery, and then they really started to recover their economy by creating, to begin with, these small factories, manifests, national investment and subsidies for these small, later corporations, and so step by step came to this level of economic growth. What makes us different from them? We still don't have in the state, Professor Stojmirovic, and that's what the minister knows about the arrangement, as far as state administration and control are concerned, which must exist on every level. Still a high level of corruption, still a high level of unemployment for those who should rightly help the domestic economy. Well, neither will the minister himself go from one city to another or his assistants. This must be done by people in the sector who are strategically managing these projects and helping to recover the domestic Serbian economy. They do not just produce what the people of Serbia know. Their processing industry is also strong, which is why they are looking for raw materials around the world. They can't even produce enough. It is our chance to recover and end where you come from, the Black Treva and the south of Serbia and the western part of Serbia, to restore the stock fund, to raise the price of agricultural land.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64438	Thank you, Mrs. Jovanovic. The word has a folk MP, Serbia's Filipovic. Here you go, Mr. Filipovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64439	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, every day good news for the citizens of Serbia -- 15 thousand jobs certainly excellent news. I am convinced that citizens who monitor television broadcasts, especially those from Belgrade's territory, are overly satisfied with this news -- 15 thousand new jobs, and that means times the average of three household members is 45, 50,000 people will have a better and better future. What does not Dragan Gilas and the Alliance for Serbia talk about investment, about the budget, about money? Don't say it 'cause it's a convicted thief. Not only are the thieves, who stole a register of Belgrade and Serbia, but they have such raps behind them that family members are sentenced to years of prison sentences for drug trafficking and trafficking. So Dragan Gilas' brother-in-law was sentenced to six years in prison for trade, placing on the market, producing narcotics, after being arrested with 2.4 kilos of cocaine that he allegedly told him he had given him a friend, and he didn't know what he was carrying in his trunk, so when he was asked at trial and during the investigation -- who was this friend who allegedly planted it, he said he couldn't say which friend he was, because he allegedly had the honor, morals, cheeks, etc. What kind of cheek and morals does one who poisons our children, who sells drugs to our children? Since we know at that time what effect Dragan Gilas was in Serbia, I wonder – who is this friend whose name did not want his brother-in-law to mention? Is that a friend of yours not Dragan Gilas? That he might not actually be a drug dealer along with his brother-in-law? That he's not actually behind drug trafficking and selling drugs to our kids? So I also ask the authorities to investigate the case until the end, so that BIA, MUP and other competent institutions deal with this case a little bit more in detail, to see what the role of Marko Bastic in the whole story is, since we know his tendency to criminal activities, that he is part of one of the Montenegrin mafia clans. We see, in fact, that wherever you scratch the Alliance for Serbia and among its officials, from Dragan Djilas, Bastac, Obradovic and others, or you encounter domestic violence, violence against women, beating women, or facing threats of murder, rape, so we also encounter drug trafficking. So I ask that the competent institutions deal specifically with this topic so that we can fully present to the citizens of Serbia what this is about and who was the main producer, the dealer, the drug dealer in Serbia during the DS, or Dragan Gilas. I expect this case to be investigated in the interests of the citizens of Serbia and our children. Certainly, with record drug confiscation, the MUP puts fear in the bones of a team gathered around Bastac, Gilas and others. So I want to provide full support in this job and in the elimination of these bags of New Year's, which are especially afraid of Marko Bastac, I see that he is particularly nervous lately, he may change another party, since they often like to talk about flying over, flyovers, I don't know what I know, and those forty councilmen who supported him in the Old Town municipality, as he said, don't know any more of them, because they changed so much in just one term. So people who ruled Serbia for over a decade are drug dealers, criminals, thieves and bandits. That's what the citizens of Serbia recognized in time. We were able to stop Serbia's collapse, move forward. That's why investors are coming to Serbia today because Serbia is a much safer, safer country, which is why factories, industrial zones are being opened in Serbia today, so we have new jobs, so we have an increase in standards, pay increases and pensions. I am convinced that even in the coming years led by Alexander Vukić, we will achieve even better results and even greater growth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64440	Thank you, Mr. Filipovic. The word is Milija Miletic. Here you go, Mr. Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64441	I thank the chairman. Dear ministers, same as the amendment, because it is a real pleasure to see Chinese investors coming, which is also invested here in Belgrade where there will be 15,000 new jobs, it is a beautiful thing, but it is very important that in a period that comes through this budget and through the IPA programme, which will be presented for the next ten days, that one part of it will be maximumly used in the areas of southeastern Serbia, in areas where there is a major demographic problem, in which there are more deaths than children born. I suggest that in this context we have the possibility that through these legislative proposals, which will be later in the next period here in the Assembly, to make a difference for investments, for the funds that will be in areas such as Svrlig, Bela Palanka, Gajin Han, the municipalities of undeveloped Southeastern Serbia, municipalities that are demographically invested, municipalities that are mountainous and mountainous areas, to provide these areas with greater giving and for every newborn child, for every unemployed parent, to be at least 50%, I said this earlier when I had a parliamentary question. One more thing, it would be good to ensure in such areas the possibility of employment, that business entities that open their business entities there, open their companies to them to be able to be stimulated to do them, to free part of the tax they pay through VAT, or through certain taxes, to make it liberating for them, and let's say 50% to be liberating for them, to pay the workers because the salary in our municipalities is like Svrlig... (President: Time.) )......................................................................................................... and other municipalities very small and in order to balance living and employment conditions, we need to give more resources and more for these municipalities and these areas.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64442	Thank you, Mr. Miletic. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 2nd amendment. Mr. Perry, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64443	My colleagues warned me that after certain discussions, I wouldn't have anything to say, but I'll try. Mr. Minister, public finances are not foreign to you, but you've somehow blended in to this cliché and you say, never to us, never to anyone better, etc. You have no reason to. There are some colleagues who can only talk, but you have enough expertise and knowledge to be able to speak exclusively about the budget. As some have said, the budget is developmental, some that is pre-election, some have disputed that it is developmental, some that it is pre-electional, and I think that it is both, and on the first side of this table review here, it says that in the National Assembly it is from the funds planned for the National Assembly some of the funds will be spent on election activities in 2020. I guess that's normal. We expect regular elections and it's nothing at all controversial. It's nice news that you've shared here with us that in the next period, about 15,000 jobs will be opened in Borca, but we have Ritopek who's been from here, they say, exactly 20 kilometers that have been open for years, and there's been no water for decades. In 2014, it was before, but in 2014, someone promised it would be done, and then thousands of tanks went there. We have Nakovo, that's where they say they sell the house, that's what you saw, I think it was on RTS for four, four and a half, five thousand euros with an increase in salary. We need to examine what's in there, what led to this situation? Article 2 in this narrative section says how and how the deficit problems in the budget should be resolved and how and how all public debt that the state of Serbia needs to be paid off. And you have also made proposals here in the position of the 2nd member in which it can be done, and we personally think, if domestic agricultural producers were helped more, domestic businesses to solve this problem sooner and faster. In addition to the financial desire of every businessman, each individual to succeed, there are here when it comes to citizens of Serbia and the emotional reasons for success, while this can certainly not be claimed to be directly foreign investors. We know for sure that everyone will be up until the moment when they have financial interest, when it stops the question of how much further they will be willing to invest and stay, to fight with us on this market, and our businessmen will remain for the rest of the more reason there is. This calls for more serious activity to help domestic businessmen, domestic agricultural producers and otherwise Serbian entities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64444	Thank you, Mr. Perry. Now the word is Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go, by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64445	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, new investment and new projects and new jobs are always good news for Serbia, and here, I will use it to congratulate the entire government on the new project you presented to us today. That is why I would like to present here some projects that have been done in the co-operation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the City of Nis, projects that are very important for southern, or southeastern Serbia. So, thanks to support, above all, the republican budget and the Serbian government and thanks to good co-operation of the Serbian government with local self-government units. Nis is today a center, not only regional, administrative, but also an economic and cultural centre, which, of course, contributes to a favourable position in which our city is located and which provides opportunities for investment. The city of Nis was one of five cities in Serbia in 2018, which were selected as the first local development champions and thanks to joint projects with the Republic, we have progressed, above all, to improve the quality of life of citizens, to better provide services, to encourage entrepreneurship and to develop local economy. In 2018, we also took seventh place in the competition of small European cities in the future, and as a region we took third place in the competition of small European regions in the category of attracting direct and foreign investment. In Nis the past period has opened and six new factories have started working in which tens of millions of euros have been invested, truly fulfilling Alexander Vukic's promise to invest equally in the south as in all parts of Serbia. Conditions have been created for opening more than 10,000 jobs. The Serbian government has helped us to use resources, to create foundations for further development of the city. The biggest investment was certainly the construction of the most modern Clinical Centre with the most modern equipment, which Nis now makes a serious health center for that part of Serbia. Once again, the big project I would like to talk about is worth about seven billion dinars, or about 60m euros, that we start with with the help of the government and partners from Sweden, which is building a wastewater treatment plant, which, in addition to building a plant, includes the reconstruction of the collector network. In Nis, the 2020 budget will also be developed, bigger by around 1.2 billion dinars compared to New Year's, and will allow for the completion of the projects launched, infrastructure projects, scientific, cultural, improvement of co-operation with the economy, with the university, further development of advanced technologies, continues with the construction of apartments for military and police members, with the construction of social housing and with the hope of keeping young people in our city. Another project related to Nis, which I would like to mention, is the construction of a multi-purpose facility, so-called "Nish". The temple of art and culture. It is planned to be in the spirit of modern architecture, to absolutely fit into that part of the city where it will be opened and that part of the city is more modern and it should be the place of many future cultural events. Of course, with great pleasure, I always say that I will support the budget, because that means a better, more successful and more developed city from which I come. Finally, I would like to remind you that we are in the period of November of a month symbolically called "16 days of activism in the fight against violence against women" and I would like to invite all citizens and all competent institutions to contribute to this fight and to report violence above all. Connecting in these activities is important, not only in individual but also institutional terms, because our goal is to live in a society without violence and in a country where everyone will be equal. In that sense, I would like to commend the budgets of the local self-government units, more specifically the city of Nis. Nis has five city municipalities that do not have the status of units of local self-government, but all of them have foreseen in their budgets or will only foresee the funds allocated to gender equality, and all those leaders of municipalities that are creating their budgets at the moment call on them to do the same and thus contribute to the fight against violence against women. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64446	Thank you, Mrs. Žarić Kovacevic. The word is Zarko Bogatinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64447	I thank the chairman. The town of Leskovac boasts exceptional co-operation with the president of the Republic of Serbia and the government of the Republic of Serbia. In just a year, our President Aleksandar Vukic visited the town of Leskovac, Jablanski County four times, while ministers, permanent guests and support to the city of Leskovac and other municipalities of Jablanic County. I find the very important support we receive from the government of the Republic of Serbia. In addition to 196 million for the reconstruction of the Synthetics building, I would also point out a memorandum of co-operation signed with the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection. The government of the Republic of Serbia has singled out 497.5 million dinars for the second phase of work at the central wastewater treatment plant in Bogjevac. It's about what happened. A line of mud. The state also has 464 million dinars to finance the construction of a new collector on which the works have recently started, all with the goal of putting the central waste water treatment plant, whose construction cost 10.4m euros, into operation and later building a sewerage in 16 populated places that are gravitating at the central plant, with eightm euros from the Dutch government through Orion. That Leskovac enjoys great trust and has exceptional support from the government of the Republic of Serbia, shows a number of state-funded projects that are being implemented in our city, as well as in early 2018, when Leskovac began to transfer from the government of Serbia to the city budget of 450 million dinars. The large investments that await us, when it comes to low construction, are the reconstruction of Bulevar Nikola Pasic and the completion of the bypass around Leskovec. The city has set aside 90 million dinars for expropriation on the Boulevard. To complete the investment, the government will invest 165m dinars, a step towards building a bypass around Leskovec. Leskovac is a city that strives for prosperity and improvement, which is also a certificate of a favourable business environment, which was obtained by NAED and earned by 92.4 fulfils the criteria. It is recognised both by foreign and domestic investors who decide to start or expand their business on our city's territory. We are building a long-standing co-operation with Jura, which plans to soon open a third factory on the territory of our work that will be unique in Europe. Falke, Autostop, as well as Jinsi company, which has launched a new production plant in the former Synthetics building in which the government invested 196m dinars. There are currently over 900 workers who have moved from the non-conditional building Letexa to a new facility. These companies have shown that they are socially responsible and we are very grateful to them for that. The company "Jura" several times donated the apparatus for home health and Leskovačka hospital, and contributed to the opening of cabinets in our schools. The Greek company AutosTop adapted part of its business space last week and turned it into a modern kindergarten, which will be attended by 80 young employees in the company. The British company Aptiv Packard opened Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic in the green zone last year, which we have just launched after a long number of years and where we expect many more investors to arrive. The British investor hired 1,500, while the job is expected to find 3,000 of our fellow citizens here. The local company Statovac plans to expand its production in the green zone, which will further improve this part of our city. The plot is worth 42 million dinars, sold by the city, and the city has built a 33 million dinar traffic station. Another British investor has influenced the economic development and reduction of unemployment in our city. It is "Capitol Park" and which the British investor invested 10m euros to bring that part of our city to life, and the job has found 160 Leskovcan. From 2012 to today, the number of unemployed has been reduced by more than 7,000 in the town of Leskovac. All the above proves that the town of Leskovac has a favourable business environment, as well as excellent co-operation with businessmen, as well as excellent conditions for attracting new ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64448	Thank you, Mr. Bogatinovic. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Djuric. Here you go, Mr. Turkey.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64449	Thank you, Chairman. I would like to delegate the question of the lack of transparency of our budget and our budget process because transparency is in the preparation and development of budgets and in general in the management of finances, very important for the return of citizens' confidence in the political system, especially in those public officials who manage public money, that is citizens' money. The first thing I'd like to clarify is at the subsidy position. We have a subsidized position in air traffic. Yesterday we discussed the purpose of the subsidy policy. It is mentioned to be subsidized by the U.S. government, as it was done in its own time... (incomprehensible) banks and the complete financial sector of taxpayers' money 2008 because this type of subsidy was necessary to protect a much wider and larger public interest. So we're interested in whether this is actually a hidden item of subsidisation of "Er Serbia", because 650 million dinars are in the subsidy budget, which is explained about words, the project, so the one for which this money is intended, is explained by the words – we write strategies, we propose laws, we visit international air traffic institutions, we align our laws with international, etc. You know how, you also subsidize "Turkish Airlines", the new Istanbul airport is magnificent, but the toilets at that airport say that water is not for drinking. So that's the question of the correctness of public money spending priorities. Then, the next item that absolutely has no explanation, and I believe that there is an explanation and I don't want to assume that there is anything unusual about it, so I'd like to hear the explanation. Seven billion dinars are increasing the accompanying debt costs of the finance ministry, in a position to service public debt to foreign creditors. Whatever this is about, and I'm guessing it's nothing suspicious, I don't think it's a good idea that this item is simply not explained anywhere, in the interpretation of the law or in the materials. I have consulted the Parliamentary Budget Office, which I thank this way for its excellent work, which has been carried out in the preparation of documentation and budget analysis. Unfortunately, they couldn't find these seven billion either. Another very important thing, which doesn't get the right explanation from year to year, and these items are growing every year, which are penalties, penalty, penalty and damages that the state of Serbia pays according to court rulings. That item was increased by over four billion this year. I think it's exceeding 22 billion in the budget. I found information somewhere that he's practically eating an entire budget, whether he's enlightening or something. So there are huge items, there are no adequate explanations. I would ask the minister to give us a more detailed analysis of this data, let's see, I suppose this is about the following, investors suing the state because the state does not respect contractual obligations to investors, investors get a court dispute against the state and then the state pays the money of citizens because the state officials of the Republic of Serbia did not, as part of their public powers, mandates and jobs for which they were paid, honor contractual obligations to investors. Let's see who's to blame, then, that the taxpayers' money is spent to this extent on judgments paid by the state's irresponsible behaviour of state officials, because I say, over four and a half billion is an increase in this position, and the fiscal council also drew attention to the state's need to come out with a strategy to get these court damages on its tail and control them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64450	Thank you, Mr. Turkey. National MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go, Mrs. Nikolic Vukajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64451	Technically, the 2020 budget is balanced and it can be said that for the government of the Republic of Serbia this is a great success, but it is a great success only according to the IMF, because it ensures economic stability and strengthens the trust of some of the investors to come. However, in order to reach this budget, three things should be answered and clarified to the citizens. That is, how did this budget charge happen in these seven years and how did you actually get to this budget only in 2020? What have you not done in these seven years for the citizens of Serbia? The most painful question, why didn't you approach it and why didn't you do it? Why is your financial management still irregular? Why are you still pretending to be a hyperclass you've already found by 2012? Why do these same people of yours abuse this kind of money from the budget, smoke thympuss, build ten thousand squares in our tourist centers so nobody knows, nobody sees? Why are there already plantations that need only to wait for the legalisation of certain intoxicating plants, etc.? But let's start with how the budget's been filled. Of course, in 2015 you had to sign a contract with the IMF in February and that in that contract everything you can give, you gave everything from the back of the people, and what you gave from the back of the people is that you immediately increased the scope of the tax, you increased the tax type, you increased the tax rate. Anyone who is taxed, and everyone is taxed, regardless of whether they have a resolved infrastructure, whether it's a man living in the middle of Belgrade or a man from the top of a mountain, a remote village, etc. You didn't care who paid that tax, it was very important to you just to fill that budget of yours. What you did was the following, which wasn't good, is, in that contract with the IMF, you had to cut salaries, you made it harder to study, you made it difficult for health care, you cut pension pensions for pensioners, you made it harder to retire, you froze public sector salaries, you made it impossible for pensions to grow until pensions fell below 11% of GDP. What's scariest is that you've passed the scariest Labour Act to attract foreign investors who aren't foreign investors, but they're paid people who came forward... So, in advance, you've paid every employee they've hired for a certain period of time. Then, the Labour Law made it easier for you to fire workers. So that's where you unloaded the employer who came as that foreign investor. Then, the severance payment was cancelled completely, so you went past work only to count on the current employer so that people who had 10, 15, 20, 25 years of employment and moved to some other companies lost between five and ten thousand dinars in their personal income. So, what else was terrible about this Labour Act? You prescribed a minimum labour price, everyone who came and who was a cobage foreign investor, what were they doing? They stuck to those minimum labour prices all the time, nobody raised their salaries, so you kept the workers for a certain time for two years, you kept them in fear, you legalized one such system where the workers had to work at any cost, and you boasted about it, because then you say – it's good what you do, let's do one, so let's do the other, and why did they work? They only worked to fill your register, to pay bills with soap or force, and mostly instead of making institutions, you introduced public executioners and then you took away by force a little profit that people had in these foreign companies. Then what did you do? You've banned employment, and so you can go to the political market, so you can... Minister, I think I'm talking to you. Mr. Secretary Sinisha Mali, I think I'm talking to you and you should hear what Serbian radicals are talking about and I expect you to tell me what's wrong here. Maybe I'm wrong and maybe I'm sending the wrong message to the public. I ask you to be at least a little polite and honor the MPs of the people. Please, it doesn't make sense. Is it true you banned employment? Is it true that you extended that employment ban to 2020? Is it true that you exclusively hired members of your parties through a special government commission? So it's all true, you won't talk about it, and you won't listen at all. One more thing to tell you, this Labour Act that you have extended from six months of temporary work to two years, what have you done? Keep people in fear all the time so I can get fired at any moment. Then what did you do? Then you used those same people you're afraid of for political purposes, and then you took them out into the field, and then you asked them for safe votes through the capillaries, and that's how you made sure that you had always and at all times 50% in the elections. What you didn't do, what didn't you do? All that you took from the people, it would have been logical and our Serbian people would have brought it up and it would have gone away if you had, what if you had shown a good will to keep our youth in our country, if you had shown that you truly cared about the economic recovery of this country, that you had seriously approached the construction of a domestic enterprise, that you had demonstrated the true will to put into operation all natural and human resources in order to take advantage of our comparative advantages, to turn these comparative advantages into competitive advantages, to create a recognizable product from these competitive advantages, and to make them available to the market as such. You didn't do it all, it's all unforgivable to you. The third question is: Why didn't you do all this? Now, that's the blackest thing our citizens need to know, and I don't have time for that right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64452	The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64453	I thank you, Chairman. Given that my esteemed colleagues in previous discussions have pointed to something that I find worthy of great attention, I will relate to this subject with the following facts. It is a matter of justice, in particular, judicial proceedings, which relate to infringement of the party's right to trial within a reasonable period of time. To make it clear to the citizens, a reasonable time limit for the court's case in certain cases cannot possibly be two, three, five, even more years. What does that mean? This means that the party suffers a huge amount of time spent absolutely unnecessary to reach even a first degree verdict without talking about the appeal procedures that also last a year, two or more. When it comes to administrative courts, proceedings on complaints initiated by administrative disputes lasts for three years. What does that mean? This means that a party who undoubtedly has an old case, and all cases over three years old are old objects, has the right to claim compensation for violation of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time. This right cannot be restricted to the party, cannot be denied, and if the party submits the necessary evidence and points out the appropriate facts it is in the status of the court to give it the right to compensation for damages. The damages, for the sake of the citizens, are not small at all. It moves in amounts of two, three thousand euros each. Dear Ministers, if we have the fact that such cases are extremely much in court procedures, times two, three thousand euros, it is indeed a very high sum that burdens the Republic of Serbia's budget. Why am I saying this? Because it is high time that either systemically, therefore, by passing the law, order is imposed when it comes to a kind of absolute negligence in the handling of court disputes, negligence, because either disputes are delayed in an absolutely unnecessary, irrational and unacceptable manner, delaying hearings, waiting for a decision to be made within a few months, even a year, even more waiting for the decision to be delivered. What can the party do then? To say simply what he has right – make up for the damage that I have waited this long for in the process, regardless of what the court's decision will be, positive or negative. When I say – introducing order, I mean seriously the SPS parliamentary group rightly advocates budget protection, because these funds can be used far more rationally, in the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia or to go towards investments or to invest in social programmes, in projects, to invest in culture, to invest in sport, to invest where it is smart, and this is how huge funds are allocated from the budget, with the budget being quite burdened. What could be systemically resolved? One rule could simply be introduced – that responsibility must be borne by those who are guilty of acting against the party's right to be tried and tried within a reasonable period, which may only be those who are holders of judicial functions and who decide on the rights of the party. In this way, although I know that the state can be regressed from the judge, I think it would be better systematically if that responsibility existed directly and if the fault were determined in an absolutely reliable way, which is why there was a violation of the party's right to trial within a reasonable period of time. Of course, this is exclusively in the interest of budget protection, of course, this is in the interest of those needs of citizens who need to be met, who need to be regularly serviced, instead of paying unnecessary damages, not to mention the damages that the court in Strasbourg imposes, etc., what and how well you know what the situation is when it comes to the Republic of Serbia. I'm sure on these issues you'll have an understanding and that in places where you can appeal that these problems don't happen anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64454	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Borka Grubor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64455	Dear Chairman, respected ministers with co-operation, ladies and gentlemen MPs, first of all, I would like to thank our government and President Aleksandr Vukic for the contract signed seven days ago with the Azerbaijani company Azvirt, related to the construction of the Ruma-Shabac highway, a large modern bridge across the Sava, as well as fast traffic from Sapac to Loznica. It is a very important investment for our country, especially Loznica, Podrinje and all of western Serbia. The value of the contract is 476m euros. It's built 21.4 km of highway, a new bridge and a fast traffic station. The papers will be completed within three years. This contract means life for the whole of Podrinje, because it will bring new investments and new jobs and many more tourists, and keeping young people in their hearths because they will have their future, they will be able to stay and survive. The fast traffic station Shabac-Loznica is 54.58 km long, width of 19 meters and will be the most modern traffic in that part of Serbia and will mean a lot to Rajevina, Cerski and Gučevski end i.e. Even the floods. The main labour force of the company Azvir are workers of Serbia who have proved to be very valuable and responsible, and the company has been operating in our country since 2012, and has been building the Preljina-Ljig highway in quality and agreed time. All of this is possible thanks to the financial consolidation of the state that our president did while he was prime minister and continued the current government, headed by Mrs. Ana Brnabic. The reconstruction of the Shabac-Brasin railway line and the renovation of all stations on the move after 13 years of the break established a railway road transport to Šapac and Ruma, while also increased conditions for the transport of goods from Republika Srpska, whose renewed railway is the only way out into the world, as far as freight traffic is concerned. In a few years, Serbia will be able to boast that in ten years it has done highways and other roads more than in the previous 70 years. In the town of Loznica and the whole of Podrinj, not one new factory has been opened in the last 30 years, but the existing plants have been destroyed and destroyed. For the first time in our city's history, two big investors have arrived and a new future of Loznica is being built thanks to the great engagement of our president. A two-month gap lays the foundation stone for building two factories on April 2nd for "Mint" and 31st for "Adient", which builds a new future for Loznica. They are essential for economic development and survival of the Loznica, the Adriatic and the whole of Podrinj, because they will provide jobs for young people and thus keep them on their hearths. "Mint Automotive" is a large Chinese company that will invest 100m euros in a new factory and employ 1,000 workers. This company is one of the world leaders in the area of design, production and sales, both structural and decorative parts for cars. The company is also interested in building a hotel in Banja Koviljai. Adient is an American company for the production of changing clothes and car seats. The factory is under construction, and already employs 600 workers. After the factory is completed, a total of 1,500 workers should be paid. The local self-government of the town of Loznica has provided all the necessary infrastructure for both investors. When household business is done then funds are found at both republican and local level. That's how the government is responsible, that's what our president does, and that's what our mayor Vidoje Petrovic does. In addition to these two factories in Krupanj, a few years ago, a Turkish company of jeans employs about 160 workers. A similar company is also planned in Mali Zvornik, whose preparatory work for this factory is under way, and will employ 400 workers over the next two years. As for the planned investments for the town of Loznica, a very important project is a wastewater processing facility, funded by the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of European Integration and the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management. The final stage of preparations for the construction of a new football stadium is also under way. The project documentation is funded by the UNDP and the construction of the Public Investment Management Office of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. As a health care worker, I am very happy to see an increase in the 2020 budget by almost 74% in health infrastructure, which will help improve the conditions for the treatment of our citizens. There are three departments, internal, breast and psychiatric reconstructions under way at Loznica Hospital. Construction of new boiler rooms in the hospital and reconstruction of the surgical-gynological block of 9,200 m2. All of this, with already paid health pay increases for the first part of November and all other sectors, will certainly affect the quality of health services to all our patients, as well as the reduction of medical personnel drains. Indeed, the Loznicans have every reason to be grateful to both our government and our resolute ministries and local self-government, and most of all to our President, Mr. Alexander Vukic, whose merit is all this and initiated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64456	The word has the People's MP Vladimir Djuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64457	Thank you, Chairman. Thank you to counterpart Nedji Jovanovic for providing some of the information regarding this famous sentence of over 21 billion relating to fines and penalties for the solution of the courts that the state pays, for the damage to the injury, or damage done by the state authorities. So it's possible that part of this money is going to be paid to the persons who have been injured by the right to trial within a reasonable period of time, but only a small part. If we assume that fellow Jovanovic said that he had 15,000 people on average who were paid 3,000 euros in damages because the state of Serbia damaged their unscheduled judiciary's right to trial within a reasonable period, we are reaching a figure of about 5.3 billion dinars, so let it be six. The question is, where does the remaining 16 billion go, because on the economic classification 483 we have fines and a penalty for the solution of courts 14.4 billion. It's a one-billion-dollar increase from last year's budget. In the position of 485 damages or damages caused by state authorities, seven billion, three and a half billion more than last year. That's why it's important that the budget is transparent to see exactly what the money was going to, on which court cases, according to which payment orders. When we talk about the transparency of the budget, Northern Macedonia yesterday presented its portal to monitor public finances where more than 12.5 million transactions are available to citizens online. Virtually every payment order per invoice in that set of 12.5 million transactions can be seen. Just before I tried the computer, let's say, their Health Insurance Fund, transactions were listed between January 1st and 24th. November 2019. We don't have, and we don't even have MPs, and especially citizens, we don't have that kind of analytical insight into spending money. So I'm asking the question again and I'm asking to clarify the 22 billion dinars of court sentences and penalty and damages done by the state authorities if we assume that about six billion are leaving for the trial's injury within a reasonable period of time, the remaining 16 billion will leave? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64458	Thank you. The word has been made by Parliamentarian Olivera Ognjanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64459	Thank you, Chairman. I agree with the argument given by the Government when it rejected this amendment, and I would like to say something about the objective of implementing the public policies referred to in Article 2. Speaking of public policies, we know that they represent the right of government to act in order to achieve the economic and social objectives that the Government believes are in the best interests of society. The plan and the next year's programme is based on the income and savings we have achieved this year and on this we can say that after a long time we have a stable budget that we have achieved after difficult reforms in recent years. An analysis of the 2020 draft budget shows that the Government of the Republic of Serbia continues to move towards the development, expansion and growth of the economy and living standards of citizens, all in order to provide our children with a better future. Thanks to public finance reforms, Serbia's face has changed, its reputation in the world has changed, credit rating, a place on the World Bank's Dujing Business List. At first, I said that public policies are in fact the direction of government to achieve economic and social goals, and the Serbian government's strategic goal is to increase living standards and is a key feature for 2020. This is best seen through the launch of economy, intensive investment and new investments, the creation of new jobs and the reduction of unemployment. Serbia now represents a safe country, a country of peace and stability and as such is attractive to investment. In 2019, we have direct foreign investments amounting to 2 billion 320m euros, or 43% more than 2018. We are proud that in the last three years Serbia is for the second time the world leader in attracting foreign direct investment. It invests intensively in infrastructure and creating a better business environment, which is the reason for new, foreign investments and the creation of hundreds of new factories and new jobs. Unemployment in Serbia in the first nine months is 10.3%, while in 2013 it was more than 25%. Although this is a good result, our goal is to continue to reduce unemployment, and we will continue to fight in that direction. We have an additional incentive and a relief from new employment is a reduction from the income tax and from the tax on PIO for employers. As for the 2020 budget, the biggest increase has health -- 73% is a larger item of the budget, because we want to invest in higher salaries in health care, in infrastructure, the treatment of diseases for which there is no cure in Serbia, the treatment of chronic diseases, the purchase of medical equipment and the employment of new health staff. When it comes to capital investments, intensively invests in infrastructure and will continue over the coming years. They amount to around 260 billion for 2020. When it comes to infrastructure, I'm proud to say it's built over 300 kilometers of highways. Corridor 10 has been completed and funds have been allocated for Corridor 11, the Moravski Corridor, for building the Belgrade-Sarajevo highway and not to list the others, because we have heard them many times. So, we are talking about connecting municipalities and regions, which, in addition to building accompanying infrastructure, is a condition for speeding up development and raising the quality of life of citizens. We are talking about creating conditions for attracting foreign investment and speeding up economic growth. I am most pleased with the National Investment Plan, where more than 10 billion euros will be allocated to the municipal, traffic, energy, digital infrastructure, in promoting birth, building apartments for young people, in tourism, etc. An investment to implement a water and sewerage network with wastewater purifiers throughout Serbia will give a completely different picture of Serbia, a new, modern Serbia, where citizens will live incomparably more quality, as a large number of settlements that are only partially covered by a water and sewerage network, which is very important to citizens. The third year in a row, we raise salaries in the public sector, while next January's pensions will be increased by 5.4%. I therefore believe that the direction of action that President Vukic and this government are going is perfectly correct, that it leads to full stabilisation of public finances, the recovery of the Serbian economy and to ensure stability for growth in the years and decades to come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64460	Thank you. The word is by MP Jelena Vujic Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64461	Thank you, Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, by amendment. When it comes to the Republic of Serbia's budget, it is unequivocal that the Single Serbia parliamentary group will support this budget, which is both developmental, which is not the electoral budget and which is actually talking about the survival and remnant of Serbian citizens in the Republic of Serbia. When we talk about the 2020 budget, we should just point out all the important projects that have preceded this budget and where we have a continuation of investment in infrastructure, in equipment, but I also hope that, in the future, there will be an accent and investment in staff. For me coming from southwestern Serbia is very important, as counterpart Dragana Barisic mentioned yesterday, the construction of the Moravian Corridor, because there are sometimes municipalities that were industrial centres in this part of southwestern Serbia, until 2012, when it came to the industry, there was a total breakdown of these industrial centres, and this is hope for this part of Serbia and Tristenik, Aleksandrovac, Kruševec, so let me also say Kraljeva to Cačka, not only when it comes to the highway, which is certainly very important and transitory, but also when it comes to raising the industry in this part of Serbia. For us, however, from Unity Serbia, what is very important is the detachment from the budget in the fight against the white plague, when it comes to the birth and birth of more funds of the family's financial support with children. This is very important because every new baby, every new child in Serbia, represents Serbia's future and all cities should look up to centres like Jagodina, which last year built a cornerstone for building another kindergarten, which means that these cities are cities where children are born. And indeed, full of respect for such cities, where it is invested and where local self-governments and not just the state stand out when it comes to birth. Also, very important, because I come from the agricultural area, it is a greater separation, and I hope that the Ministry of Agriculture will pay even more attention to some new laws when it comes to agriculture and especially villages that are in these mountainous agricultural areas such as the sub-coastal area, where the last two or three years have indeed been major natural disasters, where farmers themselves cannot fight nature, so that there is a really greater support for both countries and local self-governments of agriculture and farmers and even citizens living in rural areas by the relevant ministries. Certainly, the Single Serbia will support this budget, which is good, domestically. The Ministry of Education, I see that there are also increased funds and a lot of investment in education, in digital classrooms, digital teaching. Certainly education is the pillar of the Republic of Serbia and that we should support this budget. Also, the Members of Unity Serbia support your work, Mr. Mali, and certainly that the political decisions that took place last month and the previous week cannot be accepted and put ahead of your professionalism and profession, and I think that the citizens of Serbia know that and that once it should stop any controversy on political decisions, where one part of the public has already made a decision and ruled in advance, so that we support you in your work, we support the Ministry of Finance, the budget of the Republic of Serbia, the Single Serbia parliamentary group headed by Dragan Markovic Palm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64462	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Jahja Fehratovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64463	Thank you. They're running infrastructure issues yesterday and today. What one MP said yesterday is the essence of all possible reflections. It is said yesterday in a discussion -- who will come where there is no good roads, where there is no infrastructure, thinking about investors and thinking about the development of the economic prosperity of one end. That's why we at the Justice and Reconciliation Party insist on infrastructure projects, and that's why we've been showing coldness and fears that everything that's been proposed here in the budget, which is really developed, is it ever going to be realized, especially when it comes to those parts of infrastructure projects that are related to our end, i.e. That loan from the Republic of Turkey to rehabilitate the two As, the state order of Novi Pazar - Tutin, because we are witnesses indeed, and that is the essence, that where there is no good infrastructure, there are no investors, there are no factories. This is a susceptible area for causing all possible impatience, misunderstandings, to create an economic dependence on the public and ultimately to drain the population. That is why it is very important for all that is in this budget to be finally and realised and that citizens, finally in this process of decentralisation of Serbia, begin to feel these benefits of healing our economy and good availability of funds, because otherwise it is waiting years, however, to open roads. We've had enough of those road openings. I will remind you that we have had perhaps six or seven openings on the New Pazar bypass, from the time of Kostunica, and Tadic, so on this one, and it all ended at the opening of the works, but never specifically has the project been completed. We are convinced, we believe that this government and this budget have a different relationship and that they will actually start with what is started, that they will not only stand on that support wall of a few dozen meters, when it comes to Novi Pazar – Tutin this time, but also when it comes to the pipeline and when it comes to all infrastructure projects without which there is no economic development. Also, what's very important to us are these agricultural issues. The subsidies granted to agricultural producers for years are thought to be very good, that it stimulates the development of the livestock fund, especially for the visors like the Cave High, means a lot to farmers. It's something that in any case, in every form, we need to support and re-design new kinds of projects like this, because we are confident that only such projects can bring our agriculture back to life, especially those at high mountainous altitudes. In this respect, I remind ourselves once again of our programme, that it should be considered that these altitude zones are free of much of the tax so that these villages survive and that we have the opportunity to revive their development in every way possible, because without this agriculture, without the development of rural areas, we cannot expect success in this fight against the white plague, nor that any way is brought back to life by our environments, especially those without infrastructure projects, especially those that have been waiting for infrastructure projects for ten years, decades and already on the verge of patience, when it comes to realising some large projects. We are pleased with all these announcements, the people are waiting and it might really be very important, with priorities to put the realization of these projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64464	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mr. Sinisha Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64465	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, I would like to speak to Ambassador Djuric about the questions he has asked. You have asked two questions, therefore, regarding two cases relating to monetary fees, i.e. fines and penals. What's particularly important is a four, eight and five conto. The damages compensation, the 2020 plan is 5.9 billion, but four billion, so most of it relates to the old foreign savings, and that's the money reserved by the Public Debt Administration. As you know, the law has some deadlines and by the end of the year we will know what is the total debt that the Republic of Serbia owes for the old foreign currency savings. In order to be careful, we've just put that amount of four billion on that continent, if there's any need to pay it off next year. On these other fines and pens, so 14.3 billion -- 14.4 billion is that figure. I've already done that, and I can read it to you again. So, "Energo Green" 3.6 billion, a dispute that was launched in 2007; "Kuns Trans", an Austrian firm, a dispute that was launched in 2001, which was lost by the state of Serbia; "Dunav Insurance", 298 million dinars, a 2011 ban debt, a judgment in favour of Aik Bank, 973 million dinars, on the basis of the 2010 contract; judicial rulings in the field of environmental management, agriculture, labour and legal disputes; 21 million is a judicial verdict in favour of the "Serbian Bank"; a verdict in favour of Binajka Morava in bankruptcy from Vranja. So these are court disputes that the state lost on the basis of contracts that the previous governments signed. Unfortunately, as a serious state, when you lose your arbitration, you have to honor that obligation, that money to pay. I agree with you that the big money, what's very important to us, is that we don't repeat such mistakes in the future, not us, but that these, where we're lucky, knew how to do things before us not to make these mistakes. It's huge numbers, it's really invisible money. But what's important for Serbian citizens is that we've put everything in the 2020 budget transparently, I'll dare say, for the first time, probably ever, in order to know exactly how much we owe, what we need to pay back, and that as a state, we respect our obligations. On the other hand, what we have to work on together with the D.A. and other bodies is that such cases do not happen again in the future or at least to be reduced to a reasonable measure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64466	Thank you. National MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Ljiljana Mihajlović. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64467	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, in Article 2 on whose position the amendment is proposed, the motion deals with calculations on the financing of the budget deficit, i.e. the supply of funds to cover it. Of course, it is about new foreign borrowings and, interestingly, the proponent optimistically concludes that the borrowing will be greater than the funding needed to finance the deficits. So it comes to the conclusion that the new task is simple and easy to come up with a solution, and the fact that we are re-indebted and that the charge will already come in the next budget. The deficit is transferred from one year to another, and there is the possibility that due to new debts and interest, it will be even greater. Incomes that can enter the budget by two basics are expected, from privatisation or favourable long-term, concessional loans. But we don't know what kind of privatisation it is, and even less what time period it will be over. Analysing that and when will the loan to cover the deficit be taken? How much privatisation money can it count on? What if the first and the second and a few more attempts at that possible privatisation fail? These are all questions that this member of the Budgets does not offer us answers. Instead of concrete data on expectations of privatisation, the unwarranted optimistic conclusion is once again that other credit sources and state securities emissions from values on the domestic and foreign markets will be reduced proportionally. Of course, if there are privatisations and if there are other revenues at all, it's all one big if, so in this amendment, I've led to the position of the 6th Article 2 and should start with if. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64468	Thank you. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will continue after 18 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64469	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers, fellow MPs and MPs, the amendment, of course, should not be accepted. What I must say first is that the budget is planned to improve the quality of life of every citizen in the Republic of Serbia. Responsibility, hard work and the result are the main postulates of SNS, President Alexander Vukic and this Government. First of all, I have to look back to make it look like we're all forgetting the period until 2012. The budget is a basic economic document, but, of course, in 2012, by taking over the government and coming to the power of the SNS, it inherited a completely collapsed economic policy, and on social policy as its upgrade, I will not even talk about it, because it was all just dust and ash. So there was neither economic policy nor social policy. The yellow tycoon company, Djilas, Tadic and Jeremic, robbed citizens and the Republic of Serbia of 100 billion euros in 12 years. More than 2,400 companies went through the privatisation process, and by the end of 2011, one third of these contracts were terminated. Companies bought their tycoons, not to keep and hire workers and improve the quality of life, but to install them, and those who bought these businesses were, above all, buying for their location and for land that they later converted into city building land. As an example of robbery privatisation, the town of Kraljevo, where Magnochroma employed thousands of workers, was even brought out of the privatisation process by machines and cut into metal. Thanks to the responsible SNS policy in the King's first investors and first factories, Alexander Vukic and the policy he conducts, that is, SNS policy. So we have to start from that if nothing is inherited. All these years, and thanks above all to the fiscal consolidation measures that began at the post of Prime Minister Aleksandar Vucic, our finance and our economy has been cured and therefore for the third year in a row we are talking about surpluses in the budget, so we are talking about the biggest capital investments in 2020, which is why we are talking about the employment of 14,000 workers in the health system for the last five years, so we are talking about increasing pensions that will be between 13% and 19% from January of the month. Not to forget, this government, the SNS and our president and in 2014, when they decided to be painful, but only possible economic measures, were just led by responsible social policy and exactly 60% of pensioners are not covered by pension cuts. No single dinar has been reduced, and no right in the area of protection of the most vulnerable and vulnerable in the area of social protection has been reduced during that time. The receptions were regular and safe. This budget is proof that pensions and salaries will be secure, as the budget is based on real foundations. It is not like in the period 2008 to 2012, when, otherwise, in 2011 and the IMF from Serbia, it ran away with its head, regardless of how it would maintain this yellow tycoon enterprise, peace and to prepare for elections, four times increased pensions on completely unrealistic grounds, in debt to expensive commercial loans, which, of course, today we must return to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. In the end, I have to say that this week has been declared a week of activism, a week of fighting violence against women. The National Assembly and this government adopted and confirmed many international documents, but also passed laws in terms of preventing violence against women in the family, but I have to read you a tweet. It is a tweet from the Alliance for Serbia, tweeted by Vuk Jeremic, who is full of brutality, vulgarity, the most disgusting and the most ground floor dictionaries towards the woman, that is, according to Prime Minister Ana Branbic. Vuk Jeremic, who is otherwise known for receiving bribes from foreign embassies, has been proven to be the one who will be remembered in Serbian history for the most important issue, the Kosovo issue, moved from the UN to the EU, the one who has agreed with his friends now in the Alliance for Serbia, set a border on Jarinj and Brnjak between Serbs and Serbs, he says on his tweet, "This hoarse will one day be called Interpol's red warrant." He further says, "This will happen at the detailed request of the special prosecutor for high corruption established after the regime's fall." So this tycoon and these robbers of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia know that at the time of their government and the prosecution and the judiciary were under their influence. "It will not be saved by foreign citizenship or various lobbys," said Vuk Jeremic of the government, Ana Brnabic. Serbia is a state of decent, normal, civilized people. That is why the upcoming elections will send such a yellow den into the past, and only Alexander Vukic's politics can lead Serbia into the future and progress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64470	Thank you. The word has the people's messenger, Andrian Avramov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64471	Thank you, Chairman. The 2020 budget will certainly be properly focused on capital investments, re-increasing pensions, to help citizens who are in charge. Then we have even more investment in road infrastructure, which actually contributes to growth in the economy, and it is extremely commendable that more resources have been allocated and when it comes to social protection. The capital is something that drives the world and is of great importance to every country. No capital, simple, no progress. All items are equally important, but first of all, I would like to commend the disbursement of the economy from taxes and contributions, which also contributes to the greater interest of investors. There has been a noticeable increase in exports over 20%, where the above budget has enabled greater subsidies for production activities. We have bigger investments in the food industry. In order to export the final products, we have also allocated funds to the purchase of new machinery and tools, we have provided larger investment loans for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and we support the development of entrepreneurship. As far as travel infrastructure is concerned, we continue with the same trend. We have the end of Corridor 10 and 11, so I would remind the citizens of the construction of the road from Požega to Preljina, the construction of the Moravia Corridor. The construction of the Belgrade-Zrenjanin road, the highway "Vozd Karadjordje" and the Danube highway is also planned and is certainly planned under the new investment cycle to continue the construction of roads, railways, investment in airports and water transport. Greater investment in education and innovation has also been observed. The project of related schools continues, which will allow a total of 1,000 schools to be connected to the fast internet by September 2020, as well as the equipment of another 10,000 digital classrooms. The restoration of complete computer equipment in the following year is our priority and the Fund for Science, Research, or Development is doubled. It's important to emphasize. The budget also identifies funds for the renovation of dozens of primary and secondary schools. I'd like to highlight more investment in high-tech technology. So we must be in a trend with Europe, i.e. the EU. Serbia, like any other country, depends on information technologies, and for this reason it is important that we remain in progress with all the development of information, so we are also taking the most active role. This is an advantage in our future development, in the development of our children, above all, and for this reason there is a considerable increase in funding for their improvement, which will also speed up Serbia's financial flow. The positioning of tourism and the greater investment foreseen in this budget also contributes to the development of our economy. The city of Belgrade is the main economic, economic, development centre of the Republic of Serbia and is considered one of the oldest cities in Europe. There are extensive works being done in Belgrade. We've been editing the city for several years, and so far we've made 20,000 square meters of walking zone in the center of town. It was also built "Belgrad on Water", over 350 facades were built in our local municipalities, Kosančić and Obilić's wreath were arranged, the reconstruction of Karadjordje's street, Knez Miloš, was completed, and I would especially like to highlight the opening of Pupin's bridge connecting Zemun and Borč on the Danube. Tourism is being imposed in this context as an inevitable complex with growing potential. Since we have various structures of tourist offer and that we recognise this potential, which would be, in time, we create our position on the market and invest through various reconstructions and capital projects in line with the latest trends, which can be seen, and which brings us a significant increase in income from tourism, i.e. tourists. For the third year in a row, we also have an increase in public sector wages, so there will be next year. Pensions are expected to increase as of January of 5.4% according to the so-called pension. ‘Switzerland formula’ and an increase in minimum earnings to 30,000 dinars. I think the proposed budget is one of the best in the last 10 years. This is a realistic view of the projecting of the Republic of Serbia's budget. Our economy is also doing great thanks to foreign and direct investment because strong economy is actually the most important for the budget. You certainly know that, Minister. I would also like to commend a significant portion of the profits from public enterprises, which also contribute to such a balanced budget. Given that my colleagues have detailed the development budget and that, as a parliamentary group, we are time-limited, I would take this opportunity today to look back on the current developments of the past months, and they are related to my great concern, above all, as a citizen because of the growing threats to children, women, concern about the threat of slapping us citizens and the threats directed to our president and the drive for his death, and all because we think and do better and different from others and because we proudly praise ourselves to the done. Perhaps we should be ashamed of the success of our president and our government, to be ashamed that more than 300km of highways have been built, bringing new factories and investments to our Serbia, citizens. We are creating, respected citizens, and we have the right to be proud of everything that has been done so far and to make it clear and loud that all citizens of the Republic of Serbia hear it. Our president, Mr. Alexander Vukic, has fulfilled the promise, as well as the above budget, paints the given word. In return, from a few people, we get insults, threats to children, family, relatives, punish us for being more successful and better than they are. We didn't put in our pockets over 500 million, like Mr. Gilas. We have the same media space as the so-called. ‘opposition’. I have to remind the citizens of this occasion on Studio B TV, when Mr. Gilas was mayor, because then through the same name television in 2008, he directly sought the strictest penalties for protesters and demanded years of imprisonment. I'll remind the citizens that he really meant it. We will recall Mr. Ranko Panic's case on July 29th 2008, during a protest rally that suffered, unfortunately, from fatal injuries. Mr. Panic, with severe injuries, came to the Emergency Centre the day after the rally, and unfortunately died of a severe blow to the stomach from which his colon broke, which caused the abdominal aorta to be shot. It's really shaken up. Because that man fought against the regime of Dragan Gilas and wanted to walk normally and peacefully to the RTS building. At the time, Mr. Gilas over RTS and "Study B", first crushed millions, and the second ran politics as if his televisions were listed, and Mr. Panic never mentioned it. Mr. Gilas, have you ever at least called the family of the late Mr. Panic, that's my first question, and why don't you publicly address your supporters in front of the RTS or the presidency, where a few of you are gathered? I assume you're afraid of the reaction of the people surrounding you. Mr. Gilas, what would happen today if our president had responded by force to your threats and several of your supporters coming, threatening, demanding, all under your authority? I suppose you'd crucify us all, hang us all on the terraces, shoot each and every five bullets in the back, as you're threatening. So, opposition leaders every day point their fingers at the reforms and measures of the current authorities, while their failures and political ideas hide or attribute to others, but you forget one thing -- the people are all remembered and not easily deceived anymore. That's a very important point. You clearly send messages of violence and hatred to everyone who thinks and works better and different from you. Many mistakes and false promises have been made to our people in the past during the rule of democratic power. We've heard it all, watched and experienced it, and that's why we'll never be guided by such politics. It's a policy of shared trust and disappointment. Today Serbia is giving hope and a future to its people, which also confirms today's draft budget ahead. Hate is not our solution, threats are not our solution, but peace, stability and exhaustive work and what the visible results are, as the budget says today. That's our answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64472	Thank you. The People's MP, Alexander Chabrai, submitted to the 2nd Amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) colleague of the Chabrai, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64473	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, here I have submitted more amendments to this budget, and although we can mostly hear only praises here at the expense of that budget, and we have just heard that it is intended for a more advanced and better life of all Serbian citizens, I wanted to just quote a famous novelist, Margaret Atwood, who is in her famous book "Slukin's Story" which is very current these days, although it was written more than 30 years ago. It's usually a book about a totalitarian regime. I would really recommend that everyone read it. By the way, I'm just translating this book, and it's very interesting, that totalitarian regime didn't bring down the opposition, it's a very interesting thing, but come on, we're not going to talk about it right now. I just wanted to quote one sentence that says, "It's never better for everyone, it's always better for some. "Now let's see who your "some" are"? So, I would like to tell you something about this budget from the point of view of not politicians, because I am not, but a citizen, who is employed by a private company and from the position of someone who deals in culture. And from one position to another, I can tell you that this budget is not a bit bright. We've heard so much about pay increases in the public sector, and we've heard so much about building everything and everything, and I have to say this specifically. So, from the point of view, I'm going to say again, someone who needs to fill the budget, not spend it, and these are the workers who are employed in private enterprises, for them this budget is not as good as it is for those who are in public enterprises. I don't want this opportunity to double citizens, but I want to say that it's far from being for everyone and that it's just as good for all of us as this budget. So a lot of things can be said negative. I don't know if you know, yeah, I wanted to say something very important. What you're saying is that everything that's been built, what's been done and a lot of it is good, I don't dispute it, of course it's good to do most of these things, that it's done by the president, the party, etc. Well, I have to remind you, dear gentlemen, I thought even if you knew that, there was no state money. There's only taxpayers' money, Serbian citizens. I think you should thank, instead of foreigners and your officials, the citizens of Serbia who filled that budget. Excuse me, I've been in politics for the past few years. Don't tell me about 2012 all the time, when I was doing the same at a private company, where I'm working now. It's none of my business. It's none of my business. I must disappoint you. Although, I must say, I envy some opposition colleagues, how many of them you mention here. That already looks like a kind of a commercial. [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64474	Thank you. You've wasted time, two minutes per amendment. You've been talking for almost four minutes. You only have two minutes. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64475	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I welcome all the chargers of the budget. Every citizen who joins the register, in any part of the Republic of Serbia, fills the Republic of Serbia's budget. It is especially filled by those who participate physically in production. Money is a commodity, a means to exchange goods. That's how they taught me and I respect it. Money is not printed, money is not shared, money is earned, first of all, by the production of goods and services. Now, when someone comes from a group where the leader was mostly getting money, so let's say 525 thousand euros, it probably belongs to a net winner, and gives a less lecture here, we get the impression that this person alone, no one else has joined the budgeting. If someone attends the sessions only one-fifth, only one-fifth of the time in relation to the colleagues who are constantly present here, if someone does only one-fifth of his job, and gets full personal income, if someone doesn't show up at his job for almost a year, and regularly receives a salary from that same budget that fills all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who access any cash registers, in any supermarket, shops, gas station, then it's a hypocrisis. So you can't pull out of the Republic of Serbia's budget on one side and then come and say, "I belong to those who fill the budget." Yeah, it's mostly filled with those who make the goods, but it's filled with all the citizens, no matter what they do. They're filling it up, and they're filling it up, more than we think they are. It's filled with investors, filled with strangers, filled with foreign tourists. In various ways, the Republic of Serbia's budget is filled, but in various ways it is empty. So it's not moral to give that kind of lecture to the MPs who have been working here for a year, and you come 15 minutes, you receive the same personal income, and you have far less expenses, you don't have to set aside for clothes, shoes, etc., all of what we have to have here, when we're at the National Assembly sessions, we have to set aside for food, coffee, drinks, etc. We have certain costs when performing our function. We need to get there, etc. This way, you lie home, receive a certain fee, whether you receive only a flat-rate or a whole personal income, it is irrelevant, and then you give a lecture and say -- here I am, which fills the budget, etc., and forget that you entered the National Assembly as an association of citizens, remember well, as an association of citizens, an unregistered political party, which has not succumbed to any control of the Anti-Corruption Agency, because it is not a political party and does not have to hand over its reports annually to the Anti-Corruption Agency, which is a very suitable ground for corruption. And many of them drew a second salary from that budget by charging so-called. Clicking. So, in that group called a lot of them, Sasa Kradoulovic, they transferred money from the budget to their private firms by giving instructions as a reason to click. So that's what on the computer when you click the mouse and they're taking a few hundred thousand, I think a million, 800 thousand to a million dinars. So when we talk about charging and emptying the budget, we need to give you all the circumstances and say that we get paid, we don't come to work, but that's why we get paid regularly, and we can give you a lecture five minutes when we get to the session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64476	Thank you. My colleague, do you want to do the Rules of Procedure or the replica? (Alexandra Chabraya: Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64477	Article 104.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64478	Wait, so is it a business or a replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64479	All right, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64480	It's better if I recommend a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64481	Okay. I got a call from a colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64482	Then you have the right to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64483	Thank you. So, I was called here as someone who dared say it's full of budget. I have to tell my colleagues that he has no idea if I'm coming to work or not, because I'm not employed in the National Assembly. Yes, I am an MP, but my work book is not here. So, I'm asking you to check out how I work where my work book is and I'm sure you'll be impressed by my work performance. I'm totally convinced of that. I really don't think any of what's said is relevant to me. I especially want to point out that I am not participating, that I am not a member of anything, that I have come into office as a member of a group of citizens, that is correct. I'm very proud of that, because I think most of these citizens were extremely enthusiastic and were extremely interested and did the best they could to do something positive at that point. But to talk about that I don't know what kind of organization or group I'm doing something negative, I'm just asking you to start a little bit of supporting this stuff with evidence, because I absolutely have nothing to do with all this stuff you're saying. Everything you've been saying about me has been misdirected. Otherwise, I've said more than once that citizens, I think this is clear to them, and that citizens show far greater maturity than political parties in these moments, and I'm sure they'll be able to recognize it. As far as that session is concerned, let me say something about it. It is true that this year we have the right or some opportunity to say a word with these amendments, etc. But what I don't like is that the session still doesn't come down to the content of the budget, but mostly it still comes down to some bickering, prescribing who did what, which I don't want to participate in at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64484	Thank you. Right on the line, Marijan Risticevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64485	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't know if this was a violation of the Rules of Procedure or a replica? I believe it was a replica, so I'm entitled to a replica. I don't know what's been denied by what I said? The National Assembly site says it receives money from the National Assembly, 75,000 dinars. That's what it says. If he's lying to the Anti-Corruption Agency, then so am I. I want to believe that this Anti-Corruption Agency, which is not competent to compete with the association, was either a lot of them or a reboot, as they called it, I believe that the agency does not lie to the MPs individually. Each of our viewers could see for himself how many previous speakers were present at meetings of the National Assembly. I believe it's about a few percent. So on the issue of rights, they are identical to all the MPs, but on the issue of obligations, some MPs avoid these obligations. I think it's clear to everyone enough that those benches are often empty, that it's also clear to everyone that the Anti-Corruption Agency is not lying, that money is regularly received from the National Assembly, but it's irregularly coming. When someone whose leader Zoran Zivkovic got, as a net user, suddenly 525 thousand euros, holds moral sermons here, it is my obligation to the taxpayers to say – stop, enough is enough. Let's explain who's the net winner and who's the most involved in the budget. The most involved are those who physically produce goods, the ones who make the most GDP. It is divided into others and as that value you come to shops, you buy something through VAT and other taxes, excises you participate in filling the budget. That's what all citizens do, but those who, in my opinion, have the greatest benefit are the most rebelling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64486	The word has the People's MP Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64487	If there is one thing about an amendment in the same spirit as the previous speakers discussed, especially the honourable Member of the Chabrai? I would like to welcome that she has returned to the bench, which is taking part in the debate on the budget in plenary, and I hope that you will insist that you speak exactly in line with the Rules of Procedure on the agenda and on a concrete amendment that should be discussed, not that the MP criticises the political system of our country which is equal to the political system of all European democratic states, which is that political parties, groups of citizens, associations, individuals have the right to run in the elections if they meet the legal requirements and if they get the confidence of a certain percentage of Serbian citizens and implies that they are then represented in parliament. What some MPs obviously don't understand or won't understand is that they have become part of Serbia's political life, and have become politicians, whether they are formally members of a political party or are members of a group of citizens or, I don't know, citizens' associations. It seems to me that the honourable MP has entered this parliament as a member of the political movement is enough. Do you now belong, don't you belong, it's your private matter and it's allowed to change political commitment, to be fascinated, and to be disappointed in something in the meantime. You represent Serbian citizens as well as we who belong to political parties and nothing is ugly to be a member of a political party. You can't run in Germany without being a member of a political party. They don't recognize associations, groups of citizens, movements, I don't know, informally this, formally it, but to the most extent, the borders really defined it well. I'm usually the advocate of this political model. You must be a member of the political party. The political party is responsible for implementing the policy depending on the extent to which they have received or have not received the trust to form the government of a state. In Germany, you cannot be a minister in the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany if you are not a member of the political party. He can't. That's why I don't understand at all what these tendencies are to make this all out and that there are MPs worth more than other MPs who are members of political parties. Now it's honorable to be a member of the Citizens' Association enough, and then you're disappointed, so you say you're independent now, that you're independent, so you're worth more if you're employed in the private sector than we are right now, and you have a good conversation here. Never, except while I'm performing a public-political function like this, I've never worked in any state and public sector. I've worked my whole life in the private sector, and it's no longer worth anything from people who come to work with honor and do their job in some state institutions. I really don't understand these discussions. What does it lead to is that the political order in one country is devising membership in a foreign country, that the citizens of our country are convinced that they should no longer believe in political parties and that they should believe in movements that exist for a few months, and then everyone is bewitched, bewitched, disappointed, and then believe? Who do they trust now when that political movement you're complaining about... You say you're not a politician, and you don't understand that you are a politician. The day you entered this House, you became a politician... And when you run. And when you run. Thank you. While you were running, you must and represent some kind of policy here in the field of culture, in the field of health, in the field of information, in the environment, in animal protection against endangerment, I don't know, economics, foreign policy. You are now representing a particular policy and seeking the trust of the citizens of Serbia for some next round, to re-elected you. I say, I worked in the private sector, I'll probably go back to that private sector, before I retire, because the citizens of Serbia, of course, will vote again for the SNS, but I am obliged to explain to you who have a great delusion of what political life means and to explain to you, if you haven't realized in four or five years, that you are a politician, because you are with a certain political group enough to get votes. You have bewitched them, and now you have disappointed them that this movement no longer exists on the political scene of Serbia, except that you file charges, not realizing that every politician bears responsibility, unless he has stolen, for his political moves only towards the citizens of Serbia who will decide whether we did something right or did not do it right, and enough has only been in the tracks now filing some criminal charges against us, whether we vote one way or another, whether we opened the agenda point this way or in that way that morning. It is a layman's approach to politics, and I am obliged, as someone long in Serbia's political life, to help you with this delusion. So you're no longer worth anything from politicians who are members of political parties and the private sector... You're safe. I don't know if you're getting paid here or there, whether these 75,000 dinars you get monthly or not, but you chose not to come here yourself, go to your job, I don't know if you work in publishing or where you do, and occasionally stop by here and read a lesson to us who have devoted ourselves to politics with our full capacity, and also by respecting the law. I feel like I can't be a lawyer as Parliament Speaker, because I'm in conflict of interest. Imagine how they would look at me in court. So that would be a direct conflict of interest and of course I can't and I don't want to do it, but I welcome you, I am glad that you belong to most of the MPs representing the opposition, who are participating in Parliament's work. Go to the polls and nothing is ugly in this country or any country in the world to be a politician. Imagine if the US Congress attacked members of the Democratic Party or the Republican Party, saying they should be ashamed, that you came here now as a group of citizens to Congress to tell them that they should be ashamed of being clearly defined for some political option. I can't support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64488	Right on the line, MP Alexander Chabrai. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64489	Thank you. I just wanted to be completely accurate, I don't want to get very deep into everything that's been said. I just want to say a few things. So the first and most important thing I want to say, in answer, is that I'm just working to think that I'm worth it for this or for more than any other man here or anywhere else that would be, I don't even know Fascism, racism, I don't care about that at all. So that's not why I'm saying this. The reason I'm saying this is that maybe I'm looking at the budget from another angle and I wanted to talk about it. Otherwise, if I'm in the layman's policy, okay, that doesn't insult me at all, and I believe I am a layman, I believe I'm going to stay. One more thing that's very important, I want to say that of course I have nothing against political parties just doing the right thing, they should exist and have to exist. But as far as responsibility is concerned, which is also mentioned, I think it would be very important for our country, that we have not only the responsibility of political parties, but that every politician, whether it is a layman in politics, here as I am, or as experienced professional, or whatever you want a politician at the highest possible instance in the country, must bear personal responsibility for everything he does and speaks, is for such responsibility I will always be a citizen and as a politician, if you already think I speak as a politician. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64490	Right on line, MP Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64491	As far as I know, you're still in enough, but you're a member of the Green Serbia political party. Look at your data, it writes well, and it also says that you are in a permanent working relationship at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. You deny it, and I have no problem with that, with the fence that I am the greatest advocate that all 250 MPs must have a permanent working relationship with the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, so we will get in one greater seriousness and responsibility for this job. I'm an advocate of that. That's my personal opinion, that there's no excuse, I have to go to this job, I have to go to that job, these benches have to be full and everybody's doing a job at full capacity. Then there will be fewer misunderstandings about who does what. Serbian citizens chose us to work here, to represent them here, not to go to some diverse better-paid jobs. I'm personally against it, and I think we all have to be here, and we don't have some constant conflict of interest on the verge of whether you can still work and how people look at you when you go to that other job, and every day they know you're an MP, power or opposition, anyway. I'm saying, you have some information here on the Internet that's talking about your political engagement. Whether you're a layman or not, I don't know, from some of your discussions it works that way, but you're a politician point. You're a politician, you've run for office, you've got the trust of the citizens of Serbia, you're their representative here, you're in politics, you're in politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64492	Thank you. Right on the line, MP Alexander Chabrai.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64493	Thank you. I'm not gonna be long. I'm not a fan of the polemics of that kind. I just have to underline that there's more information that's listed in the discussion that's really not true. I've even written to the Open Parliament that there's a lot of incorrect information about me. I just need to underline, I'm not employed in the Assembly, I'm not a member of any political party. The data really isn't accurate. I wouldn't hold on to it anymore, I don't want to deepen that discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64494	Right on line, MP Maja Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64495	Let me just tell you, since you belong to these modern options politically, and you're probably an advocate of the great digitization of our society, which I am, so look at the Open Parliament data. You know about that? So none of this is true? All right, then try, when you have time from your basic job, where you work, not to lead the public astray, so download this information so that you do not receive 75,000 a month from the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, that you are not constantly employed here and that you are not a member of the Green Party. These are data from 2016, perhaps in 2016 when you were disappointed in Enough there was and you were a member of that party. I don't mind, I say Marinika Tepic you can't reach for flying and changing political options. I don't mind that, she got that title from me and all the honor, the Oscar's popularity is with her now. You are required for the public to update these data, to avoid coming into this controversy, to have the open parliament say one thing, and now in 2019, at the end of this year you claim the other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64496	The word is made by Parliamentarian Igor Becic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64497	Thank you. Dear colleagues, when we talk about Serbia's crime and collapse by the former regime, the previous speaker, Mrs. Cabraya remembers nothing, as well as Borislav Novakovic, a man whose honesty and generosity were felt by all residents of Novi Sad through the worst kidnapping of four million euros during one of the biggest frauds in the history of the city, and everything under the cover of financing the construction of the Boulevard of Europe. He again gave himself the right to lie with a bunch of lies yesterday by publicly attacking the mayor of Novi Sad, Milos Vukevic. As far as Novakovic cares about the truth, it is known long ago when this true love managed at the same time to be in Thessaloniki and vote in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and then without any shame he tried to explain to the citizens that it was possible. It is not by any chance the behavior of Borislav Novakovic, because he is looking for a straw of salvation that would justify the already proven fraud and robbery and try to present himself as a victim of the revenge of the state, which will punish him so honestly for bringing forth only the known truth. I warn the authorities not to fall for Novakovic's matchmaking fraud phases and start proceedings against him, bring an end to the way the law requires. As for the citizens of Novi Sad, they have long read Borislav Novakovic, and give their opinion of him through support for the policy he is leading, and this support is at the level of a statistical error and is getting smaller from day to day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64498	The word has the People's MP Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64499	I'm sorry, so it wouldn't have turned out that I made something up and that it remains unarranged, I'm sorry that Ambassador Alexander Chabray left the gym, because when you deal with politics you have to, she represents some personal responsibility in political moves, and she is responsible to the citizens of Serbia for what she said. I opened the Green Party website, they boasted that she had even become a MP, the new MP of the Green Party. So she entered parliament as Enough, claims she doesn't belong to any political party, and the Green Party boasts that she has become the new MP of the Green Party on 22 April this year, so it wasn't once. He says -- the green brigades on Planet Day cleaned up Novi Sad and Belgrade, and there's a message with MP Chabradi, and I'm glad that their political party is not boycotting parliament's work and that they have returned here to the plenary work and are discussing amendments to the budget. But, I say, let's clear the cities from the garbage, just the party that boasts that Mrs. Chabraya has become their new MP, from enough to the Green Brigades, to claim that from now on she should probably inform her MP, her president, Chabradi, that she has left his party. I just wanted to say that I'm telling the truth and nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64500	Thank you. The Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds submitted the amendment to Article 3. The proposing representative accepted the amendment at the meeting of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64501	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, a little extra for Mrs. Chabray. The Green Party of Mr. Chabradi is registered as a minority Slovak party, so here some present who are also false minorities will be able to comment on it in a better way than I do. So, the Green Party is a minority party. It is a party that has a natural census and I am not the one who will count blood cells to Mrs. Chabrai, nor Mr. Chabradi, but I am afraid that there has been an abuse of the party of national minorities, a team before Mr. Chabradi, the President of the Slovak Parliament, as a representative of the Slovak Party, who is only called the Green Party, has avoided being present in the National Assembly. If he were indeed a representative of Slovakia, a Slovak national minority, he would certainly welcome the president of his country's parliament. I must also say that Mr. Vulin and Mr. Komlenski's party and mine have asked that candidates from the national minorities' parties must be included in a special voter's list for national minorities in the election of councils. So that there is no abuse, that most, that the majority of people do not abuse privileges, or some kind of positive discrimination is meant for the breaks of national minorities. I don't know how many Russian parties we have, I don't know how many Vlach parties we have. Also, we have requested that the founders of these parties must also be included in the voter list of national minorities through whom they go to elections for the councils of national minorities, if I am not mistaken. So, both party founders and candidates of the party in the elections, local and republican, will be included in the special voter list, and in the elections can vote for them whoever they want. So it's simple not to abuse this species, as you can see, and it's likely that the party plans to go to the next elections as a party of the Slovak national minority which is essentially not. As far as the budget is concerned, I have to say, Mr. Minister, that the budget would be fuller. I asked the question "N1" television, "New S", "Sport Clubs", so unregistered fake, cross-border televisions that I claim stand behind all attempts at destruction, not power, but destruction of Serbia's state. These are the media that are fictitiously registered in Luxembourg and here allegedly re-emitting the program, and there is no re-emission without broadcasting. The Luxembourg regulator responded very clearly, and also Slovenianly, because they occasionally say they are re-emitting the programme from Slovenia, he made it clear that there is no re-emission, that the programme is not being broadcast there. If the program isn't broadcast outside, it can't be re-routed here. Therefore, it is not cross-border television and it is subject to REM registration, to register as domestic media. They don't do it, they go one step further. N1 television does not have a PIB, Mr. Minister. Every agricultural land has that, the natural person of agricultural land, the family agricultural land when crossing a certain amount must have a tax identification number, so-called. P.I.B. Every single better-quality singer has to register to have to pay her taxes. TV "N1" doesn't pay REM anything, RATEL nothing, doesn't pay advertising taxes. It can broadcast as many ads as it wants, a 12-minute limit does not apply to them because they are not registered in the Republic of Serbia, they do not have to record ads and thus earn income by working on black. They don't pay VAT on commercials, they don't have PIB, and I'm asking you, of course we're all the subject of demonization by these TVs "N1" and "New", why don't they have a PIB? Do we have to because of their permanent attacks on the officials of this state, on the parliament, on the MPs, now on the doctors of science, the doctors of science became doctors of torment, all shaking, all terrified of these televisions that work illegally? The leader of the TV, the programme's director, is financed by "Bački Mulay", the leader of the tropoly mafia. I'm not saying that, says Nebojsa Medojevic, who is very close to Yugoslavia, Cosic. He's funded by the leader of the Tropical Mafia, and, behold, miracles, by a private company that's registered for production, and he got money for advice, for business advice. I wonder what Yugoslavia's Ćosic advised Albanian mobster, drug dealer, money launderer, suspected by the UN, and Nebojsa Medojevic conveyed it to the parliament of Montenegro? Everyone's shaking because of that TV. That TV doesn't have a PIB. It is used by the PIB "Adrie News" d.o.o. registered for the production of the programme, not for transmission. If "Adria News" is television, then it must have the title – Adria News. The TV "N1" is used, registered in Luxembourg, by the FIB "Adria News" of the domestic legal entity. That's not possible. It would be just like if I started the television here and I said, "I don't have a PIB," but I'm doing business as part of the agricultural land. TV "N1" claims that they operate under "Adria News" d.o.o. Belgrade. If that's the case, then they have to be registered here. They're registered in Luxembourg. Then we don't have to have, every company when it starts another company, that other company founded must have a PIB. Here, all MPs know that. How come "N1" TV and "New" don't have to? They're registered in Luxembourg, Luxembourg, fictitious, don't broadcast, they're reportedly re-emitting here. They don't pay anything there, they don't pay anything here. That's where they say -- we do it in Serbia, and here they say -- no, we broadcast the programme in Luxembourg and Slovenia, we only re-emission here. They don't pay taxes there, they don't pay here. They don't have a P.I.B. here. How can a foreign legal person do business within Adria News, a domestic legal person? Then let's get rid of all the companies, all the business within a company. We say, you know what, I start a company and I don't want to register it, I don't have to register it, because I'm doing business within the previous firm. When a legal person establishes a legal entity, the other legal person, regardless of what is connected, must have a home number and a PIB. N1 doesn't have that. Forged, it is used by another company's PIB, which is not even the founder of N1 television. If he's the founder, then they have to be domestic media. And since they are not even the founder, in what capacity then Yugoslavia Ćosic quoted PIB Adria News d.o.o. as saying on N1's memo. Belgrade? They don't pay taxes on commercials here or there. They're pumping money from SBB's subscription, and they're reducing the profit tax. Telecom is being paid, I think, 150 million, an operator with far less coverage in the Republic of Serbia than SBB, the SBB is dominant, they pay 150m euros annually to the Republic of Serbia's budget. The SBB doesn't pay anything, simulates losses. Since these important cross-border televisions are pumping up the subscription and income from commercials, it's all in some United Media, all of it crisscrosses there, and then Mr. Solak drives two "fallon" new ones, and the government of the Republic of Serbia barely bought one, but doesn't know it's a "fallon". He drives one of 35 million, one of twenty. One serves him for the overseas golf course and the other for these Europeans. Then he still laughs at RTS, where they also have their own scheme, about TV transmissions, he publishes, they have to read, he's not a taxpayer here, he's in Switzerland. His business is here, he doesn't pay taxes here, and in Switzerland he pays taxes. How long are we gonna put up with this? N1 has no FIB, is not a taxpayer, works on black, endangers domestic media, and this must be put in the way. Don't let the officials, MPs, now and the doctors scare their media propaganda, their heist, etc. The leader of this is Solak and Gilas. They protect their business and they make a mess and chaos in the state of Serbia and we have to stand in the way once. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64502	Thank you. The word has been made by Parliamentarian Olivera Pesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64503	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we were able to hear different reviews during the debate of the MPs' people, from the fact that this budget is pre-election, electoral, and to the point from the previous speaker that this budget is not very bright. What I mean at the outset is that we SNS MPs are proud of the 2020 Budget Law, and we believe that this is one historic budget, as 260 billion are planned for public investment, 40 billion more than in 2019, and Serbian citizens know well how much it was done in 2019 in Serbia. When we talk about the agricultural budget, I'm only going to mention one segment of investment, because I don't think there's much to say about it. So, I want to commend the allocation of money to electrify the field in this budget. For all agricultural producers in Serbia, but also for agricultural producers in the town of Leskovac, electrification of the field is of great importance because the cost of production will be reduced. I say, for the town of Leskovac and for agricultural producers, it is especially important because we have defined our strategic development branch as agriculture. So the analysis shows that the irrigation of electricity five to seven times costs production and that's the money that will remain for our farmers. Huge money is also set aside in the 2020 budget for environmental protection projects. For the town of Leskovac this budget has been planned for large allocations for the completion of the main city collector, and the project has great importance for environmental protection, as it will allow better living conditions for all of our citizens, it also has great importance for attracting investors, but also for saving the city of Leskovac. As a city on an annual level, we have to set aside about 15 million to empty the so-called. Septic tanks for only one company currently employed by about 1,200 workers, and the contract will employ 3,000 workers next year, which means that the costs the city will have will be double the size of, so that, when production increases, the amount that Leskovac city has to allocate for that purpose will also increase. So, by completing the construction of the main city collector, apart from savings, we will be more attractive as an attractive city for investors, and on the importance of this project for environmental protection, I find it unnecessary to speak. To go back to the budget and conclude, because of the time we have at our disposal. The macroeconomic indicators are clear and they say Serbia continues to develop rapidly, and if we look at some of the most important facts, they say – in 2012 unemployment in Serbia was almost 26%, today it is 10%, and at the end of the year we expect it to be a single-digit figure. The average salary in 2012 was 320 euros, with an average salary of over 500 euros expected in December. The minimum labour price was 17,000, and now it's 30,022 dinars. Public debt when we took responsibility was 78%, today is 51%, and budget projections for 2020 are at 50.3%. Inflation 2%, a stable course of dinars, so these are all indicators that clearly state which way Serbia is going. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64504	Thank you. The 3rd amendment, with a correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Muamer Zukorlic and Jahja Fehratovic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Zukorlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64505	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, the intensity of our amendment was aimed at correcting certain obvious errors that occurred in Article 3's formulation, but it was actually done by the amendment of the Committee, which is, in fact, the most important thing, that the effect was achieved. What I want to point out to this occasion, given the orientation of the budget in the development direction, concerns the need to try to find new energy in the distribution of development funds that has not yet been used, to consolidate it and try to change the development environment, especially in areas outside large centres in the country, such as peripheral spaces or spaces known as the interior of the country. So here I'd like to focus on young people, we have various programs, various donations, even grants from various funds, it has some effects. But I think it would be very important to find the possibility of funding young people with regard to the start of a personal or family business, especially young couples, through therefore financial interventions or loans or credits, free of charge financial intervention. I think it would be one new energy, because the effects of the grants have proved not so good since responsibility falls. So this would be an initiative that we could consider more significantly in the next period. If you give a young man who runs the business, then you give a certain loan, you actually commit him with responsibility to use all of his own potential to make his business work. As long as we don't have that kind of responsibility in terms of grants. On the other hand, the possibility of starting a business of young people from classical credits that are burdened with interest is actually causing the other side of the problem, which is a burden in the case of total or partial failure where loans are increased due to interest, and they are often the reason that people do not dare and do not have the courage to enter their own business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64506	Thank you. The word is from the MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64507	Thank you, Mr. Arsic, Your Honor. Here we are slowly bringing to an end the debate on the budget and we have shown that there is indeed a great space in Parliament for dialogue, for opinion, for criticism, for why not for constructive debate. During that time, MPs of the Alliance for Serbia are not in the hall, or MPs who have come to the Alliance for Serbia, it is not a parliamentary party, are not interested in discussing the most important budget for our citizens and are doing nothing but inventing new affairs. It was a completely pointless "Krusik" affair, and it was completely pointless to attack Nebojsa Stefanovic. Also now, the completely pointless attacks on Mr. Sinisha Mali, the minister who is present here, and all that concerns your doctorate is, in my opinion, a purely political issue, namely, a better word of revenge for all the good you have done to Serbia, first of all, on the basis of your knowledge. For them, everything that is bad for the citizens of Serbia is obviously good. They led us to have to carry out difficult reforms, to have to carry out unpopular measures. But today we are no longer a country that is going to go bankrupt, we are a prosperous country with a growth rate of over 4%, and in their time the growth rate was even negative and went to minus 3%. Such people are going out to the streets today, possessed by the principalate and the university institutions, such pressures are being made to weaken ministers in every way, weaken the government, and eventually Alexander Vukic, who leads Serbia forward and the whole story. No matter how hard they try, they won't succeed, because in this country the people will wonder. We're going to have choices, so let's see we can put their results across the way from our results, see what people choose, and we can put their vandalism across our results, see if people will choose new factories or shut down jobs and shut down factories, whether the people choose a better standard or not, whether they choose new schools and kindergartens or not, new investments or not, or 500 million to support young people, etc. Therefore, the SNS parliamentary group will support the budget and continue to be confident that you will have the support of the parliamentary group for all proposals coming from the Ministry of Finance, because their adoption for our country means that we have shown great seriousness, means financial stability and means a better standard of living for our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64508	Thank you. Now I'm setting a regular break for an hour. We'll continue work at 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64509	Dear People's MPs, we continue our work. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64510	Thank you. In the light of the circumstances, this amendment was quite detailed yesterday, and Mr. Minister and I talked a little bit about it on the Finance Committee, but I cannot, since this is now official, come in line without looking back at this item, or what it says -- a project of urban development, with the construction of a national stadium. With all the understanding and attempt to understand and the argument offered here in the rejection of my amendment, as well as what we heard yesterday in the debate, it still seems to me that this argument that the amendment is not accepted, and the amendment is actually about eradicating or removing this item -- building a national stadium, and hence, saving at least 150m euros and the possibility of them using it, or not withdrawing that money and making use of themselves for something else and more useful in the budget. As an explanation, it is stated to me that the realization of this project will contribute, quote: "urban development of the city's continent, as a new business centre and thus enables the generation of income, the creation of new jobs and the promotion of sport. Also, the Republic of Serbia will become competitive with other European countries by sport infrastructure and increase the chances for its bid to organise major and significant sports events." That's what's said. In the debate with Mr. Minister and with representatives of the ruling coalition, I heard a few more things that are partially repeated, partially recapitalised and partially added some new elements to this justification and attempt, I would say, the justifications of this project to build a national stadium. One is special reasons, new jobs, a market centre, not a sports centre, but a whole business centre, a new city in the city, which will also be a tourist attraction, so we have this business, tourist and economic argument and will strengthen our chances of getting big organisations, big sports competitions. Finally, another thing that has been mentioned, although there is no explanation here, is mentioned that they already have, and that is the Ministry of Sports, since I have been dealing with this topic for a long time and in one of the answers it has been mentioned that many other countries in the environment have a national stadium, so Hungary has been mentioned and Albania is mentioned, if I am not mistaken. You see, I have correctly recaptured all the arguments in favour of that, or what is stated in the contribution of the national stadium. I still think that these arguments are weak, that there is no justification, even in the budgets of countries that stand better than Serbia, there is no need, no sports, no economic, for building such a project. I have already mentioned, to us and Arena, the Belgrade Arena, there are pains and difficulties with rentability, it is absolutely impossible that such a single centre and such a national stadium could be meaningful in both financial and sports terms. It is much better, if necessary, to invest in the reconstruction of existing sports stadiums, i.e. football stadiums in Belgrade and regional centres, than to build such money, which is the orderly size of those funds that Russia invested in its stadiums when it organized the World Cup, Biern Munichski, which is a little less, built his football arena and is simply inappropriate in both sports and economic terms, and I would say that there is not enough justification. We won't even get a chance to organize these sports events, and I'm saying, with some renovation, these existing two serious stadiums in Belgrade, with much less money, could have a similar effect. It's some kind of recentity, it's some kind of megalomania, which isn't suitable for the country either, so the country of our size, and especially our economic strength, no matter how many days we've been listening to our economic performances being good, excellent and getting better. Just to conclude, in this light, I would particularly draw attention to the fact that in the presentation in the work of the minister, and especially a colleague from the ruling majority, she has constantly figured out and often she has figured out a single item, a syntagma, an expression, and that is the National Investment Plan. We've heard a lot of nice words on account of this investment plan that's going to make it possible, and it's going to list what's going to make it possible, and we don't really know what we're talking about. That's what most citizens of Serbia hear when they hear the words - the National Investment Plan, it associated them with Mladjan Dinkic and the famous NIP and G 17 plus, and then we had big words about this national investment plan, investment cycles, and we even had the ministry, as it was called, Verica Kalanovic was, the NIP Ministry, I think it was called, Verica Kalanovic was the minister for that, and we saw how the project ended. So, what I'm saying is that a good part of this optimistic, parading or representative part of this budget and this debate that we're hearing, is largely resting on, one part of the economic results so far, and largely on something that will only be or we'll see what it contains, and that's this famous national investment plan, which, I say, brings me together uncomfortablely on Mladjan Dinkic and G 17 plus and what we've already had with the NIP, is the best case cat in the bag. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64511	Thank you, Mr. Vukadinovic. The word has Dr Milan Ljubic. Here you go, Mr. Ljubic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64512	Dear Chairman, honourable ministers, honourable MPs, as I come from Nis, I will remind you of what the former government has actually failed to do for the benefit of its citizens. First of all, we have shown that serious and responsible policy is possible to achieve much. To start a city like Nis with six newly built factories, modern traffickers that will travel faster to Greece and Bulgaria, which will continue to develop the industry, where our people will have the opportunity to work in the most modern Science and Technology Park, where security services will be allowed to address housing issues under more favourable conditions, that our health insurance companies no longer have to go to other centres, never again invested and built in Nis. We were able to ensure one trend of security and faster realization of investments, all that was not the case until 2012. Nis of the city with a large number of municipal problems and unfinished projects managed to raise itself in just a few years. The period is characterised by the government's strong support, especially President Vukic, who personally engaged in bringing investors, building six new factories. From 2012 until today in Nis we have 11,000 unemployed. Thus, the city of Nis, from which I come, in collaboration with China's giant "Huaway" will implement the "Smart City" project. Building a scientific and technological park in Nis will create conditions for further development of information and communication technologies and transfer of knowledge as the most valuable product. Thanks to the government and our president, Alexander Vukic, Nis is once again the center of regional industry and the city of advanced technologies. The 2020 budget also provided money for a research and technology park in Novi Sad. In addition to investing in information technology, it is the government's strength to seek to keep our experts in the country, to attract various companies to invest in research and development. All this is important for Serbia's overall economic development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64513	Thank you, Dr. Ljubic. The word has Dr. Rancic. Here you go, Dr. Rancic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64514	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister Mali, at the very beginning of my presentation, I must say that this is a comprehensive and development budget, but I would add, although I haven't heard from the MPs, that this is also a socially responsible budget, not as part of the opposition so-called. The quasi elite, and I would call it "a scum elite", claims the budget is pre-election. Why did I use this epithet? Because they are not an opposition to the government, nor to the SNS, but they are an opposition to the Republic of Serbia, which does not care about the survival of Serbs, as a people, but only to the taking over of power. So much for that. As a member of the Assembly Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction, I will talk about Section 30, so I'm on the subject of the budget, which concerns the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs, because so far we haven't talked about this Section. When it comes to the 2020 Budget Law, which refers to the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs, it is spoken in the language of numbers in billions and millions of dinars. For this, the ministry envisions 139.2 billion dinars from all sources of funding, i.e. 127.1 billion dinars from the budget. So, from the budget normally higher than in 2019 for 5.8 billion dinars, compared to the 2019 budget rebalance, and 12.3 billion dinars, respectively, compared to the 2019 initial plan. The majority was provided for the payment of users' rights in the area of protection of families and children, i.e. more for 1.9 billion dinars than it was for 2019, accounting for the budget rebalance of 63.2 billion in 2019 and 65.1 billion in 2020. Compared to the 2019 initial plan of 55.2 billion dinars, the funds are higher by 9.9 billion dinars. If we look at 2018, where 53.7 billion dinars are defined, for these rights funds are planned for more than 11.4 billion dinars. So the numbers are all saying how much these are increased funds. This way, when you look at these real resources that stand out for the protection of families and children, it makes sense to the Law on funding family support with children, which is proposed in the Assembly. For example, a set of laws has been announced where, according to Minister Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, 300,000 will be for the first child and for the second 10,000 per month for the next five years. Also, the fact that the number of children born in Serbia is growing in 2019, Serbia is the only country in the region that has managed to move at least a little better for this trend of growth, because without changing the trend in the population, or the number of children born, there is no point in talking about the future of Serbia that DOS wanted to steal from us. When it comes to social protection, budget funds for more than 2.6 billion dinars compared to 2019. 420 million dinars have been allocated to support foster workers. Speaking of this item in this assembly, it's been said that foster care is a business because it's about 50,000 per child. I have to say that foster care is nothing but parenting and it's very responsible. In the case of martial law, funds are provided in a larger amount of 700 million dinars, with the largest part of the projected greater funds for the payment of rights of beneficiaries of martial law and 20 million more for the support of association projects in the field of martial law. Finally, all praises to the government and the minister, Sinishi Malom, who works as a great minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64515	Thank you, Dr. Rancic. The word is by Prof. Dr. Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic. Here you go, Professor.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64516	Thank you, Chairman. Dear People's MPs, I support the decision of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds that has accepted the government's argument and proposed to the National Assembly that the amendment challenging the Urban Development Project with the construction of a national stadium is not accepted. I believe that the draft budget for 2020 is well planned and properly distributed by sectors, i.e. that the proposed budget allocation takes into account the need to ensure, above all, safe and stable financing of current work, but also to provide funding for further investment in investments in all sectors, and in the education sector, in the health sector, in the economy, in sports, in culture, in environmental protection. If that were the case, I would illustrate the sector from which I came, which has not been discussed much in the previous assembly debate. Namely, my parent home when it comes to professional commitment is the university and the scientific and research community of our society and I want this opportunity specifically to look at the budget breakdown of the funds identified for science in the next 2020. Without a doubt, the government of the Republic of Serbia recognises science as a particularly important sector for social development and as the main driver of business activities. Hence, around 21 billion dinars have been allocated to the 2020 draft budget law for the science, technological development and innovation sector, which is 500 million more than in the current 2019. Most of these funds, i.e. two-thirds of the same or about 14.4 billion, are planned to finance research work through projects approved by the resolution ministry. It's also very important for our scientific and research community. This means continuity in the safe, stable and predictable financing of science and research. Prior to that, for science, technological development and innovation, an increase in the funds of the Innovation Action Fund is proposed by just over 15%, so that the budget of this Fund will be around 1.260.000.000.00 dinars in the coming year. The proposal is also to increase the Fund's funding for science by 100%, so that in the next 2020 we can count on double the funding of this year, more specifically the amount of a billion dinars. In addition, to support scientific workers' participation in international research projects, such as the EU's Horizon 2020 programme, grants amounting to around 2.4 billion dinars have been planned. All this unequivocally says that the intention of the government of the Republic of Serbia is to ensure a stable and secure funding of scientific research for next year, but also to provide additional funding for new projects and new researchers. I believe there will be a lot of young people among the new participants who, after completing their studies, will tie their professional careers to our universities, scientific institutions, research centres. I would remind you this time that the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development has already included 1,179 young researchers in ongoing scientific and research projects, and that there is a third call for another 100 young scientific workers. In addition, I think it is extremely important that the proposed budget also plans funds for further investment in the development of innovation infrastructure, such as funds for the completion of the Data Centre in Kragujevac, funds for the completion of scientific and technological parks in Nis and Novi Sad. In addition, the plan is to start with the 2020 budget with new projects and new activities, such as the project of building an educational and research centre in the White Church and the project of establishing and developing the Centre for the Popularisation of Science in Valjevo. With the safe financing of scientific and research work, I believe it is clear that the intention of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is to continue to invest in improving infrastructure in the next 2020, as well as to improve the material and technical equipment of our scientific institutions. It is also good that the proposed budget also plans bigger funds for the work of the centre, whose main task is to promote and popularise science. When all of this adds to the increase in the salaries of employees in science by 10% as a result of the positive results of our country's overall economy, it is clear that our scientific and research community has many reasons to be satisfied with the proposed 2020 budget. Due to all these arguments, as well as the arguments raised by my colleagues, as regards other sectors, the SPS parliamentary group supports the draft budget law for 2020, convinced that it is in the best interest of our society and citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64517	Thank you. On Article 3rd amendment, with correction, was filed by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64518	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'll remind you in the light of this story our most recent economic chances about so-called. "Little Schengen" or the Balkan Union or whatever it was called, we had a situation more than a year ago as a very scandalous one. So, the power of the so-called. Kosovo has introduced 100% fees on goods from central Serbia and BiH. Ministers in this government say the estimated loss is due to the so-called taxi regime. The international community, since there has been no reaction or pressure to lift such a thing, is around 400m euros. So 400m euros less than last year's income from that exchange and we're now pushing ourselves into that so-called. "Little Schengen", we are looking for our chance, we are saying that with a Serbian ID card we will be able to travel to Albania or Northern Macedonia, we will probably now go on a holiday in Albania and improve our trade relations with Northern Macedonia as a substitute for EU membership. Given that Serbia's policy is also the so-called government. Kosovo and in the region at all very masochistic, we will pass through the Balkan Union to legitimise already at the next meeting in Drac independent Kosovo by sitting with them at the same table, and they don't even accept the votes from central Serbia. Note that this must not be seen as a developmental opportunity, especially as a form of collective accession of future EU members of this thing called the Western Balkans. This is what is foreseen for us as a consolation prize, as there is no longer any perspective for EU enlargement at present, but exclusively for the formation of so-called. Balkan peripheries ahead of the EU, whose Serbia should be a member. We should not be proud of it, not to be satisfied, but to look at these facts and then find other economic alternatives, above all, in deepening co-operation with the Eurasian Union. The Serbian government has signed an agreement with the Euro-Asian Union that allows some, above all, agricultural goods to be exported, but that is not enough. Serbia for economic recovery and development would need, above all, full membership in the Euro-Asian Union and a faster focus on co-operation with some eastern states that today represent the most developed part of the world.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64519	Thank you, Comrade Seselj. According to the amendment, the People's MP Stanislav Janosevic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64520	Thank you, Chairman. Thank you for the opportunity to speak, since I have already applied on the basis of amendments to the national stadium. I can respect someone else's opinion, but I don't agree with that amendment at all. I'm constantly under the impression that some people are not at all in good relationships with their views. I will not bring you back in the distant past if I tell you that those who have led Serbia so far, i.e. those who are currently in the Alliance for Serbia, have destroyed everything in front of them, and this has allowed their colleagues to work on businesses in many cities, in the matter of the meat products industry, as well as on the production of medicines. I'll tell you how the Bek Company was destroyed in Zrenjanin, as well as in Jugomedia, but why is it one of them a very big success, why does it border on the amazing? Because everyone thought food and medicine was never enough and it was not realistic to destroy something that could survive. There, of course, were not thought by the people who worked in these companies that they would lose their jobs and that their businesses would be sold out. Please, they thought and came to that conclusion, that we shouldn't eat and that we shouldn't be treated, does that mean today we shouldn't be engaged in sports when it comes to national stadiums? Since I've been involved in sports events for many years, I've been active in sports, I'm not in this sphere today, but I like to follow everything that's going on, I like to know what these projects are, what they're doing and what they're planning, and I suggest that those who talk about it do, because then they would know that projects that will be implemented by 2021 mean six absolutely new football stadiums and reconstructions of three existing ones. A colleague, Dr. Borka Grubov, also said, and I don't know why she wasn't around, but I noticed a colleague making himself right, not talking about what wouldn't exist. So in Subotica, Loznica, Zaječar, Kraljev, Leskovac and Vranja there will be new football stadiums, and in three cities of Nis, Novi Sad and Kragujevac will be reconstructed, among other things, and in Zrenjanin it was made in the first phase because we have an athletic stadium. The children want to deal with the sport queen and of course other children will also play sports in those cities, use beside professionals. I am glad that the state of Serbia, as it is today, and as it develops, will get a national stadium, because it deserves it. What I suggest is that this status is deleted, no Article 3, but just before the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64521	Thank you, colleague Janošević. (Alexandar Martinovic: Replica to the exhibition of Alexander Seselj. ) Would you like a replica of Mr. Seselj's exposure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64522	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. I called a little late, or my colleague Stanislava Janosevic beat me to it. I wanted to report for the presentation of the esteemed colleague Seselj. I don't think he understands in the best way what the idea of that so-called. ‘Little Schengen’. First, the idea of the Balkan peoples' co-operation is an idea inherited by the largest Serbian statesmen since the time of Karadjordz, Knez Milos, Ilija Garasin, Knez Mihail, Milovan Milovanovic, Nikola Pasic, King Peter, King of Alexander. One of the reasons why King Alexander was killed was precisely his hearty campaign for politics for the Balkan Balkan peoples. We're renewing this idea today and we don't see anything wrong with it. ‘Little Shengen’, so-called ‘Little Shengen’, so-called ‘Little Shengen’. There is no substitute for Serbia's entry into the EU. We remain attached to the idea that Serbia is a place in the EU for many reasons, especially economic ones, but until Serbia enters the EU, it must live. We have to trade, we have to co-operate with countries and peoples who are in our environment and if we understand each other better, if we understood the problems facing our countries naked, if we had more understanding of our mutual relations, if we tried to solve our problems together, without needing foreign mediators and some kind of foreign mediation, it would be better objective for all of us. Both Serbs and Bosniaks and Albanians and northern Macedonians and all others. In that sense, I think that "little Schengen" is a good idea and if this idea is accepted as accepted and promoted by our president, Alexander Vukic, then it will be good for all Balkan peoples. We, therefore, are returning to old Serbian politics, to the Balkan Balkan peoples. It is a good policy, it is difficult, though, difficult to implement, because the great powers have their own interests in the Balkans, but if in the past we had implemented that policy to the Balkan Balkan peoples, it is certain that all of us who live here in these areas and who will live both us and our children, because there is nowhere to go, it is certain that many of the accidents that have happened to us in the past would have been avoided. After all, I end up, Mr Seselj, just to remind you, Serbia would not have succeeded in returning to its composition either Kosovo and Metohija, or Macedonia, or what was then called southern Serbia, if no military co-operation agreement between Serbia, or the Kingdom of Serbia, the Kingdom of Montenegro, Bulgaria and Greece had previously been concluded. So this isn't the first time we've concluded a deal with other Balkan states. Thanks to the agreement, the Serbian military managed to restore both Kosovo and Metohija and southern Serbia to its composition.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64523	Thank you. Right on line, MP Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64524	First of all, I don't know when did you find out about the "little Shengen" variant at all? Probably when the rest of Serbia, which came as thunder from the clear sky, not as some serious strategy or some long-standing idea, was announced only once by Aleksandar Vukic. Among other things, he said "little Schengen" is more important to Serbia than withdrawing Kosovo's recognition. So that's something we can't agree on. How is it possible that the "little Schengen" union between Northern Macedonia, Albania and Serbia can be more important than withdrawing Kosovo's recognition? So we may be able to comfort ourselves that it is not a replacement, a consolation prize, etc. Serbia's membership in the EU, but this is, above all, considered and explained in the West and thus understood by the president of Macedonia and the prime minister of Albania, and only here in Serbia are we pretending that this is actually something different. You're saying we should develop relations without foreign mediation. That's right, we should develop relations and connect without foreign mediation, but the Balkan Union and "little Schengen" because of foreign mediation in general was launched here as an idea, as a principle of integration and as something that should bring us closer to collective EU membership, that's what representatives of Serbia, Macedonia and Albania said. No one made that up. That's what they said at the press conference. Is that realistic to expect? It's not. Do we think of ourselves as leaders in the region by all possible economic parameters, as the center of stability and peace and, of course, economic success? And now it takes all of our good situations to also help Albania and Northern Macedonia who are much worse than we are, so they will develop within our union. What can we look for on the Albanian market? Where are we going to place our goods there? Well, we won't. Are we going on vacations there? We won't. What can we provide? We can secure their products here and that Albanians can enter with personal cards except for Kosovo and Metohija, as well as central Serbia. Is this something that was a pre-election promise, something that was seriously thought about, which was some serious strategy, so now we can expect some of the effects of all this? It's not. It's just, one day he showed up in public and then we, i.e. Representatives of the ruling majority or some government ministers raced who would praise it more and explain it more. We are now to comfort ourselves that because we have connected with the Balkan peoples, that because of this we have been freed in the Balkan wars, etc., it is not. Serbia would never have done anything in a geo-political sense in history if it hadn't been for Russia, as a protector. We cannot escape from it, nor can we deny it, nor can we compare the importance of it with the importance of co-operation with any other country. These are some historical facts. We should be grateful for that, not looking for such experiments as "little Schengen" examples in the past from another context, and then comparing ourselves and saying that it's actually a centuries-old or decades-old mission that's now being accomplished.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64525	Thank you, Comrade Seselj. Right on line, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64526	I thank you, Mr. Milicevic. I'm not, Mr. Seselj, a professional historian and I admit I don't know much about history, but I do know something. At that time, which we are talking about, therefore, before the Balkan wars, Russia was much more on the side of Bulgaria than on Serbia's side. In 1878, Russia concluded with Turkey the Sanstefhan Treaty, which envisioned the creation of a large Bulgaria and was then required by the princes of Milan, among other things, that Nis step forward to Bulgaria. Thanks to Russian support, therefore, to Russian support, of course, Serbia had nothing against it, but simply, it is a historical fact, Bulgaria was recognised as an independent state in 1908, and Prince Milan was asked by the Russians to give Nis to the Bulgarians, he said -- I won it from the Turks on the bayonets and I can hand it over to the Bulgarians on the bayonets. But it doesn't matter that much now. You say - Alexander Vukic's idea of "little Schengen" came to mind overnight. That's not true. I'll put you back in the past. In 2015, Aleksandar Vukic decided to go to Srebrenica. It was a difficult decision, which many did not understand, many do not understand it today, and he went to Srebrenica with words that were directed to both Serbs and Bosniaks, which is that we all try, as far as possible, to get into other people's shoes and when we get into other people's shoes, then we will be able to see better the problems that bother both us and them. As you know, he went to Srebrenica. There was an assassination attempt on him. So they tried to kill him, there's no doubt about it. What is a question in itself, which has been imposed so far since then, why has the official authorities of BiH not answered the question of who wanted to kill then the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, in Srebrenica? But since then, Alexander Vucic, from 2015 to today, has promoted the idea of co-operation with all Balkan nations, i.e. with all nations and countries in the Western Balkans region, and there is absolutely nothing wrong with that. It's a policy that means that we understand each other better. It is a policy that implies that we solve our problems and misunderstandings in peaceful ways, not wars. After all, it is a policy that implies that we solve together the problems that affect all of us, because the problems facing Serbia, the problems facing Albania, the problems facing Northern Macedonia, BiH, Croatia, it is not in this "little Schengen", but it has similar problems as Serbia, are more than the same problems. Albania has, you heard statistics the other day, it has a similar problem as Serbia, among other things, when it comes to demographics. There are many economic problems, there are many problems similar in both Serbia and Albania and Northern Macedonia. Let's try to solve these problems with agreement, conversation, without creating additional tensions and that both Serbs, Albanians and northern Macedonians are better off than they are now. To completely rule out the influence of the great forces on our policy, it's simply not possible. Serbia is too small a country to rule out the influence of both America and Russia and Germany and China or any other major country on what is happening in the Western Balkans region. (President: Thank you, colleague. I'm done. That's impossible. But, to be clear, that we have more hearing for each other, that we work more economically together, to facilitate the flow of people, goods, capital, services, ideas, so I think it is absolutely necessary for everyone and it is an idea that is in favour of all the peoples and all the countries in the Western Balkans region. Some people today won't admit it, but I think deep down they're aware that this policy has no real alternative.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64527	Thank you, colleague Martinovic. Right on line, MP Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64528	First of all, as far as I can see, Boris Tadic was on his way, if I'm not mistaken in 2007, and perhaps earlier, in Srebrenica, and then we can conclude that in 2015, only Vukic came to that idea and those plans that Boris Tadic had in 2007. He consciously went to participate in the necrophilic performance in Srebrenica, which accepts that fact and at all promotes the fact of the so-called genocide, accuses Serbia and the Serb people of being genocide, and the president of Serbia came to that place and, of course, did not expect it, but they wanted to, wanted to humiliate Serbia, to humiliate the Serbian people and Serbian president. It has absolutely nothing to do with our international connections here right now, and it can't justify the existence of a little Schengen through any economic parameters, because we already have this CEFTA agreement. What's different from the CEFTA agreement in general about "little Schengen" and the Balkan Union, except now they'll be able to travel with ID cards? Do you also think that anyone in Serbia feels that this is a need for citizens of Serbia who are now having difficulty going with travel documents, i.e. the passports in Albania, so now we're going to make it easier for them? What is the number of Serbia travelling to Albania, so now they will make it faster and less difficult to go to Albania with ID cards instead of passports? We already have the possibility to go to northern Macedonia without passports, also in BiH and Montenegro. It's just the news at Albania's. We are not so economically strong, whatever we think of ourselves, whatever reports or performances our ministers have, that we can help others so much that we can be the basis for others in the region. We need, above all, to seek a way for Serbia's economic recovery. We're not even today on that level that was before 1989, i.e. In 1989, not that we are so strong now that we can export economic successes, stability, peace and all other things. In this respect, Serbia should focus so that it can make economic progress, that Serbian citizens live better, and not give me through a reconciliation, integration or whatever, we are looking for our chances, which cannot compare with what we have been promised since 2000, which is EU membership. Of that, it's already clear there's nothing. We are weakly comforted to be associated with some other countries that will also never become members of the EU, such as Northern Macedonia and Albania. So this is meant for Serbia as a consolation prize, and we will be much better off if we are aware of these facts, not fooling ourselves and think that if we listen to someone, that is. We respond positively to some dictatorship from abroad, that we will later be willing to see how good, beautiful and smart we are, and then perhaps, in the perspective, we will continue our European integration again.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64529	Thank you. Right on line, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64530	I think you, my colleague, are overly simplisticing things. It's not the essence of that so-called. "Little Shenghen" journey with IDs anywhere. Before that, I have to tell you that there has been no performance in Srebrenica. In Srebrenica there was an attempt on Alexander Vukic's life as Prime Minister, where Aleksandar Vukic never said there was a genocide in Srebrenica, he said a crime took place and he went to bow down to the shadows of those who died in Srebrenica. Some in Serbia did not understand it, some do not understand it today, but it was an attempt by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia to establish better relations between Serbia and BiH, or between Serbs and Bosniaks. He did it, among other things, because of Bosniaks living in Serbia, and he did it because of Serbs living in the Federation of BiH, and he did it because of Republika Srpska. Unlike Boris Tadic, he did not apologize to anyone, and more than once, Aleksandar Vukic said he had no intention of apologizing to anyone, because only this apology in a political sense means nothing unless you change politics. So Alexander Vukic doesn't lead the policy of apology. Aleksandar Vukic leads a policy of establishing better relations with countries in the region. You have reduced the idea of "little Shengen" to ID cards. The idea of "little Schengen" is much wider than that. It implies, above all, much easier, much simpler economic co-operation between states that are in this kind of alliance. One more thing to tell you, which you lost sight of, Alexander Vukic told Johannes Han in 2017 that it was his idea to establish a customs union in the Western Balkans region, which would include other countries that are not now covered by "little Schengen". I'm telling you all this because you understand that this is not the idea of yesterday, that it's not something that fell from the sky, that it's a return to traditional Serbian politics, to the politics of the best Serbian statesmen in the 19th and early 20th centuries, and there's absolutely nothing wrong with that. So, you're an SRS official, so for what it stands for today, Aleksandar Vucic, and for that were the least heads in the then Radical Party -- Milovan Milovanovic, Nikola Pasic and Stojan Protic. So these are the ideas that the Balkan peoples co-operate with each other, that the Balkan states have more understanding for each other, because all of us, again, mention it, some today want to admit, some won't, have many negative experiences when foreigners interfered in solving our mutual problems. It's better that the problems we have are solved by sitting down at a table and talking, than someone offers us so-called good services, so the state falls apart, so civil war breaks out, so hundreds of thousands of people leave their centuries-old hearths on both sides and on both sides, etc. So this is an idea that is much more than just a mere fact that you will be able to travel to Albania and Northern Macedonia without any ID. It's an idea of peace. It's the idea of economic co-operation. It is the idea of economic progress throughout the Western Balkans. After all, it is an idea that implies a mutual solution to all our problems that are less common, because everything that bothers Serbia is less tormented and northern Macedonia, less tormented by Macedonia as well. It also tortures Montenegro, tortures Bosnia and Herzegovina, tortures Croatia. They won't admit it for now. We admit it, but what we admit is just saying that we want to solve these problems, not push them under the carpet.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64531	Thank you. The People's MP, Alexander Seselj, has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64532	The necrophilic performance in Srebrenica is being held every July, each year, and just one year in that, unfortunately, the president of Serbia also took part. So he went there consciously knowing which lie there was being lied about, what was being promoted and affirmed there, and then humiliated him. That's why they called him. Today Serbia is a market of six million people. How many residents do Northern Macedonia and Albania have? They don't have a total of four or four. What can we get from that market? What is what now promotes economic co-operation between our countries, and is not foreseen by the CEFTA agreement, except for the possibility that so-called. Kosovo presented through CEFTA as Kosovo with footnote i.e. with a star, which speaks of how, presented after Resolution 1244, among other things, only the possibility of Kosovo being represented as an independent state, as a republic of Kosovo, can now be opened. It's a real danger for it to happen through this Balkan Union or "little Schengen". We need to solve our problems without the intervention of strangers, that's right. We have to solve everything without strangers. Are we capable of that? Is this government capable of that? It's not. We showed everyone that we are unable to solve our problems in Serbia without the intervention of foreigners between political parties, not in the region to solve them. This is where we pointed to injuries, i.e. to the violation of the Rules of Procedure and the functioning of the National Assembly for three years, and nothing has changed until the recommendations of the European Commission and the National Convention for Co-operation with the European Union have arrived. Here in Serbia, instead of dialogue, instead of the work of the National Assembly College, dialogue between all parliamentary parties, the government in Serbia has accepted that mediators be in this so-called "mediators". dialogue representatives of the NGO of the Open Society Fund, controlled by George Soros. What can we do in the region, focus on co-operation without the intervention of foreigners, when we here have dialogue in Serbia on electoral conditions and the election process under the auspices of George Soros and his NGO? Don't kid yourself. We need to cooperate economically, we need to deepen that co-operation. It's all right, but we need to be focused on protecting Serbian national interests, not putting our interests aside to help some of us, because that is, for God's sake, our eternal dream of connecting the people of the Balkans. In the time you're talking about some nations, they didn't even exist. 100 years ago, these nations did not exist at the time of Milovan Milovanovic, Nikola Pasic, etc. Don't look for any parallels where they're not there. Don't be comforted that when we hear from someone that what we've done is commendable. That doesn't mean it's like that. We need to be focused on empowering our economy. Will we do so through co-operation with Albania and Northern Macedonia? We won't. Should we be in conflict with these states? No, but it can't be our foreign policy or foreign trade priority.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64533	Thank you. The People's MP Aleksandar Martinovic has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64534	First, Alexander Vukic is absolutely not humiliated in Srebrenica. Alexander Vukic acted so dignifiedly and so bravely that those who tried to kill him probably wanted to break out of torment, because on the run, you, Mr. Seselj, surely remember, the scattered mob, who wanted to kill him, Alexander Vukic did not lower his head for one single second. By going to Srebrenica he did not say that there was genocide there, but he went there as a statesman and a man who is aware, as we are all aware, that there is no long-term stability in this region unless there is a greater degree of understanding between Serbs and Bosniaks, among other things, because in the war between 1992 and 1995 we both died, as Bosniaks died by the Serb hand, so Serbs were killed by the Bosniak hand. To never do that again, Aleksandar Vukic went to Srebrenica to show that there was both political will and political courage, but what is more important, political visions that never happened to us between 1941 and 1945 and that never happened between 1992 and 1995. You're saying there's no need for us to cooperate economically with the states that are in that so-called. "Little Schengen" and you mention Kosovo with a star. What I want to tell you, the CEFTA agreement was signed at a time when Albanians in Kosovo and Metohija did not declare independence and Kosovo had no need to introduce itself to a star. The CEFTA agreement was signed by Kosovo and Metohija being marked by UNMIK Kosovo's syntax and it was, at the time, one victory, perhaps small, but still the victory of the Republic of Serbia, which Kosovo and Metohija were included in the CEFTA agreement, but not as an independent state, but as a territory controlled by the UN mission under Resolution 1244. That's one thing I wanted to tell you. Another thing, you say -- there is no need to co-operate with Albania, who will travel to Albania, what we have to look for in Albania, etc. Ask people down from southern Serbia from Leskovac, you know who their main competitors are, among other things, in the sale of cucumbers, Albanians and Albanians from Albania. The cucumber from Albania is cheaper than the cucumber produced by our man from Leskovec, Nis, Vranja, etc. What do we do with that? That's one life problem. This has nothing to do with either high policy or whether anyone recognises Kosovo and Metohija's independence or not. Today, Albanians from Albania come to Serbia and sell us their cucumbers at cheaper prices than the price at which cucumbers are sold by hosts from Leskovec and other southern Serbian places. What are we gonna do with that problem? You may not see it as a problem, but people living in southern Serbia and how they experience it. So, there are many such problems that Serbia has objectively, which we can solve by co-operation... Milorad Mircic throws. ) Well said Mircic - for pickles. You can bring down any story to absurdity. Great, that's great. You have no responsibility for running this country. You can laugh here and say "little Schengen" because of pickles. It's your right. I understand you, you are the opposition, it is legitimate to laugh at what the authorities are doing, but I am telling you and that is the SNS attitude, the idea of "little Shengena" is the idea of life, the idea of life for the citizens of Serbia, for the citizens of Northern Macedonia, for the citizens of Albania. To solve all the problems that we have all of a sudden and overnight it is not possible, but to solve them by problem and as far as possible, we just need to have a good political will, to understand each other a little better and to facilitate the flow of goods, people, ideas, capital between the countries that are involved in this agreement.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64535	I thank my colleague Martinovic. Right on line, MP Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64536	Replica. First of all, at the conference, it seems to me, on Ohrid, Alexander Vukic is talking about the placement of Albanian products, i.e. Albanian agricultural products. He didn't say anything about Serbian agriculture and our placement. I guess his main occupation should be, if he has meetings with some other officials, if he has any co-operation, to take care of where Serbian goods are to be placed, not to think about Albanian. We have been able to listen for the past seven years to promise that we will have a chip factory and Mercedes and that we will produce parts for "Boing" and that we will have both this and that and everything else, of course when we get that date to become members of the EU, so "Mitros" from Sremska Mitrovica when it is sold, i.e. when there was going to be a big "Tenis" German producer, so 500,000 pigs, etc. There was nothing of it all, and now this is a new episode in all of it, the Balkan Union "small Schengen" and now we're looking for our development opportunity and it's attacking anything if it's being criticised. It's just sober thinking. We can't move forward and we can't rely on co-operation with these states. There is no "little Schengen", no Balkan Union physically without AP KiM territory where Serbia has no power today. It is under international protection today, and without their representation, there is no Balkan Union. How's that gonna be? Will this be in accordance with Resolution 1244 presented or presented as an independent state? What do you think? So it will be presented as an independent state of course because all these countries, both Macedonia and Albania, have recognised Kosovo's independence. Then what do we have that right to vote on? The wolf never said – genocide in Srebrenica. Okay, he didn't say it, but the government of which the President was Alexander Vucic, and even today the SNS Government defines huge money every year through funding, through projects, through competitions issued by the Office for Human and Minority Rights for NGOs dealing with the promotion and protection of human and minority rights, this year provides for 300 million dinars, projects of Women in Black, Helsinki Committees, the Open Society Fund, the Humanitarian Law Fund, the House of Human Rights and Civil Initiatives. These are all anti-Serbian NGOs that have the task, of course they are much more funded from abroad than from Serbia's budget, to promote here, to do everything to create awareness here and to accept as a fact that genocide has been carried out in Srebrenica, that this genocide is blamed for the Serb people in general, not only Serbs who have fought there, but the Serb people are genocide people, that is their agenda, they are working on fulfilling it, and we are paying it in an indirect manner through the Office for Human and Minority Rights. So if the SNS really recognizes this lie about Srebrenica as a problem, then it should work to make such lies and nonsense and humiliations, such as those performances that we had repeatedly in the Republic Square, last time around Vukovar, but more than once around Srebrenica, are not financed from Serbia's budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64537	Thank you, Mr. Seselj. The People's MP Aleksandar Martinovic has the right to reply. I suppose there'll be a replica after that, and I'm just asking you, since the secretary is signaling to me so that we don't take the time off from the parliamentary group, that the replicas last up to two minutes. Here's a colleague of Martinovic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64538	Thank you. Mr. Sinisa Mali, I think, tried to explain to colleagues what is meant by the funding of NGOs and what are the NGOs that the Republic of Serbia is funding from the budget. I don't think that's working, Mr. Mali. Mr. Seselj still doesn't understand. You say the problem with "Little Schengen" which is not included in KIM, so now there is a danger that Kosovo suddenly appears as an independent state as a participating country in "little Schengen". It is included, already included as an integral part of the Republic of Serbia. What do you think Alexander Vukic came up with the idea of "little Schengen" with the idea that KIM is an independent state? Of course not. So KIM is already involved in "small Schengen" by the very fact that it is an integral part of the Republic of Serbia and there is no problem with that, and don't be afraid of it because the Republic of Serbia has entered the "small Schengen" as a comprehensive country with the AP KIM. What is also important to say -- the idea of "little Schengen" means creating a bigger market than any single market in Serbia, Albania and Northern Macedonia. So one of the ideas of "little Schengen" is the creation of a large market. In this large market, bigger than it is now, they can find their prosperity easier and producers from Serbia and producers from northern Macedonia and producers from Albania. In some situations, we will buy something from Albanians, but in some cases, Albanians will buy something from us Serbs. It's up to us whether we have a surplus in foreign trade or not. If we have a deficit, it's our fault. There is no need for us to blame Albanians or the northern Macedonians. It is a matter of government policy whether Serbia will be the leader in this "little Schengen" and whether we will benefit the most from the "little Schengen". (President: Thank you, colleague.) ) But that doesn't mean that "little Schengen" should be written in advance as some idea that is pointless because now that you look at the map of the Western Balkans, when you look at the map of the countries that are covered by the so-called team. "Little Shengen," what do you see? You see three relatively small countries and you see three relatively small markets. The idea is to increase the market. (President: I thank my colleague Martinovic. ) The idea is to make more money for our citizens because we will operate on a market that is bigger than the only market in the Republic of Serbia. In this is the idea of "little Schengen", to make Serbia better, to make Serbian citizens better, to end up making more money in the Republic of Serbia's budget, so when there's more money in the budget there'll be more money for everything you and we stand for – and more roads and more schools and more hospitals and more salaries and more jobs, etc. It's all connected to each other.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64539	Thank you. Right on line, MP Alexander Seselj. Here's your colleague, Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64540	You should explain this to the president of Macedonia and the prime minister of Albania about Kosovo. So through "little Schengen" it certainly won't change their opinion and their recognition of Kosovo's independence. Do you think it will represent Kosovo and Metohija through "little Schengen" Marko Djuric or Aljbin Kurti? I think Albin Kurti, and then we can talk about them, explain when we get back here that they have actually recognised Serbia's territorial integrity. So it is a major danger for Serbia, that instead of as an international protectorate within the framework of CEFTA, Kosovo is now promoted as an independent state, since only Serbia has not recognised Kosovo's independence. As for funding NGOs, the overall budget, i.e. The total money to be allocated to NGOs is slightly more than nine billion dinars, but the Office for Human and Minority Rights 300 million dinars exclusively for those organisations that rightly promote Kosovo's independence in Serbia. These are organisations that held the Mirdita Festival several times in Belgrade, the promotion of Kosovo culture in the middle of Belgrade, and even the promotion of Kosovo culture at the Mirdita festival were attended by some SNS city councils, a former Tasovac culture minister, for example. He was at "Mirdity". The NGOs, except for promoting this lie in Serbia about alleged massive crime, mass rape, extermination, ethnic cleansing, committed by members of the Serbian military and police in the territory of the AP of Kosovo and Metohija. Their main topics are also Srebrenica and everything else that is intended for our people to fully assess. So that's paid, that's 300 million dinars of the total budget of nine billion dinars, which is foreseen for NGOs, for those discussed by Mr. Minister. So neither the Red Cross nor the Serbian Orthodox Church nor the Serbian Mother will receive money from the Office for Human and Minority Rights, but will receive Natasa Kandic, Sonja Biserko, "women in Black" and all others.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64541	I thank my colleague Seselj. Right on line, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64542	I don't know what's bothering you so much about the concept of Kosovo culture. When someone says Kosovo culture, I primarily mean Serbian culture, Serbian, cultural and spiritual heritage in Kosovo and Metohija. For me, when I say Kosovo culture, it's the High Decians, it's the Mother of the Left, it's the Holy Archangel at Prizren, that's all we have as a people in Kosovo and Metohija. So I don't see anything wrong with that. Kosovo culture is primarily Serbian culture and everything that is, or most of what is found in the cultural treasure in Kosovo and Metohija, is the cultural treasure of the Serbian people. Do you really believe, Mr. Seselj, that Alexander Vucic, who prevented the entry of so-called. Kosovo to UNESCO, Interpol, thanks to which more than 10 countries have withdrawn over the past two years. (Alexander Seselj: Sixteen. Here's 16, withdrawing confession. (Veritre Radeta: Seventeen.) Here I am being corrected by Verse 17, thank you. So 17 states are thanks to politics above all. You're not following. I've said more than 10, I haven't made much of a mistake. So thanks to Alexander Vukic's politics, 17 countries withdrew recognition of the so-called The Republic of Kosovo and you are now saying - despite all the fact that, thanks to Alexander Vukic's policies, the state is withdrawing recognition of Kosovo's independence and Metohija, which thanks to the politics of Aleksandr Vukic Kosovo is not in Interpol, it is not in UNESCO, etc., will now enable Aleksandar Vukic to allow Kosovo and Metohija as an independent state to be an integral part of the "little Schengen". Well, that idea is funny to you. No one can seriously believe that. "Little Schengen" is not designed for anyone to promote the so-called "Little Schengen". Kosovo's independence, "little Schengen" has been made and this is the idea of Alexander Vukic, that Serbia with Kosovo and Metohija, Northern Macedonia and Albania be a common market and that through this common market, the flow of people, goods, capital and services is facilitated, and Serbia as the biggest of the three countries should have the highest benefit from that agreement. If we lead the policy that Alexander Vucic has led so far, we will definitely, no matter how funny it may seem to you now, be the leader, not just "little Shengen", but the leader of the Western Balkans, and the wider part of Europe when it comes to economic development. Without economic development, there is no military development, no development of education, no development of health care, all those topics that are vital to the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64543	I thank my colleague Martinovic. Right on line, MP Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64544	If you can convince Mr Martinovic of Serbia's integrity that Kosovo is part of Serbia, the president of Northern Macedonia and the prime minister of Albania, we automatically support "little Schengen". If they withdraw recognition of Kosovo, we immediately support "little Schengen". So much for that subject. Yes, Kosovo has failed to become a member of Interpol, it has failed to become a member of UNESCO, it is the merit of this government, it is. We may have had little help from our traditional allies in the Security Council, above all from the Russian Federation, but neither is Serbian diplomacy there without success. I will remind you that this is a policy that we support regarding the withdrawal of recognition and this is for the praise of Serbian diplomacy, but nothing will mean a withdrawal of recognition to us, it will mean nothing to us that we have prevented Kosovo from becoming a member of Interpol and UNESCO, Serbia if it continues and sign so on. A legally binding agreement with Kosovo, which is due to open the door to membership in the UN, Kosovo will automatically become a member without any vote both UNESCO and Interpol and will be deemed to have recognised any state's independence. These are the facts and that is the contradiction of our foreign policy. So we need to be committed to preserving our territorial integrity, and this is not the way to do it. We should fight for the market, whether we will succeed on a market of less than four million people, or rather focus on the market of 200 million people, as many as the Eurasian Union has. I think it's better 200 and something. First of all, we will not function there as we do here with foreign interference, but we will function and cooperate without political conditions... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64545	Thank you. The replica lasts two minutes after the Rules of Procedure. You spoke for two minutes and 11 seconds. Thank you. He has a word for the amendment, Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64546	Thank you, President. By amendment, I waited patiently. I just want to comment on what my esteemed colleague Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic was talking about. It refers to "small Schengen" and that both I and the SDPS parliamentary group want to express support for "small Schengen" as a kind of economic primarily, integration and what is essential for our country and for our citizens, integration that is important for larger exports, for better exports and for new jobs in our country. I cannot agree with such a thesis that "little Schengen" is not needed because we with these 130 million dollars, as far as we now export goods and services to Albania, with the expansion of the possibility of free flow of human and capital goods, will have room to export for both 500 and 700 million, perhaps for a billion dollars over the next few years. I can't understand that someone in the 21st century can have something against that kind of integration. Mr. Martinovic reminded him, and I should have joined him there, at the golden time of the Serbian economy, between 1935 and 1938, and my distinguished colleague Seselj should know very well when we had a growth of as much as 16% in one year. At the time, the president of the then Yugoslav Radical Community and the Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia was inclined to do so and led the policy that President Aleksandar Vukic is now leading today and has been developing relations with both the countries of Male Antante and with the countries that President Vukic has gathered to this so-called. The Orthodox quadrant, therefore, refers to Bulgaria, Greece and Romania, so countries that today have no dispute with Serbia, with which we have a very, very good opportunity to co-operate economically and politically. I will also remind you that there was excellent co-operation with Turkey at the time, but also that there was great dependence on Germany and Italy, and the United Kingdom, and that in fact the lowest level of relations was with the then Soviet Union, so it's not quite true and it's not good for our country to point out that we need to cooperate and that we need to rely fully on one country. No, we're about to do what President Vukic does, to have good relations with the Russian Federation, with the People's Republic of China. Of course, our country's strategic goal is full membership in the EU, but also a strategic partnership with the United States. Nothing good will do us any good if we rely on only one country, however politically and economically powerful it is. As I advocate, and not to be completely dependent on energy from one country, as we are now and we will try and follow that policy to diversify our energy policy and that we do not have only one source of supply, especially with gas, because if we are 100% dependent only on gas supplies from one country, that means we will not be able to develop our own economy in full capacity, nor our geopolitical position. As far as CEFTA was concerned, CEFTA was also the remaining dam and preserved the territorial integrity and sovereignty of our country because, as Mr Martinovic said nicely, the territory of Kosovo and Metohija was represented so that it was represented by UNMIK in accordance with Resolution 1244. Kosovo Albanians suspended CEFTA, its unilateral unilateral move and the introduction of 100% of taxis on goods and services from central Serbia, thus making it difficult for us not only for our country, but for our businesses, but for their peace, they have threatened stability throughout the region, and today the entire international community sees it. Serbia is fighting it, but Serbia is not fighting what we will go and complain about. Russia will not help us, neither will America, neither will the EU, but we need to find our own way, and we need to find markets where we will sell 500 million dollars of goods and services, which we sold annually on the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, to diversify, to sell in Albania, to add, to sell in northern Macedonia, to sell in Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's what this is about. It's about jobs. It's about living people. Martinovic mentioned and perhaps it is funny to someone, pickles, tomatoes, so yes, it is a life that lives normal citizens of Serbia, who live from their work, who are engaged in agriculture, who are engaged in both primary agricultural production and processing industry and what is essential that we conduct and cooperate with anyone who is capable and who is willing to buy Serbian goods and services, and I absolutely see nothing wrong in it. Also, when it comes to long-term stability and our desire to co-operate with countries in the region, to remind you of the same time in the 1930s, Milan Stojadinovic also tried. You know for a fact that he won the parliamentary term in Montenegro, that there was his electoral unit there, that even in the 1935 elections he won about 20% of the Croatian votes, means that through this economic policy and economic offer he could animate a number of people and those peoples who were majority, as we all know against that Yugoslavia and Serbia and against Serbian interests. Not to mention how much he suffered only within the framework of the internal policy, not to mention the concordative crisis when the maltenes were excommunicated even from the SPC because he wanted good to this country, because he wanted good and good relations with both the Vatican and everyone in Europe, even with Germany and Italy. Why? To protect this country, to protect its interest. Such a policy is being conducted today, a policy of growth of 4.7%, a policy of new investment, a policy of quite, in fact, a new doctrine of managing a serious state, where citizens are at the centre of attention, where our interest is at the centre of attention and where the protection of national interests and our people is not only in central Serbia, but it is not a good policy and it is not a strategy for us to protect our brothers in Republika Srpska by providing declarative support, either in Macedonia or in the Republic of Croatia. No, Serbia today has investments in Republika Srpska. Serbia today holds joint cabinet sessions with the Republika Srpska government and no one is ashamed to say and do so. At every national event or marking a holiday or an important date, we have our friends, our brothers from Montenegro, we have Stojiljkovic from Macedonia, the Serbs from Romania representing our people there, the Pupovac from Croatia. So it's about a whole new policy of respecting our interests, its protection. But in order to protect the full capacity of these interests, we need to be economically strong, economically strong and we need to enter economic integration. If you think we can sell our goods and services and rely on Kyrgyzstan, Kazakhstan or any other friendly country, I don't argue at all, it's not real, it's far, it's expensive. What we can sell best, fastest and where we can be most competitive is this territory of "little Schengen" and our insistence, or Vucic's insistence on establishing a free flow of goods, people and capital only because it is in Serbia's interest, because it is in the interest of our people, our citizens and we here in parliament are going to support it earnestly. So, I'm going to end up saying that this economic policy and economic integration is, in fact, the most healing for long-term stability. Just look at the example of the Nordic countries. Look at the situation in Korea. And even this South Korea and North Korea have there at 33 parallels in a place called Kesong, they have a common industrial zone where four thousand people from North Korea who have never stopped working, regardless of the intensity of the conflict, regardless of the lack of understanding, regardless of two completely different and double systems, the economy is something, and the job and pay, which has combined and which I hope will bring together that people who are the same. We have a very different problem here, but we can't have a different recipe. Only through economic co-operation, and I have to underline the decisive work and work of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, which has participated in a great deal and supported President Vukic and the government itself to make it possible for economic co-operation to be better and that Serbia should thus be imposed as the economic and political leader of this region. I think we should all agree on that and, of course, talk here in parliament, but perhaps at some other forums, about how to strengthen our economy and how to attract as many foreign investors as possible. Welcome, everyone from the Russian Federation, China, Korea, Arab countries, Iran, Israel. Everyone here is welcome and that is what quality is exactly Vucic's policy, that he managed to make Belgrade and Serbia an economic centre, where everyone likes to come, likes to invest. I think that in that area, and how to progress and be stronger, stronger and better able to protect our national and all other interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64547	The word is Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64548	I thank you, President. As for the declaration signed by Aleksandar Vukic, Zoran Zaev and Edi Rama, we are socialists, although this declaration is called a small Shengen, we believe that this is an introduction to a much wider story, that is, a declaration that will be regional character and we hope it will be a future Balkan Schengen. Why do socialists think this way? It is only because Serbia is a small Schengen that strengthens the Balkan leaderial position, because Serbia is the headquarters, and I hope that it will remain the headquarters of the economic, economic and other unification of countries in the Balkans, even the customs union that we have just commented on. It's a good thing Serbia is imposing this idea right now. It is good that Serbia is precisely seeking economic unification, it is good that Serbia is just one kind of barrier to every other alternative of little Schengen that would lead us to disaster in any case, not to say in an apocalypse of broader proportions, which is war destruction, that is all that once, not so long ago, the Serbian people and citizens of Serbia have passed through losing lives, losing material goods, losing everything that makes the source of existence. That's what Serbia will never allow again. That's why I don't think the banalization of little Shengen is good. We can face each other and be critical of whether little Shengen should continue to affirm or not. We stand firm in the position that little Shenten and what it means to preserve peace means everything that means to reduce tensions, everything that involves suppressing wartime rhetoric and I am convinced that we will soon have the opportunity to affirm this idea of economic and economic unification to other countries of Balkan territory. I particularly think of those with whom we obviously have rather politically tight relations, such as Croatia, such as in a partial sense of the words and the Federation of BiH, etc. Our goal of preserving Kosovo will in no way be to degrade little Schengen, on the contrary, we will continue to have the same attitude, the same course, the same policy. That policy has already yielded results. It's true my colleagues pointed to the right number. Seventeen countries, so 17 countries withdrew recognition to Kosovo, thanks to the diplomacy conducted in the most efficient way by Ivica Dacic, as foreign minister, and in strong co-operation and of course communication and support from the president of the state of Aleksandr Vukic. I am convinced that this diplomatic activity will be even more successful. I am convinced that this number of 17 countries that have withdrawn recognition of Kosovo will not remain in that number, that this number will be far greater and that Serbia will achieve its goal, which is to preserve sovereignty and territorial integrity, which Serbia has always managed to do in history, to vote for its people, this time for its people in Kosovo. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64549	The word is Zarko Bogatinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64550	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister with the Co-operation, we have before us the Budget Law, a law that we are discussing in a significantly different atmosphere than it was in previous years. Why do I say that? This year, we have a situation that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, supported by the majority of SNS and its coalition partners, can finally commit itself to the key objective of its operation, which is raising the standard of life of its citizens. The huge effort that has been made over the past seven years has led to a greater number of objectives, and thus the goals achieved create a new budget for us. The problems that have existed in this country for decades have been solved one by one, systematically, precisely and professionally. The course is stable and has never been more stable in history. Foreign exchange reserves are at the historic highest level, and the banking system is stable and liquid with historic lowest interest rates in Serbia. We were winning where no one expected, or after attracting foreign investment, we became a real little wonder of the world. The growth of the economy is stable and will shift 4% in next year. Exports are on a steady rise, and Serbia is constantly winning new markets and gaining new partners. There is another quality in this draft budget that we haven't had a chance to see before, and that is that both the profession and the public and the promoters agree in the estimates that this budget is balanced, that it is stable, and that it has its development component. Information works, the budget of the town of Leskovec for 2019 was projected at 4.4 billion dinars. The budget deficit is planned at 135 million dinars, i.e. About 3.4%. An analysis of the indicators of increasing revenue performance suggests that we are recording increasing income from income tax from year to year, which is a direct indicator of our efforts to increase investment, i.e. an increase in the number of employees. A few years in a row, we're making better payments to export revenues. This has been achieved by introducing new taxpayers into records, as well as better collection of old claims. We have activated the resources of the town of Leskovec, by putting land into operation by increasing income and creating a favourable business environment. We regularly settle all obligations towards employees, obligations to suppliers, as well as orderly service obligations on exceptional loans. The 2020 budget will be higher by 7.6% compared to 2019, as it is not only a legal obligation that the budget must be planned and that it monitors planned GDP growth, but also our commitment to continuing positive movements towards achieving the best possible results in work. Finally, in 2020, we plan to increase the allocation for agriculture, health, education, as well as for infrastructure projects. A significant place of occupation and a field of sport, as well as support for various cultural events in our city. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64551	Thank you. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 4th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64552	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 4. A bill on the budget of the Republic of Serbia, where I asked to delete this member. I asked this member for the reason I believe that no funds should be provided in the Republic of Serbia's budget to finance the participation of the Republic of Serbia in European Union projects, i.e. the means allegedly for those who are to be approved by the European Union. It is clear to all of us that the European Union does not give anything free of charge, in particular it gives nothing to Serbia, does not give these newly admitted members of the European Union, such as Bulgaria, Romania, Hungary, Croatia, etc. As far as the Republic of Serbia itself is concerned, we have only suffered damage from the main members, not all, of course, but the main members of the European Union, because we know that their armies through NATO have bombed our country. That is why I do not want to say that we must absolutely turn away from the countries of the European Union, but here today we have heard a good news from Minister Mali, and it is a signed agreement with a company from the Republic of China on the construction of an industrial or technological park, as it is already called, here in Belgrade, in Borce territory, in the part where this bridge "Michajlo Pupin" is located. So there's an alternative and there's definitely a need to direct both resources and co-operation to the side where your friends, where the countries you can talk to, let's say, on a friendly, on an even basis. Today, it is a real privilege to have such a friend as the Republic of China, and Serbia is certainly one of the leading friends of the Republic of China, especially when it comes to the Balkans and the whole of Europe. That's why I think more energy and attention and all other things should be directed to this side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64553	The word is Jelena Žarić Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64554	Thank you, President. I would just like to say briefly that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives has assessed that this amendment does not comply with the Budgetary System Act, with Article 28. The Budgetary System Act, which refers to the preparation of budgets and financial plans, in the sense that the budget should look, i.e. it consists of general work, special work, reasoning, etc. I'm not going to read it. The general part of the budget must also cover the assessment of the necessary financial resources to finance Serbia's budget in implementing EU financial assistance. What we've heard now from reason, I think a sentence -- the European Union doesn't give anything free is no argument. That is why I remain in the process of not accepting this amendment and I do not think it is a good idea to propose that we abolish the possibility of competing for projects that will only bring benefits to citizens, just because it is about the European Union. In doing so, our budget can now bear that participation, let's say, when it comes to projects. So for these reasons, I suggest that the amendment not be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64555	Thank you. A Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by Parliament to Ruzica Nikolic. Does Mrs. Rose Nikolic want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64556	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, after Article 1, Article 4. The draft budget law, which concerns funding for co-financing and pre-financing of projects under EU pre-accession assistance instruments in 2020, asked for the addition of a new position, which is fully in line with the programme and with the SRS' position on the EU. We believe that accepting EU funds has a negative impact on the country's overall development, and in line with this, we have formulated this new position. The Serbian Radical Party strongly opposes Serbia's eventual accession to the EU and Serbia is not a place there, in which the EU does not recognise the sovereignty and territorial integrity of our country, and which, in negotiations as the main condition for membership, is the recognition of a false state of Kosovo. For us, Serbian Radicals, inadmissible humiliation by the EU, which in every way is trying, blackmailing and forcing the Republic of Serbia to recognise independence, so-called. The Republic of Kosovo, in order to become its member, and therefore we believe that any co-operation with the EU that denies the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia can only have negative consequences for our country's development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64557	Thank you. I'm asking the technical service to allow us to monitor the time, since we don't have anything on the screen, I don't know how to interrupt the speakers, if there's some technical service in the O.R. or out of the O.R., and he can hear us. Three-minute break, until we find someone from the technical service. [[After a break.]] The word is Olivera Pesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64559	Thank you, President. Honorable ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, one of the main strategic objectives of the Republic of Serbia is to join the European Union. The government of the Republic of Serbia has huge support in the people for the implementation of this goal. The European Union is our biggest partner in the provision of development aid and I will show that it is only through two examples, in the case of the town of Leskovec. The EU funded 10 million dinars to build a wastewater treatment plant in Leskovac. It's a donation. Then, the Dutch government, through a donation of eightm euros, to build a 88km sewage network for 16 settlements. We are aware of the importance of these environmental protection projects and, as I said, for the sake of time, this is just on the case of one city for two important projects. I believe that this sentence - accepting EU funds has negative consequences for the country's comprehensive development, cannot possibly stand as an integral part of the budget in Article 4. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64560	Thank you. The 5th Amendment was submitted by a Member of the People of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64561	When we Serbian radicals came out with the idea that the lowest profit and the lowest pension should not be below 37,000 dinars, because that is the amount of the lowest consumer basket, you asked us, among other things, - and where did that money come from? And before I tell you one possibility, I want to ask Minister Malloy - what about raising pensions in 2019? When we told you it wasn't going to happen because the law didn't foresee the possibility of harmonising pensions, you were then telling us that the government, that this would grow, that the government would take care of it, and there would be a sure increase. So there was no increase and what you're planning next year, especially in relation to what I said, it's about your budget being pre-election. But where do you say you can get the money for the lowest pensions and the profit of 37,000 dinars? Well, here, for example, 22 billion dinars, that's 200m euros, envisioned in the budget due to lost international disputes, in the name of punishment, in the name of a penalty, in the name of a venison, in the name of unhappiness, corruption, ignorance. That's how you define this item. Because it's really amazing that, regardless, you have reason to believe that part of these costs are related to once-on-a-lifetime contracts that ended up in arbitration, all of that is true, but who are you, who has submitted some responsibility for it? Who did you ask to collect from his property what caused damage to the state? You want some law establishing the origin of the property, and you don't want to do what you already can under the existing laws. We're throwing 200m euros just because the D.A., the state, the Republic, is not doing its job. There are only two reasons why this job doesn't work - either they're inextricable, which is terrible, or they're corrupt, which is equally or even scarier. These international contracts are purposely concluded such that it is impossible to be fulfilled and then instead of that lawyer, that these experts who take care of it say – people, this contract is bad, it is harmful, but we are not able to win this dispute at the arbitration of someone else. We'd better not go into disputes, at least save the state interest, foam, etc. No, you're not going anywhere. You're going to go somewhere else. You're going to go somewhere else. You're going somewhere to represent the state's cost, and it's going to cost 200 million euros. Similarly, in your domestic justice system, the situation is similar when it comes to working disputes and when it comes to mobilising disputes and when it comes to disputes that take too long, and when it comes to disputes of the type, I don't know, taking away property before the lawfulness of the verdict, as you did to Darko Saric. All this ends up being paid out of the Republic of Serbia's budget. That's what citizens need to know, and what you're saying, that you've been boasting for two, three days, everyone on the same bench, let it go. You're talking about something you can see, you're talking about – we built a highway. Well, they all see the highway, but, come on, how did you let 200 million euros from the budget disappear untraceable, to spend on behalf of what you don't know you're doing your job? Or you're corrupt, the ones in charge of this part of the job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64562	Thank you. The word has Vladimir Orlic. Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64563	Thank you. I didn't mention his name, was it corrupt or ignorant? Don't be angry, Mrs. Radeta, there's no reason. As you can see, we're having a nice conversation about everything, and there's no need for it to be any different. When someone says the problem is that the lost disputes that you've seen, you've done well, you've lost, you've lost, and that's why the former government carries a direct sin, that we have some pension problem, so I understand your structure, I have to tell you that you're wrong. It is known whose responsibility it is and, of course, what the public was and how much care it was for the state of the former regime. It's more than well known to everyone in this country. But it's not true that there was no increase in pensions in the meantime. When we spoke, and indeed did, the Serbian government today takes care of this issue, these needs are properly addressed. We have witnessed in this room on several occasions that we are making decisions to make these increases as well as those different single support programs. One we've had recently, it seems to me that it hasn't been a month and a half since we've made another decision, again, in a series of similar decisions to help our pensioners, it's worth 5,000 dinars. But with this formula, the Swiss formula we're talking about today, we're going to have not that 5.4%, 5.5% since January of the month, as much as that formula brings, a new pension increase. We're going to be cumulatively compared to the period there in mid-2014 to today having an increase from, we talked about it here more precisely, at least 14% to over 19%. So this isn't the first increase. If you were right first, it's 5.5% total, but from 14% to 19%, almost 20%, it's unequivocally saying there were more increases. Of course, our pensioners know that. The essence of the policy that we're conducting is that it's always going to be more and it's always better and not to deal with those situations that we've had in the past when we had to put the fire out, save the state's register, but also all pensions and all pay, rather than make sure that every year there's something better, that pensioners, but also employees, young people can feel better today. It is the policy which today in Serbia wins, which therefore has the support of the people, but makes Serbia, above all, a good country, a significantly better country than it was, makes Serbia today a winner.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64564	Time, I apologize.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64565	It's Alexander Vukic and SNS policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64566	Thank you. We'll give the word to the minister, then I'll give you a replica. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64567	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, let me only look back at what we had the opportunity to hear, to answer your questions. I don't know where you found 200 million euros. When you add these two conts, you have 20.2 billion dinars. So it's not 200m euros. That's number one. Number two, within that money, I've said a little before, you have four billion relating to the old foreign savings obligation that we have to pay under the law next year and that's at the Public Debt Administration. In addition, you have a billion and a half dinars of war veterans from the 1990s. If you're not to pay off all those obligations, it's okay. You've got court rulings you have to pay. I don't know what other solution is. You say, "We don't want to pay for it." Okay. Since it is a matter of legal force, arbitration rulings, therefore, the next step is that they are preying on the property of the Republic of Serbia around the world, and we have not lost it, this government has not led to it. These are all contracts from 2001, 2007, 2010, 2011. Unfortunately, this was how the state was managed during that period, which is why you have then a record unemployment from that period and a record deficit and a negative growth rate and a record public debt. With this practice stopped, this government is responsible and is completely different in running its economic policy. For these penalties and the penalties of the previous authorities what is good, yes, we have provided money to make it worth it, with a desire never to happen that way again, because that's the money that we can make better use of. That's where I can tell you that you're right. If we didn't have these litigation disputes, there might be more money to raise the salary and raise the pensions. Unfortunately, we return what these before us have left in the amanet, which is exactly the picture and opportunity of Serbia that we do not want to leave for our children in the amanet. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64568	Thank you. The word is "Verica Radet." Right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64569	Thank you. So it's not true that there was an increase in pensions in 2019. The amount of 5,000 dinars a year is not an increase, it's a church, charity, I don't know what we'd call it, something that didn't in any case contribute to the rise in pensioner's standard of living. Secondly, there is no model for increasing pensions in Serbia, let alone Swiss. You're talking about some Swiss we still don't have in the proposal, which isn't discussed here, which is the question of whether or not it will be. Don't distract the people, as you say the average salary will be 500 euros in December, you've been saying since May. Wait till it happens, and then you talk about it. So in Serbia, there is not a single established form of pension harmonisation, and that is the only truth. The coordination of pensions, or charity, was given to the ministers, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and just as we Serbian radicals claimed when the law was being discussed, there was no increase, because the law did not oblige anyone. You know, you tell ministers -- you can raise your pension, and you don't have to. See if there's a dollar somewhere, so you can raise it up. They say, well, there isn't, so we can't. That's not how you run a state, that's not how you run a serious monetary policy, that's not how pensions are coordinated, but to see if it's going to be that Swiss or I don't know what system, we're going to talk about it when it's on the agenda, so whatever it is, you're going to establish something that's going to be binding on anyone who's in power and it won't matter if it's the minister, whether it's the government, or whether it's her, but it's going to be binding on every government until the law changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64570	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic. Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64571	I don't think you're right, Mrs. Radeta, when these single support programs, which we've had on several occasions, are beinglittled by calling them church, charity and in similar ways. It is money that is significant for a large number of pensioners in Serbia. When you talk to people, and I'm sure you're able to talk to them, ask them. So, I was talking about it, and it seems to me, in this room, and I was saying, maybe you weren't there. That's the money that means to our pensioners. I've been listening to people who are just saying -- we wanted, for example, to buy a new TV a long time ago, and we haven't been able to. It's just, time's running out. It's been decades, and we haven't been able to buy a new TV set, but, well, today, thanks to our serious, responsible attitude towards state finances, according to the state's register, so we can also finance these programmes that pensioners with all levels of income, from the lowest and beyond, we can provide, for example, 5,000 dinars, for one fall, and then so much next fall. There's two pensioners in the house, and then they put those two amounts together and people tell me, I listen to it with my ears, buy a new TV set. You know, they don't think that's what they're downplayed by. On the contrary, the people rejoice, meaning to them. Do you know what else they say, since you talk about a relationship with political actors and what people think and how they experience it? They say - I have a new TV thanks to Alexander Vukic and the Serbian government. That's what people feel and that's what people think. It's not supposed to be about self-repair. Once again, these programs are one time, but there are increases in pensions that remain permanent. It wouldn't be possible for us to have 14% today, 15% 18%, 19% higher pensions than in mid-2014, if there were no such moves. We said it nicely, the Swiss formula that you were talking about here, when we remember what happened a year ago, you knew very well what it meant. It is a harmonisation that applies simultaneously to salary growth and to low prices. The combination of these factors calculates the coefficient or percentage, as you like, for which correction is carried out. That's what we expect by that formula to be about 5.4% and when that increase comes from January 1st, it's 19% more than in 2014. You'll agree, I'm sure, it's not a little bit, and God let us be so fast.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64572	Right on the line, the People's Messenger of the Faith of the Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64573	Minister, is it so that what Mr. Orlic said isn't a Swiss model? This is a model that advocates the SRS, which in our program writes, but it's not Swiss, but we'll talk about it when it comes to the agenda. By the way, Minister, I owe you an apology. I said 22 billion dinars go to the name of wrongly concluded arbitration contracts, to harmful contracts, and I said it was about 200m euros. Excuse me, please, that's 188m euros. I've really overstepped. Don't, Minister, be petty. The fact is 22 billion dinars go nowhere. For those 22 billion dinars in the budget, there could be a lot of raises in the standards of pensioners, farmers, employees, children, the most endangered categories, and you know it well. You say we pay some debts from before, some wrong arbitration from before, and you say I said we wouldn't pay for it. That's absolutely not true. We know what has to be paid, but we ask you, Minister, you've been in power seven years, not since yesterday, you've been in power seven years, so we ask you who's being thrown out of the Republic of Serbia's budget for this 22 billion? Who have you replaced? Did you change your defense counsel, by any chance? Have you changed the deputy attorneys? Have you changed the defenders to the level of local self-government and the City of Belgrade, which is also local self-government, because the state was responsible for many of the contracts they concluded? Why did you take people working on these jobs that damaged the country for nearly 200 million, precisely for 188m euros? That's a question for you, and we didn't say we wouldn't pay off our commitments. We know that obligations must be paid, but at least some of them would be charged from the assets of those who have damaged so much property of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64574	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Sinisha Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64575	Thank you very much. I accept your apology, I'd just like to point out another mistake you've made. I just told you, it's not 22 billion, it's 20.2 billion. In addition, in those 20.2 billion, 5.9 billion are related to the old foreign currency savings. So they're not money that's on lost arbitration or I don't know what. Two, and I'll end up with that, I agree with you. Of course that money could be used much better. I couldn't agree more. These are the contracts of 2001, 2007 etc. I wish we hadn't signed those contracts, or the previous government didn't sign them. I wish we hadn't lost those disputes, but apparently, when they were signed, they put the Republic of Serbia in such a position that we didn't have any choice, and by the time we got to arbitration, the arguments were obviously on their side. What is my wish, and I said, of course, you'll have a chance to talk to the Minister of Justice, that such cases and such agreements, on the one hand, are not signed, and those cases are not happening in the future, because if we've singled out the money for those couple of disputes that we lost in 2020, let's just say that in 2021, when we prepare the budget for that, when we discuss it, we see that this figure is much smaller, because we certainly won't have lost disputes about war veterans' diaries, we won't have this obligation for old foreign currency savings. We won't even have all these arbitrations that we lost because of a contract from a previous period. I hope that in 2021 it will be very different, but at this point we were completely honest, fair, transparent and said – this is what we know it will be. Let's put it in the budget, so it doesn't come from some current budget reserves or some balance sheet space that we have to pay and that it doesn't stand anywhere, and that nobody knows about it. Here's how he knows, transparently and publicly, everything we have to pay, we will pay, with our obligation to cut those figures year after year and that such contracts, the harmful ones, signed by the previous authorities, will not be in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64576	Thank you. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64577	It's a good thing this is, as you say, transparent, but you still won't understand me. So it doesn't really matter if it's 188 or 186m euros, but the fact that it's a really big, big number to throw away. You say, when the arbitration took place. The point is, there had to be someone smart, someone famous, someone who's a little bit of a lawyer, a little bit of an economist, so he knows when it's certain... Here, Mrs. Gojkovic knows, when it is certain that some dispute will be lost, then you do not go to great expense. You, for example, are someone before you or many who are now with you and you yourself at the Privatisation Agency, how responsible it is for the people of the Privatisation Agency for these contracts and going to arbitration, and it is known in advance that this arbitration will be lost. This is the problem, which is done on purpose, because someone with that client is agreed, knows that the arbitration will lose, the state of Serbia will pay, and whoever is on behalf of the state representing the state in arbitration is taking part in an agreement with the other party. This isn't conspiracy theory, this is living truth, and that's why arbitration happens where it's known in advance that they'll be lost. That's what we want to stress that it must never happen again, and we ask you again, Minister, who is responsible for this? You know, these people didn't disappear, they didn't go underground, they didn't go to heaven. These people live, they exist. You know who signed the contract. It is known who represented Serbia's state in which arbitration. You know, who was responsible for losing this amount of money. If that were not the case, today pensions could be the lowest 37,000 dinars required by Serbian radicals. Here are the questions you or you won't or don't know the answer to.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64578	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Sinisha Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64579	Thank you very much. I answer your questions, I just can't agree that arbitration is a problem. The arbitration is due to wrongly concluded or harmful contracts from a previous period, as the Republic of Serbia, at that time, did not respect some of its obligations. Then when with a contract that is not in favour of the Republic of Serbia or which contains some provisions that are not in favour of the Republic of Serbia, if the other party uses its rights and wins the arbitration, I tell you – and what should we do but pay? Whether it's good or not, I don't know, but it's the law. On the other hand, I agree with you that it is necessary to avoid the possibility that such contracts should be signed at all, that it should be an appropriate analysis, surveillance, whatever you want. I don't believe that arbitration itself is a problem, that's because of the problem. The cause of these contracts is in the way of leading the state during that time period in, perhaps, you yourself said in the interests that were then. I don't know, I can't get into it. All I know is that as a responsible government we want not to let them take our property abroad. We want, if we have already lost our arbitration before the International Court, before international arbitration, to cover our obligations and pay off and pay off on this matter with a great desire never to repeat such things again. I can't be in the head of the people who signed a contract in 2001 with this "Kunstrass". I don't know who signed it. I don't know if there are any disputes against these people or not, I don't really know. I don't know who signed the agreement in December 2011 about some spas or I don't know when this was in Vranj in 2000 or what year. How do I know that? But on the budget, if our budget issue is for 2020, here are the citizens of Serbia who can see everything we need to pay, we put into the budget the most transparent and most open. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64580	Right on line, MP Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64581	Okay, it can be a replica because I've been mentioned by Verice Radeta, although in a positive, truly positive sense, because we understand legal issues and arbitration issues. I wanted to say something in favor of this government. He is absolutely right, Minister Mali, when he openly speaks about the problems that this country inherited, and these are really very harmful contracts from the jurisdiction of certain ministries that have found not only this government where Sinisa Mali is the finance minister, but also the previous ones, means until 2012. Why someone, it is important for the public to say that this government has made no harmful contract where there is some kind of prosecutor and where it is seeking compensation from the Serbian state for failing to comply with contractual obligations listed by some ministries. I must remind you that the former Minister of Culture, for example from 2004 or 2005, I don't know, you will correct me, Verica Radeta remembers very well, when the government, Minister Kadadinovic, the minister of culture, who signed a very, very harmful contract for the state of Serbia with an Austrian firm, is at least being run as an Austrian firm "Kunstrase". I think that arbitration in America is over and that's the way it is. (Sinisha Mali: It is in the budget. ) It is in the budget to be paid. It won't be a burden in the next period... Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: In 2006) In 2006, I remember that, for keeping and depositing art paintings and works from the National Museum that was in reconstruction. Look, I remember something, too. It's a trait of old people remembering the past more than they did yesterday. I'm serious about my job, I remember everything. I have to tell you, I've warned the various culture ministers about it many times. I called on them to go to extrajudicial alignment, that it was much better, knowing the systems of what international arbitration looks like, and when you see that you can't put something back, and when you add away from the basic debt interest and the costs of the process, then the defendant is in a big problem. No minister would listen to me at any stage of the procedure, thinking that just because I'm in another party, I have some evil intentions. I don't have a lawyer's experience. I have experience in such disputes, and I knew it would not be good for the state because there is, on the one hand, a relevant signature of the authorised minister and decision of the Serbian Government. On the other hand, a legal person, an internal person, means someone with elements abroad, and we haven't fulfilled our obligations, we haven't paid off. Interestingly, we never broke that harmful contract. So, at one stage we could break the contract, when I say -- we could, I say Serbia, not one minister, but not a contract is being fulfilled, the images were never held there, one single day, because it's a very bad contract. There were no conditions, in some wetlands of Belgrade they wanted to build a depot. So pure lies and fraud, but obligations continued to burden the Republic of Serbia. They got that dispute and that's why we have this huge amount of money that the state has to pay off, and it could, for some other purpose, make that money look smart, but, well, it's not on this government that it's made mistakes, but this government is responsible, the continuity of a country, and it's got to fix bad things now. And also, not to say from the economic portfolio, one such arbitration occurred perhaps a certain year ago, and something like that had to again from some early 20s and some millions to pay four or five times the amount after the arbitration. All because of harmful contracts. The problem is that no one has ever initiated some kind of criminal procedure to determine what you're talking about, and you're saying very dangerous, difficult things, accusing things for earlier governments. Who is it that purposely concluded some kind of contract and later gave up for various reasons or could not have fulfilled such a harmful contract since the fulfillment of it? I am witnessing that Minister Mali has a completely different relationship with such things and that he does some things in advance to prevent others from being sued, so that Serbia will no longer be sued he enters the deal, in line with those where he has great certainty, to get a dispute against the state again, to meet, he will pay off the mains, and the other side has a good intention of not asking for a claim, not asking for interest for three or four years' debt, because he respects the state and wants to continue to be partners with the state. I also said this politically as a lawyer, to explain that the finance minister and this government of the Republic of Serbia are doing everything they can to resolve the mistakes of the past and do everything they can to make sure that there are no such lawsuits in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64582	Right on the line, the People's Messenger of the Faith of the Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64583	You see, ministers, as long as I've known Mrs. Maja Gojkovic, and that's almost 25 years old, she's always been interested in culture and you see as someone who's interested in how she remembers precisely all the details about this harmful contract that Kadadinovic has concluded in time and about which we in the National Assembly then talked about and drew attention to what happened. But as Mrs Gojkovic recalls, you can't say you don't know who signed the contract. As far as we know, it wasn't reported that there was a fire in some archives, there must be. You have contracts, you have copies, ask ministers in the government, ask Mladjan Dinkic who would make you Minister of Government, Rasim Ljajic, who is today, Goran Knezevic, who is today. So you even have that kind of continuity, not to just say what the continuity of the documents is. Here, I will remind you now, Minister, you were then at the Privatisation Agency, 40m euros in Serbia lost because after 2000, after the "buldozer of the revolution" you did not allow privatisation, or you did not allow the Greeks to enter the Bor, and then there was copper still in Bor, copper was not robbed as it happened in the meantime and because it was not accepted by Serbia lost 40m euros. In 2014, related to India, these some green zones, energo-zones, etc. Before the arbitration was offered to the Attorney General to conclude the settlement, the D.A. wouldn't. There you go. Find out who the lawyer was in 2014. He's got to answer. So, if I, as a defense attorney, say, I don't want to conclude the settlement, then I, as a defense attorney, have convinced you that I'm getting 100% arbitration. If I, as a defense attorney, fool you as a minister and say, no, there is no alignment here, we go to arbitration, because we're going to get arbitration, he knows in advance that he won't, the money divides, I repeat, with whoever Serbia is in the dispute, and that's why what's going on is happening. I'm just saying, start, you also mentioned Minister Nelu, of course, we don't mind including her, especially when it comes to costs that aren't in this part, but that are also great, which are also happening because of the poor work of the courts, because of the lack of respect for the principles of the trial within a reasonable period, because work disputes are being lost, so people are going back to work, they're being paid big damages, mainly public, public institutions, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64584	Thank you. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64585	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Ministers with Associates, I have tabled an amendment to Article 5(1). The draft budget law of the Republic of Serbia for 2020. Although the essence of my amendment is legal-technical, I will take advantage of the opportunity to say something that I think is very important when it comes to the budget of the Republic of Serbia. The budget is the most important thing on the basis of which each government's work and success are appreciated, and so is this progressive government. Since I was born in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, I lived down to the violent exodus, I have one very important question for the Prime Minister. First of all, I'd like the Prime Minister to explain to me how KIM is viewed with this budget. A large number of our citizens who experience Serbia as their own country continue to live down there. However, I have the impression that the state of Serbia has forgotten these citizens when budget allocations are made, as you forgot Resolution 1244, that Kosovo and Metohija are an integral part of the Republic of Serbia. I'm saying this based on the experience of many of my countrymen who know and know how. I fully understand all the problems our government faces when helping these citizens, but on the other hand, I have the impression that everything that is possible is not done when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija. Here, for example, we've heard a lot about digital classrooms and modernising a huge number of schools, but we haven't heard anything about schools in Kosovo and Metohija? Of course, here I mean those schools that teach in Serbian and which work according to the plans and programmes of the Serbian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64586	The 5th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Alexander Chabrai. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Chabrai.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64587	Thank you. I would not want to waste a second of this precious time needed for this most important amendment today, except to say that I have published, I have with me the paper that I handed over to my office in July of the month, that I am not a member of any party and that I am asking the Assembly to lead me as such in my records, and I would no longer discuss these claims, except I am genuinely interested in why it is even important to anyone whether I am a member of a party. You see, some colleagues would tell me now -- that's what you should do when you go into the O.R. As you can see, there aren't many who are ready for this kind of discussion. But I got into the O.R. today for a very important reason, and now I'm going to get to it. I hope that all MPs here know that the Hive is one of the very important, I can say freely, the hotspots currently in the city and in the Republic, where from a few months ago citizens have self-organised, so to speak, completely self-initiatively, in some kind of effort to defend themselves against the things that are happening and that they don't want to do. It is known that a large part of the Kosutnjak has already been devastated, devastated, because of plans to build some artificial rock and a multi-functional hall there, causing protests by citizens this summer, which have been much worse. On that occasion, today he was an independent committee from the Rakovica municipality, Dejan Ivanovic, my guest at my press conference, on that occasion was collected, among other things, I say, I have little time, about 3,000 signatures of citizens who do not want to build this. I have here the documents he asked for to be delivered to all MPs. If this amendment were to be respected, you would have fulfilled the citizens' wish not to build this hall or at least not to be built in Kosutnjak, where five times more trees are scheduled to be cut than has been done so far. It's very important to the citizens. I therefore ask you to respect this amendment, to grant the wish of the citizens who gave their signatures. The city government recently had an online poll on a question about the Sava Bridge two and a half to three and a half people's pleas, and it considers it relevant. Since the same number of citizens is here, and none of them wanted this to be built, they can't be citizens' voices and their voice important and relevant only when the authorities respond, whether it's city or republican. Therefore, I ask you, you will receive all these materials, and I ask you to vote in favour of this amendment and thus fulfill the wish of citizens who do not wish to turn our family resort of the Kosutnjak, the lungs of Belgrade, into some kind of site of some objects that no one wants. If I had time, I'd read you something from this material. (President: Bringing the end, colleague. All right. I know I have a little time. But here, you'll all get this material. So, on behalf of the citizens who live there, on behalf of all the citizens of Belgrade, I ask you to adopt this amendment of mine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64588	The word is made by Minister Sinisha Mali.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64589	Thank you very much. A few things I'd like to mention. First of all, we always listen to citizens. And all the projects that you used in this case, this is an example from the city of Belgrade, in all cases when we were thinking about new projects, we have consulted citizens of Belgrade, in the last five years it is certainly so, from projects related to the color of the bus to the reconstruction of certain streets, the construction of parks, urban pockets, the reconstruction of facades, the replacement of public lighting, etc. That's very important. Take the Ustasha Park. If you want to be honest with yourself, two years ago, Ustasha Park was, someone would say, a green oasis, a green oasis that no one had entered. You had two or three paths, but there was no life, there were no people, there were no children. Now look what the mouth park looks like. You have dozens of terrains, walking trails, running trails, playgrounds for children. You pass at any time of the day, you have many children, parents, older ones who walk and enjoy content, and yet they are in the green oasis. As far as the Kosovos are concerned, if you saw how the trim track was reconstructed, lighting, new streets, the new asphalt that is set there, the multifunctional centre is directed towards the development of sport, especially for small sports. We want to be even better and make sure our kids don't spend time with computers or just computers, TVs, sports. So, they're not going to destroy the Hive. This one facility will allow children to practice especially those smaller sports. If I'm not mistaken, there'll be taevondo, karate, aikida, judo. But interestingly enough, we have a gold medal in Tekvondo from the Olympics, in judo too. We want to give young people a chance to play sports. The basic requirement of Belgrade's citizens, believe it or not, was to create a multi-functional centre, that children can deal with these sports, to make some new champions, Olympic, global, European, Serbian. So, there is something called the preservation of green oasis in the city of Belgrade. The confirmation for this is the number of trees planted every year and a green fund that is increasing in the city of Belgrade every year. On the other hand, you have something called life, you have a need to move on, you need to provide our children with that exercise space, a space for sport, a place where they can spend time, and once they get out, they're in the Kosutnjak, so it's not a factory, so it's going to pollute the Hive. It's a place where kids can play sports. The whole of Kosutnjak, after all, is sports-recreative content, sports-recreative, multi-functional sports-related hall is sport, part of the sports-recreative character of the Kosutnjak town of Belgrade, and then we will invest even more. As you know, we've invested in the pioneer town of Kosutnjak to bring it back to the children of Belgrade. You have new paths there, you have new playgrounds, you have new facilities that people, when they go to Ada Ciganli, when they go to Kosutnjak, when they go to Ustasha Park, have the facilities to deal with it, that children have a reason to go out. So, once again, the Hive is a sports-recreative content, a hall that is directed towards the development of sports, especially directed towards our children, to fully fit into it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64590	The People's MP, Alexander Chabrai, has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64591	Minister, I really ask you that if there is a need, I really speak here on behalf of the citizens, and you could see for yourself that, you know, either yourself, or I hope you know what the protests were about to cut one-fifth of what was yet to be cut, I don't dispute, let them build a multi-functional or whatever sports halls, but they don't have to be built where for decades citizens have a picnic. You know for a fact that this is both an environmental problem and a problem of each other's kind. So there's a million chances that something like that doesn't work in the Hive. The citizens clearly said they didn't want to. I don't want to go into the story right now and tell you what all the citizens said that they didn't want it here in Serbia to be built the way it was built. I'll stick to what I'm really authorized to speak for these citizens today. I'm absolutely sure of what I'm saying. You can build something like that elsewhere, it's big in Belgrade. There's a lot of opportunities for that. Please keep the Hive green oasis. By planting some seedlings somewhere, those trees that have been growing there for decades cannot be replaced, and each country preserves its natural and historical-cultural heritage, and Serbia should also do so. So, citizens don't want it in that place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64592	The People's MP Maja Gojkovic has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64593	I don't know if I have time to comment on the amendment of the letter. I don't know if she understood the minister. I have a right in the group to comment, don't I? You're right, of course. ) Did she understand a minister who was once mayor of Belgrade, because polls have just been conducted with citizens of Belgrade who have defined that there are needs and desires in this part of Belgrade to build a multi-functional facility, such as this sports facility that is scheduled. On the other hand, of course, as Verse Radeta said, I'm interested in culture. As chairman of the Environment Committee, of course I'm also interested in the environment. There are many, many cacaphonies in Serbia today, as you said, protected cultural and historical goods, referring to protected, possibly natural goods, not cultural and historical goods. Let me tell you, there are several, two, three, four truly protected natural goods in Serbia. One tree is on my parents' property, they've put up their own initiative and maybe another one in Chačka and, I don't know, maybe two more. It's not true that all natural good trees, as you say, are protected. They are not protected because no one thinks of the citizens, from citizens' initiatives to do something concrete, but when something starts to build only then they remember that they might need to protect some natural good. Let me tell you another problem that appears in Serbia in the old trees. What will happen when such weather disasters happen, as they happened a few months ago in Belgrade, and when trees that were not removed in time, were replaced, yes, they fell, caused great material damage to people? I think there were some serious bodily injuries or endangering people's lives, because the trees fell on them. It's a very complex matter, on the one hand, where citizens jump to every mention of urbanization where there's a green part of the city and on this side where no one takes care of any harmful consequences. I say, take a list of protected natural goods, unfortunately, Serbia has only a few protected natural goods, it can fit on one hand, because people hate that initiative they have implemented. I'll give you documentation of what my mother did to protect the lip that's several hundred years old and you can rewrite that model, but she has to meet certain conditions, study, etc. It's not true that building an urban facility is always the opposite of protecting the environment. Look what's been done down around Belgrade on the water. There we looked at various political initiatives to keep it dirty, this greater protection of the environment, that we had those rotten shitties of ships, boats, that we had there a junkie's litter, syringes that were thrown, rats, snakes. For a while, I was a tenant on Karajord Street. I was ashamed to go into that part of the city at night, what it looked like, and today it's one of the most prestigious parts of Belgrade. I was the other day and it looks beautiful. I haven't visited the park yet, but I have seen that there are no new parks and that what you think has been protected and should not have been urbanized today is an oasis of nature and a good life for all of Belgrade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64594	The Prime Minister Sinisha Mali has the right to reply, and then Alexander Chabrai. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64595	Just specific information for you MPs. So, since the beginning of the construction of the multi-functional hall, 110 trees have been planted on the Kosutnjak. Is it true or isn't it? It was removed between 45 and 50. By the end of the construction, 100 more trees will be planted. So, the result will be 210 trees planted, 50 removed and a new multi-functional hall worth, if I'm not mistaken, three or four million euros, which will be a new oasis for our youngsters, for our children to play sports. I think it is the essence of the Hive, once again, as a green oasis, as a sports-recreative center. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64596	The People's MP, Alexander Chabrai, has the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64597	Thank you, Minister, for this information. I just have to tell you, citizens know it very well, so far, you've said, between 45 and 50 trees. Until now, it has been continuously operated on by some data that citizens have seen with their own eyes that it is not true and that it is 19 trees. I have no intention of arguing, not about the number of trees, or with most of what you and Mrs. Gojkovic said. So that's not the question here. It's not a question that something might need to be built or not to be built. I agree that unfortunately many of the natural, historical and cultural goods in this country are not protected. I personally have proposed many amendments to the Cultural Goods Act. I'm not going to spread the subject now. I have heard something that will finally change that law, which is a big problem and the fact that the status of these goods or very often is controversial. It's not even part of this story. Part of this story right now is that the citizens who were protesting, you know, the big part of the summer spent there, they said they didn't want this to be built there. I'm obliged to tell you on behalf of these citizens. That's what I want you to remember and please, let me repeat, it's not a problem, I believe, to build all that in any other place. No sick trees were cut, healthy trees were cut mostly. It's already been said that citizens don't mind building this somewhere else, but not in the Kosutnjak that should remain as it is, because it's the desire of the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64598	Right to the replica of Minister Sinisha Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64599	I want to bring this discussion to an end. Please, here are two questions I have for you. How does building that hall endanger a green oasis called the Hive? Here, if you can explain that professionally, I'd really appreciate it with a question that has more to do with math. Is it 19 trees or 45, if it's already been planted 110, is it more or less? If the sports minister has promised to plant another 100, there will be more greenery and there will be more trees planted in the Kostunica than before it marked the beginning of the construction of the centre. So, the Hive will be greener, if it's a fight and if that's the point of your amendment, it'll be greener if they have more planted trees. Yes or no, or will it be full of chimneys from factories that are going to work there, not a place for our little people to play sports and spend their free time recreation and doing something that will make them even better people in the future? Here, answer that question for me, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64600	Right on the line, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64601	No problem. Thank you. Here, I'll answer you. The Hive will be devastated because the trees are being cut to concrete a large part of the Kosutnjak Park, which is now a green oasis. I don't see any problem, you say new trees will be planted. Well, it's not just that we're cutting trees here, and here we plant, I can't replace those trees. We can do the whole Hive, and now we get some other location, so that's where we make the new Hive. Well, that's not the point. Citizens want the Hive as it is. So that's what I'm talking about. It is not disputed that I can plant myself, although I am very interested in whether so many trees will be planted. The problem is in that part that's been cut, it's concrete, where the trees are cut. Which is why you can't build this hall elsewhere, and I'm telling you again that it's the citizens' wish. It's not just a matter of numbers, I'm not a mathematician, I can't answer you professionally, because I'm a professional translator, but I know what citizens want, and they showed it to their protests and their signatures. I can't convince you otherwise than to tell you, and you whether or not you will fulfill the wish of the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64602	The word has a minister, Mr. Sinisha Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64603	You know how, don't tell me about whether or not I'm going to meet the wishes of the citizens. This isn't about citizens' wishes. This is also about your political position and your fight and the topics you are running for public promotion. That's one. So this isn't about what you're talking about. If you are fighting for greener Belgrade and greener Kosutnjak, it will certainly be greener if there are more trees. I didn't say those trees would be planted in Zimbabwe, I said they'd be planted on the Hive. If you're fighting for a green Hive, you'll have more trees. On the other hand, work on that facility has already begun. You'd like us to stop those papers now. Why stop the works when in a year's time, I apologize, in six, seven, eight months' time, there's gonna be the most beautiful hall, the most modern multi-functional hall with hundreds of little boys who'll be playing sports, and they'll be out, and they'll be back in Kosutnjak, and they'll be going on that three-way, playing tennis and everything. Why would we do that? Is there anything called progress and progress? I gave you an example of Ustasha Park as a green surface that was brought into function where you have content, where you have people, where you have life. That's what I'm saying about the Hive. I don't think there's any threat to the green area we're fighting for. If anyone did anything, we are because every year they plant more and more trees in Belgrade and you know it. Look at the statistics. If anyone listens to the citizens, we listen to the citizens. Let's go forward. You have a majority, you have a minority. We want to move forward. We want most citizens of Belgrade to meet and build this multi-functional hall now that we have money, when we have opportunities and we want to plant trees along and across the hall, however, to give our children the opportunity to play sports, to deal with recreation, not to watch those screens, computers and iPads all day long. I've told you everything and you know it all, and you will, of course, push your story, but don't just honor me that I won't or we won't fulfill the wishes of the citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64604	Right to the replica of the People's MP Alexander Chabrai. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64605	Thank you. It's starting to remind me of that wing - we'll make a nicer and older Hive. They don't want people to build something here, crash in this place and make it here. I really did say and convey what you must have known, if you had followed, which was why there were protests on the Hive. I guess you've been following, I guess you've seen how long it's been, and I guess you know the citizens have said that. I totally understand that they want some park that we all remember and I remember it from some days, it doesn't matter now that we're talking about our personal memories. You say kids wouldn't look at cell phones and screens. If they play in Kosutnjak where nature is and where the biggest nature park in Belgrade is, they will certainly not look at mobile screens. I don't think we can agree on this. It is your right to claim that there, right there, a multi-functional hall must be built, and it is my right to claim that the citizens do not want it and to ask you to fulfill the citizens' wish by voting for this amendment. I have nothing else to add to that, and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64606	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64607	I suggest that the amendment to Alexander Chabrai is not adopted because we really don't understand what she was going to say to these. Nor did she say where to build a multi-functional sports hall for the citizens of Belgrade, nor did she answer if anyone signed that initiative or said they were on the streets, and now it's generally fashion to go to the streets and be against everything in this country and it's very popular, it's now become, as the kids would say, "mass because" to go out on the street and be against everything. So, against Serbia in the 21st century -- a movement for that. I know you're not a member of that. You're a member of the Green Party, that's what we've determined. (Alexandra Chabraya: I'm not.) It is. They're taking you in. You didn't complain about what was wrong with being a member of the Green Party. That's not bad at all. That's modern now. We all deal with climate change and environmental protection in a populist way, and no one is essential. They are very happy and satisfied that they have received a new MP, and we are pleased that you are not boycotting the work of parliament, that you are one normal woman and that you know that the place is any debate, and that there is also a struggle to not build a sports hall in the vicinity of the Kosutnjak or in Kosutnjak, I am not going into it, I am not a Belgrade girl, right here in parliament. That's why I have great respect for you. I want to discuss it. So let's see which one of you started the initiative to really become a protected natural good. So it wasn't even achieved on the Kopalnik, so now we have a modern tourist ski center. Well, it's not on the Old Mountain, and no one's running either, so some trees must have been cut down to get hotels, to get cablers, etc., so in Zlatibor, no one started it. I say responsibly, there are only a few protected natural goods in Serbia and nothing more and nothing less. That's the only way we can do it. You remember when the highway was supposed to be built, so everyone with some superstition went to protect some tree. After I took a little interest in this matter, no one ever initiated a procedure to really be protected by natural well-being. But if we were to move the highway to other locations, it was fantastic ideas. Today, it is modern in Serbia to be against everything. It's not modern to be conservative, it's not modern to be serious, it's not modern to be objective, it's all become a mess. You go outside and you claim you're right. It has now become a prevailing political opinion, at least in the work of a public who is extremely voting. He's not influential, but he voted and popular. I say the popular thing is, you're on your way into the Green Party, I mean, you are already a member of that Green Party, and to draw attention to you, that's all there is to it. Once Serbia was against the railways during Obrenovic, they said an iron horse was going, but we still have the railway. We're against everything else, as a people, it's so popular, probably both against electricity and against everything. So there are some inevitable things to fulfill the wishes of citizens who want such an object. On the other hand, there's a tendency to have a green Belgrade, and I'm convinced now that after an example of what happened in the area of Beograda on the water, where everyone was complaining that it would be, I don't know, what to do, and the other day we saw the opening of a new fantastic park, if the park is said to be, then there's certainly greenery, green surfaces, trees, so they were all crying about the square here in Belgrade that there's no more trees, so now there's trees. I am convinced that the events that follow, therefore, the construction of this centre near the Kosutnjak will deny you and that there will be a beautiful green area that will be able to actually use children. So, they won't fight the junkie syringes, they won't be afraid to walk through that park at night, there won't be broken glass bottles, there won't be maniacs intercepting women and children, it'll be a park like Belgrade in the 21st century and deserves it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64608	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger Miladin Ševarlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64609	Thank you very much, Chairman. Tako bush isn't much of a tree. It's a historical mark and it could have avoided his memory. I think we should take care of how we qualify for a tree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64610	I didn't really understand, so I can't tell you where I broke the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the People's Assembly in voting day to plead on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) Right to replica, People's Messenger Alexander Chabrai.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64611	I beg you, you are the president of this assembly, looking for this document that I submitted to the office in July, if you can't get it, I will bring you a copy, I have it at home, that I am led by the Assembly as an independent MP who is not a member of any party. So I'm not a member of the Green Party or any other party. I don't know how else to prove it. I mean, first of all, this isn't the subject of debate, but I really didn't, and I don't know why you keep saying it when I can prove it. After all, you're a lawyer, you're a lawyer, so you should know you're not claiming anything that I can prove isn't true. I really don't want to make any more claims like this. I asked you to fulfill the citizens' wish, I see you do not take seriously the citizens' wishes. You know, you say the people are going out into the streets, you say they're looking for it, so you agree with me, but you don't think it should be fulfilled. All right, you said yours, I said mine, and we don't have to agree. That's what this congregation is for. What you're saying is that I went into the Assembly to represent this, so I did, because I wanted to honor what the citizens asked me to do, but the way you treat me, first of all with these incorrect claims, really speaks to my great sadness in favour of not being heard in this room the way it should be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64612	Right on the line, Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64613	That's what I could say now, if you weren't ready for dialogue, if you weren't willing to listen to my way of thinking. I guess it's normal for me to say something, my views, I don't have to repeat everything you say. Don't argue with me if you're a member of the Green Party. You can be, you can't be, I don't care. By the way, your colleague Chabradi, the daily newspaper "Today", the newspaper that the opposition are certainly not going on my hands, says Chabraya, a new MP for the Green Party. I'm willing to represent you in a dispute against these newspapers because they invented it. I only use resources – research journalism, so I look at what's on the Internet about you, and I quote. Today Ambassador Chabradi shakes hands with you, you're smiling, he has a bright blue shirt, here's a photograph of my words. Goran Chabradi, Alexander Chabrai photo Green Party. Chabraya entered parliament as a member of the movement. Very soon before the presidential election left the movement. Their parliamentary club has so far acted as an independent MP and then quote your praises to the Green Party's policy. It's not a party to conflict and division, it's not a policy of rallying and countermitting, you've been talking about them for a long time, I can't quote it all now. I'm sure as a team we'll do a lot of additions to the Chabradi leader of the Green Party. And then you say you entered politics five years ago. Again, you deny what you said you weren't a politician, and you entered politics, etc. I have no bad intentions for you, but only responsibility to the citizens that you did not in time deny everything that came out of the daily list "Today" about you, and you did not deny when you were held up by this MP. As far as you're concerned, as you said - the Takow bush. You've got something mixed up. No one mentioned the Takovski shrub, but some old oak that appeared in the section of the road that was built several years ago, where common sense prevailed in Serbia. Some superstition, if we touch that old oak, I don't know what's going to happen in Serbia. That's what I was talking about. About always having a group of people who wish there were no railways in Serbia, going back to the time the Obrenovics were spending Serbia, taking her to Europe and those who think that against the old oak, the section of the highway must be built. There was no mention of such a bush. And let's mention, it's no problem if we don't stop this debate today. Tomorrow morning, we'll continue on the Takow bush. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-26-0.u64614	Thank you. We'd be done with today's work. We'll continue tomorrow at 10.00 hours.
