ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-0.u62603	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Third Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that the session is attended by 67 MPs. I remind you, Article 8 is paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly stipulates that the quorum in voting day exists if a majority of the total number of MPs are present at the National Assembly session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 127 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly within the meaning of Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Zarko Obradovic, Dejan Radenkovic, Ivan Bauer and Milena Bicanin. We move to a decision on the proposals for decisions referred to in points 1, 2 and 3 of the agenda. Before we move to a decision on the motions for decisions referred to in points 1, 2 and 3 of the agenda, I remind you that on the basis of Article 105(2), paragraphs 12 and 13. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia decides on the choice of judges and president of the courts and the termination of the public prosecutor's office by a majority vote of all MPs. Before we move to the vote on the 1st item of the agenda, I remind you of the provisions of Article 201, paragraphs 3 and 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which reads: “In the course of the search at the meeting of the committee responsible and at the session of the National Assembly, the MP may dispute the proposal for the selection of individual officials in the position of the first member, where this dispute must be explicitly and reasoned. The National Assembly shall decide on a proposal for the selection of each disputed candidate individually and on a proposal to elect non-contested candidates to decide in general by a public vote. “ In line with these provisions, I would like to put to the vote a proposal to elect Bozidar Stankovic, Judge of the Court of Commerce in Nis and acting as President of the Business Court in Nis, whose proposal was challenged by MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom the abstentions are, amongst the totals of the 131 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly did not select Bozidar Stankovic as President of the Chamber of Commerce in Nis most of the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote a motion for a decision on the election of the President of the Court, without a disputed candidate, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 129 against – there is no one with abstention – from a total of 131 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, has adopted the motion for a decision. We're moving to agenda two. In accordance with the provisions of Article 201(3) and (4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, as far as the proposal for each of the contested candidates is concerned, is decided individually by the National Assembly. The proposal to elect non-contested candidates decides in general by a public vote. In line with these provisions, I would like to put to the vote the proposal to elect Mirjana Veljkovic, judge at the Court of Justice in Trstenik, whose proposal was challenged by MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic, as judges in Tristenik. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against one, none, abstentioned—one, of the total attendance of 132 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not select Mirjana Veljkovic as the judge of the General Court in Tristenik most of the votes of all MPs. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of judges who are first elected to the judge's office, without a disputed candidate, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 131 against – none, abstention – one, of the total attendance of 132 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, has adopted the motion for a decision. Allow me to congratulate on behalf of the MPs and on my behalf the elected functionholders of the election and wish them much success in their work. I put to the vote a motion for a decision on the termination of the office of attorney general in the High Prosecutor's Office of the King, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 132, v – no one, abstentioned – one. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, has adopted the motion for a decision. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude the third session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019.
