ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62465	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the fourth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that the session is attended by 67 MPs. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the adoption of the minutes and establishment of the agenda exists if a majority of the total number of MPs are present at the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 127 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly within the meaning of Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Zarko Obradovic, Dejan Radenkovic, Ivan Bauer, Milena Bicanin. We're moving on to the adoption of the minutes from the previous sessions. You were presented with records of the twenty-fourth and twenty-fifth special sessions of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th session and the minutes of the 12th, 13th and 14th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th session. As most of the total number of MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from those sessions. We're moving on to a decision. I am voting on the minutes of the twenty-fourth special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly, held on 18, 19, 20 and 21 June 2019. I conclude the vote: for – 129 against – there are no abstentions – there are no, of a total of 132 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the 20th Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly by majority vote. I am voting on the minutes of the 20th special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly, held on 10, 11, 12 and 15 July 2019. I conclude the vote: for – 131 against – there are no abstentions – there are no, of a total of 132 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the 20th Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. I am voting on the minutes of the 12th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly, held on 25, 26, 27 and 28 June and 2, 3, 4 and 8 July 2019. I conclude the vote: for – 129 against – there are no abstentions – there are no, of a total of 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the 12th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. I am voting on the minutes of the 13th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly, held on 8th, 9th and 10th July 2019. I conclude the vote: for – 132, there are no, abstentions – there are no, of a total of 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the minutes of the 13th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. I am voting on the minutes of session of the 14th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly, held on 15, 16, 17, 18, 19 and 22 July 2019. I conclude the vote: for – 133, no – there are no, with abstentions – there is no. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the minutes of the 14th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before the sitting agenda is established, pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 93. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on a proposal to put on the agenda for urgent action, proposals for supplementing the agenda and a proposal for a merger of discussions. The government has proposed that the draft Decision on granting consent in the Decision on Amendments and Supplements of the Financial Plan of the Republic of Pension and Disability Insurance Fund for 2019 be put on the agenda of the urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there are no, for – 133, against – abstentions – among the 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. National MP Nemanja Sarovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to determine the facts regarding the murder and political background of Zoran Djindjic's murder, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 15 December 2016. Does MP Nemanja Sarovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there are no abstentions for—one against—there are none, of the 137 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Nemanja Sarovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances regarding the pressures on state authorities and violations of the law during the elections for MPs in the National Assembly held in 2016, which submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. Does MP Nemanja Sarovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against those who are abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Bozidar Delic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on the rights of fighters and families of dead and missing fighters. Does the MP Bozidar Delic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Vjerica Radeta proposed that the agenda be completed by the meeting – Proposal for a Law amending the Family Law, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. Here you are, colleague Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62466	We, Serbian radicals, support the idea of the government of the Republic of Serbia on population policy, on care, on birth, but unfortunately it's just an idea. If you really wanted to do something, then you'd certainly be discussing the Family Law Amendment proposal that we've been proposing for over a year. We have only proposed this one member as an initiative, but this law really should suffer serious changes, and even to pass a whole new law, because if we really want to take care of family, about children, about increasing birth rate, then we have to regulate it in a much better way than it has been so far. Unfortunately, we learn from daily newspapers what inhuman conditions some children live in Serbia, children who have lost their parents, children who are without parental age, children who take care of younger brothers or sisters when they are seven or eight years old, about the house, about the old and sick grandfather or grandmother. So many sad and terrible stories that, if there were seriousness in this country, would not end up in the daily newspaper, would be taken into account at the level of local self-government. Of course, since they neither have a legal obligation nor have a human and moral obligation, it simply passes so by our, or by your government officials at the bar. From a republican level, too, nothing is done to reduce the rate of poor children, as you like to say for something else, to zero. You should do it here, not when your statistics say that in Serbia, 300,000 children are on the verge of poverty, that 300,000 children do not have a third meal, in a country that boasts about the surplus of the budget, which boasts of some investments, which boasts of some work done. Of course, let all these jobs be done, but 300,000 children that there is nothing to eat in the country of Serbia is a serious problem, it is a disaster that you don't really want to talk about, and therefore you don't want to open up a debate about changes to family law. We will insist on believing that, at least to the MPs, this very serious problem will come to your mind. We have to take care of every child, every child that fate has left without parents and in poverty as a society, as a state, as a local self-government, we have to take care of. No child should go outside Serbia, and that is why we have proposed these amendments to the Family Law laws, to ban the adoption of our children by some people abroad, who then turn them into white slavery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62467	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for nine of the Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Vjerica Radeta proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Selection of National MPs, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. Here you are, colleague Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62468	We Serbian radicals insist that all the problems related to elections, electoral laws, the work and operation of RIK, lead in the National Assembly, but not in the National Assembly building, not there to be brought into those small salons by Kukan, McAllister and I do not know who and all these exhausted European officials, who are traveling through Serbia briefing the MPs. No, we're not asking that, but we're asking that here in this room, in front of the public, we're talking about all the problems we have and that while it's time to stop the government of the Republic of Serbia from interfering in the work of the RIK, because it's the opposite of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the opposite of the law. If there are any problems in the Law on the selection of MPs, we should discuss them here. Our proposal has been for more than a year, so in time we started, we did not wait for this to happen before the elections, to return to the law a provision from the Constitution that every MP is free to make his mandate available to a political party whose list was elected as a MP. You don't want to do this and you just show that you're actually talking and you're doing something else, because here when you're discussing other things, you're talking about flyers every day, you're talking about new MP groups, you're talking about someone coming in here with a mandate on one list, and in the meantime, he's changed three parties and everything under the mouse walks that mandate like he brought it out of the house. You're all criticizing it, and when it comes to amending the law, then it doesn't occur to you to do something like that. If you have a complex of what the SRS is proposing to you, get the Government of the Republic of Serbia to propose it so we can discuss it and adopt it. We don't have that problem. It is important to us that the electoral process is in accordance with the law. It is important for us to finally form a monitoring committee in the National Assembly and to see and discuss here how much media, who and how it pushes. First of all, I mean the public so-called. public service financed by all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Gentlemen, you don't want to listen to Serbian radicals, you don't want to listen to someone who's smart, someone who's experienced, someone who, above all, is a friend of Serbia, but that's why you listen to all those who use the road or wind through Serbia. They can lecture you. They are not our friends, they have never been, especially not those fellows and other NGOs operating in Serbia, which they use to bring order to the state of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62469	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for nine. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. My colleague Jovanovic, you can't follow the Rules of Procedure as we determine the agenda. National MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – the draft law on repealing the Labour Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. Does MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. Does the People's Messenger Natasha Sp. Jovanovic wants a word? Here you go, colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62470	Article 38. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia regulates the acquisition of the right to citizenship under the law. In 2007, after the adoption of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia passed the law with over 200 votes, although the SRS was then, as it is now, the largest opposition party. We, above all, took care of the Serbs from Montenegro, from Republika Srpska, accepted that, with our amendment that we have submitted to this member of the law, the law would be passed in order to enable persecuted Serbs under Milo Djukanovic's regime, if they so wish and give a statement that they accept Serbia as their queen, the acquisition of citizenship, of course, and because of Serbs from Republika Srpska. We, Serbian radicals, hope and believe that in the foreseeable future it will be a single Serbian state, and so far more than 50,000 requests have been filed from Republika Srpska to obtain the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia. But what happened? And if we insisted that this particular member of the law look like this, it turned out in practice that Serbs for administrative reasons are making it impossible for them to gain citizenship within a reasonable time. Now the political circumstances have changed so much. In the past ten years, terror over Serbs in Montenegro has grown bigger. So that this member of the law should be changed as we propose, in the view of allowing, if one who submits a request to the competent unit of the Ministry of Interior or the Consulate to whom he addresses, along with the documentation submitted, to make such a statement as the law provides or has the right based on the conclusion of a marriage with a Serbian citizen or on the basis of the origin of one of the parents to get citizenship within six months, i.e. to the competent state authority, which is the Ministry of Interior, that decision shall be made within six months. This is how Serbs from Republika Srpska and Montenegro, and especially those from Montenegro, who are burning under their feet, because some have to flee and shelter themselves and their families, get fired under Mil's regime, write out children from schools, threaten, blackmail, they have to wait from one year and a half to two years, and if they have properly submitted their request for the interior ministry to decide on obtaining their citizenship. If you've listened to me, and you haven't, because there's a constant jam and a noise in the hall, a chatter, I don't know how you can decide, when Arsic now says he's putting this to a vote, when you haven't even heard what's being said here. You, by automatism, vote like robots, like you're chipped, and you don't listen to MPs and these reasonable SRS proposals. In the hall, he only listened to the chairman, Deputy Secretary Marinkovic and when I must be named and Vice President Djordja Milicevic and Mrs Jadranka Jovanovic. No one else listened to what I was saying and what reasons were there to help our countrymen outside Serbia. There's so much about you and your concern for Serbs outside Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62471	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned, for nine, none of the 141 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Ruzica Nikolic suggested that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the transplantation of human organs, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. Does the MP, Rose Nikolic, want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for two, against—no one, with abstention, has a total of 141 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Filip Stojanovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Border Control, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. Here you go, colleague Stojanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62472	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted a bill on amendments to the Law on Border Control and I demand that it be included in today's session agenda. All know that the most important characteristics of each country are its internationally recognised borders that separate it from other countries, or its neighbours. The state of Serbia has defined and internationally recognised borders towards its neighbours. The Serbian state's borders towards its southern neighbour, or Albania, have been defined by UN Security Council Resolution 1244. Unfortunately, Serbia is one of the few countries that has violently kidnapped part of the territory by 19 NATO pact states, as well as some other states that want to legalise the state of occupation and to declare the borders of the AP of Kosovo and Metohija towards the rest of Serbia as international borders. We do not blame the current regime for the situation in which Kosovo and Metohija were found, but we blame it for something else. Namely, the leading authorities of the Republic of Serbia must constantly insist on Resolution 1244, which guarantees the integrity of the state territory of the Republic of Serbia. But so far, we have not seen this regime insist on Resolution 1244 and we find that inadmissible. I remind you that according to that resolution, Serbia has the right to distribute thousands of members of security at the border towards Albania. As a man who was born in Kosovo and Metohija, who spent his entire life down there, I will always ask all regimes to insist on respecting Resolution 1244. This resolution guarantees the integrity of the territory of the Republic of Serbia and does not speak of any division or demarcation. It is the attitude of all Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija. This team before the international circumstances slowly change in our favour and I am convinced that we will not wait long for the day when Kosovo and Metohija will be re-integrated with the rest of the Republic of Serbia. There should therefore be no compromise on state territory, while all other topics can be discussed with Albanians. As you can see, the Republic of Croatia has also shown hidden aspirations towards the part of our territory, which is located on the left bank of the Danube, the regime must be uncompromised in this matter, not agreeing to any negotiations or agreements on this topic. That is why I believe that by adopting such a law, which I have proposed, it will create clear assumptions and necessity as soon as possible to put the occupied part of our territory under our full control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62473	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for - nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has a total of 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Tomislav Ljubenović, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Financial Support for the Family with Children, which submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. Here you go, colleague Ljubenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62474	Thank you, Chairman. I submitted a bill amending and supplementing the law on financial support for the family with children. Financial support to families with children in terms of the exercise of rights under this law would help improve conditions for meeting the basic needs of children in families with children who are unable to achieve on their own, and the number of such families is increasing. The adoption of the proposed amendments and additions would put an outside force of the discriminatory provisions of the applicable laws, which are defined as having the right to a child's parental allowance only for the first, second, third and fourth children. Every child, regardless of the order of birth, must be treated equally with all the laws of the Republic of Serbia. The extension of the period of payment of the parental allowance for a third child until the age of 18, instead of the 10 years of life, for the fourth child to 18 years of life, instead of the 10 years of life so far, and for the fifth and the next child for whom no parental allowance could be obtained by the age of 18 would provide partial financial security to families with more children in the way the SRS proposes these amendments and additions to the Financial Support Act to the family with children. The adoption of these changes and additions would create basic conditions for encouraging the birth of more children and for the financial empowerment of families with children, which would motivate parents to stay in Serbia, to stop the trend of mass departure from Serbia. We are witnessing that every day families leave southern Serbia from the Jablani County, Toplici County, Pirotski. Young people leave, young married couples with small children. Those who leave will no longer return, but all efforts should be made to keep those who are there. Demographic problems are great, and one of the largest is an insufficient number of newborn children. The number of newborns is much lower than the number of deceased, leading to negative economic growth. When we add this to the mass departure of young and middle-aged people, it is clear that the government would have to react urgently if the situation wanted to be improved. If it continues to go deaf about our proposals, it means that the authorities do not care what Serbia's future will be. Representatives of the government at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia insist on ignoring SRS proposals, but we will be persistent and will not give up the bill that can affect the improvement of certain areas of life, in this case in the area of childcare, more specifically financial support for families with children. This proposal for change and addition is comprehensive and accurate in the part in which children's and parental supplements are regulated. The adoption of these amendments, proposed by the SRS, would put an outside force of the discriminatory provision of the applicable law, which defined that the right to children's and parental allowances would be granted only for the first, second, third and fourth children. Every child, regardless of the order of birth, must be treated equally with all the legal regulations of the Republic of Serbia. Representatives of the government of the Republic of Serbia should think carefully about spending money from the Republic's budget in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62475	I thank my colleague Ljubenović. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dubravko Bojic suggested that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on psychoactive controlled substances, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. Does MP Dubravko Bojic want a word? Yeah. ) Here you go, colleague Boyic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62476	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, given the importance of the topic and the topic of topic which the Law on psychoactive controlled substances deals with, I sincerely expect to be supportive of this proposal, because it is not about politics or ideology, it is about human health, and it must be not only the privilege and greatest value of every society and individual, but also its trademark. How to fight this evil, the SRS believes that all together as a system, as a society, we can and must do much more, because if we just rely on the police, the BIU and the prosecution, the results of this fight will be inconclusive. I suggest that on some television channel with a national frequency on a regular basis we introduce a show to talk about this galloping monster of the 21st century. Education is the most effective means and medicine. The constant repetition, especially of the most vulnerable group, which is the school population, that not using drugs is not weaker but stronger. I'd add, here and an example of some countries that are now addicting into TV shows, so when young people see what a man looks like and what drugs have led him to, at least a little bit will be imagined before they decide to take such a step. The state doesn't do well, nor does it work well enough to fight this evil. When they catch a drug dealer, instead of punishing him as an attempt at murder, they sneez him with some kind of electronic ankle, and he, along with all his warm apartment jewelry, co-ordinates and manages the business, everything he's done before, except he's not on the ground. As far as the drug routes are concerned, I must point out that our country is twice as interesting both as a user and as a transit area. I would add here that a music festival that is planned to be a music festival, unfortunately, is becoming a drug festival more and more, and the town of Novi Sad is a drug site. You all know I'm talking about Exit. There were also arrests, and there were drug withdrawals, unfortunately, there were also consequences with a tragic outcome. The case of the Paracino boy who fell with the troubles of the fortress or last year the Greek man who OD'd himself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62477	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote: for -18, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Despotovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. Here's your colleague, Despotovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62478	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, how does Serbia today relate to agriculture and to the agricultural producer? For decades back, Serbia has been saying that agriculture is our strategic chance, but unfortunately there is nothing. All the authorities that came and went, brought and adopted agricultural development strategies, but those that had been brought in could not live, and those that were after them were nothing but a wish. While there is no industry in Serbia today, and unfortunately there is no agriculture either, because slowly and surely the rural part of Serbia is extinct, because statistics say that there are more than 1000 villages, while 200 inhabited places have no person under the age of 20. Our agricultural producer is 60 years of age and older. In last year, Serbia exported only 300 tonnes of baby buffet, unlike before the former SFRY fell apart when 100 times more of this red meat was exported at the time. Then the pig's in tova today is at least since 1995. The question arises - can Serbia be competitive on the world market and has a chance to regain export reputation? Of course there is. It must make an effort and meet the standards of marketable product, quantity and quality. Serbia has extremely good geographical and climate characteristics, where the country is of quality somewhere at the very top of European countries, so it is also suitable for fruits, vegetables and warfare in the regions. The main problem of our agricultural producers is that our work and effort often run out of results, because this effort and effort must be supported by both knowledge and subsidies, both professional staff and state, in order to achieve the desired profit. As subsidies in regulated countries range from 500 euros to 900 euros per hectare, Serbia unfortunately allocates 35 euros per hectare. The basic problem of this kind of Serbia is that the agricultural producer looks into the sky, praying to God that the year is born and lives in suspense as well as at what price or blackmail to sell his product. That is why Serbian agriculture needs a huge turn in the direction of modern world agricultural products and producers. I don't think it's too late. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62479	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote: for -14, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Sreto Peric suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – the draft law on repealing the law on enforcement and security, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. Does National Envoy Sreto Peric want a word? Here you go, colleague Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62480	If an individual or a group, whether formal or informal, and it is certainly a formal parliamentary group, changes its position for the sake of better interest of Serbian citizens, it is completely understandable, and if it changes it against the interests of Serbian citizens, we do not understand it. What am I saying this for? In the ruling majority, there are our colleagues who, just like us now, presented very good arguments for not accepting the law on enforcement and security. What happened in the meantime that colleagues changed their minds and is not in the interest of Serbian citizens? This law introduces one institution that has been placed between debtors and creditors. Serbian radicals certainly are not against the realization of the trustee's interest. On the contrary, we want every one of his obligations to be at peace in the way he has taken them. Sometimes for objective reasons, it is not possible, and when an individual in Serbia cannot settle his obligations for objective reasons, then the perpetrators enter the scene. You see, the state's primary interest is 214 perpetrators plus their three deputies and it's estimated that they have about 2,000 employees, but only 3,000 real estate owners in the previous year whose assets were sold. That's where the property was sold, and there are many citizens of Serbia who have been damaged by disproportionate behavior but by arrogant behaviour, I would say private perpetrators. In Serbia, is it executive, does the legislative authority not have enough confidence in the judicial authorities, or in the judicial system, so it has to introduce private entrepreneurs to do the job of the one who has to do the court. E, but one occasion Mrs. Nela Kuburovic, the justice minister said the 2011 justice system was not effective and then the state had to intervene by introducing private perpetrators. Here counts how many private contractors in the budget of the Republic of Serbia's taxes they have earned, I would say sometimes taken from citizens of Serbia, so the figure mentioned is five billion dinars. Which is why we're doing this is not clear to us, which is why we've submitted the draft law on non-compliance with the law on enforcement and security, and when we saw that you didn't accept it, we've made a whole new draft law on enforcement and security where we wanted to put into an equal position both creditors and debtors. The epochal paper adopted by the assembly majority on July 26, 2019, as amendments and additions to the Law on Implementation and Security, refers to the fact that the perpetrators can no longer take place on weekends from 7 a.m. to 22 p.m. in the evening of execution.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62481	Thank you, colleague Perich. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 13 against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Djordje Milicevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 30 September 2019. Does MP Gjorge Milicevic want a word? Here you go, colleague Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62482	Thank you, Mr. Aric. First, we must agree with the finding we heard from MPs of the position and from MPs of the main opposition group, that the current Rules of Procedure on Labour have a lot of open questions, and that when we talk about the perspective in the perception of the adoption of the new Rules of Procedure on Labour, all issues should be considered. But the creation of a new Rules of Procedure and that is where we agree with the President of the National Assembly, must not and cannot reflect the current political moment. It is not good for every parliamentary majority to adopt its Rules of Procedure. The current Rules of Procedure on Labour did not adopt this ruling coalition, but it is very interesting that most of the criticism and the greatest number of criticisms and abuses when we talk about the Rules of Procedure on Labour come from the ranks of that part of the opposition which has very clearly and accurately defined all the provisions of the current Rules of Procedure on Labour. Through the changes and additions we've started, whose initiative we're starting, we're pointing to only one thing, we consider a burning question. In fact, the mandate, and as MPs, we have been given the mandate and trust of citizens to do one responsible and serious job, to discuss in the Parliament which is the voice of the people how to reach the best quality legal solutions that will be in the best interest of the citizens of Serbia. So citizens expect us to have a responsible and serious approach to the work for which we have taken responsibility. You know, Serbian citizens, whether they work in public or in the state sector, if they don't show up at work and if they don't justify their absence, it certainly reflects their material status. Excuse me, and we are citizens of Serbia and we must and should share the fate of Serbian citizens. Very often we have heard here from a representative of a part of the opposition, who does not want to participate in parliament's work, boycott is their legitimate political means, we believe that the boycott is a reflection of the impotence and the lossful move, because you do not have the opportunity to show your strength in parliament through a reasoned debate, then you define yourself as a political boycottist flossule, but it is their legitimate means. We often heard from them that they didn't need parliamentary salaries, but we didn't hear at any time that anyone in the opposition gave up parliamentary salaries, gave up travel, gave up travel expenses. We do not want to discipline anyone in this way absolutely, we do not want to usurp, we do not want to take away any right of any MP, we just want to impose one responsibility and seriousness in the work of parliament to preserve first and foremost the dignity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62483	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 13 against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Djordje Milicevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments to the Law on the National Assembly, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 30 September 2019. Does MP Djordje Milicevic want a word? Here you go, colleague Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62484	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Mr Arsic, correct me if I am wrong, but I think that at this point in Parliament we have 14 parliamentary groups, that we have 22 independent MPs, we don't know for ourselves how many political parties, but what we have in essence are political parties that didn't participate in the 2016 parliamentary elections. Correct me if I am wrong, but at one point, I mean right before the presidential elections, we didn't even know how many parliamentary groups we had, because we didn't know if some fellow Members and fellow MPs who had previously gone to one, another, third parliamentary group had found any fourth or fifth parliamentary groups. So it's enough to have money, buy a party, find two MPs, and you have a party that didn't participate in the elections, you have MPs who belong to that party, who are called to belong to that party, and in two different parliamentary groups, which is extremely unacceptable. All that, I would say, was the result of the 2003 DOS's release when, let the senior MPs of the IC, but during that period there were 308 MPs in parliament's hall. It created one legal anarchy and a space for abuse. Political stability is a prerequisite for any further progress Serbia has made. Political stability implies that we must address one of the key issues, which is how to prevent the mandate of MPs after parliamentary elections from being subject to political trade. You know, it's a violation of the electoral will of the citizens. The question arises, whether the senior election will is citizens or whether it is older ownership of the mandate. We've heard from one part of the opposition, I don't think, of course, of colleagues from the SRS, one part of the opposition that's not in the O.R. today, that through the proposal we're proposing these changes and complementing the ignorant, that we don't know the constitution. No problem, we are ignorant, and they have proposed electoral legislation that has not changed since they proposed it, and today this same electoral legislation does not suit them, today demand conditions, requirements, set up a certain ultimatum and boycott parliamentary elections that are being conducted under the electoral legislation that they have adopted. Of course, we know the Constitution, of course we know the electoral legislation, of course we respect the right of pre-election coalitions, if within the pre-election coalition some political option creates the possibility of having its own parliamentary club, of course we respect that right. We also respect what is guaranteed by the Constitution, although we emotionally disagree, which is that the mandate belongs to the MP. Accordingly, we tried to work through the internal organisation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia more precisely through Article 30. We try to resolve the question that the mandate of the MPs cannot and should not be the subject of political trade after the parliamentary elections. We talked to the representatives of the ministry, the state administration and the local self-government, they think at this point, how much I realized that we needed to make some more changes and complements to solve this issue in general. We will continue these talks in the next period of time and, accordingly, prepare the next set of legislative proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62485	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 28, against – 28. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Nikola Savic suggested that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on textbooks, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. Does MP Nikola Savic want a word? (Yes) The word is Nikola Savic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62486	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have asked for the agenda of this Assembly to be entered into a point that speaks of amending and supplementing the Law on textbooks. In fact, it's an extremely important area, but unfortunately this area isn't properly arranged here yet, not to say a more difficult word. We have a situation today that textbooks write each or almost everyone, that everyone makes their choice, simply, these are things they can't and can't afford. This is especially true when it comes to textbooks that treat and process national history and national culture, although in other textbooks there are many material errors, but most important are these two items relating to national history and national culture. It's clear to me that every regime, and it's nothing new, is trying to get in all the textbooks where it's possible to pull the ideological shade that it represents and it's nothing controversial, it's in all the countries, in all the regimes, but here with this regime they don't even do it, they're not trying to get some ideological shade in here, but simply as if they've left this thing to the verse. Let's just say, in that communist time, we the elderly certainly, who have learned by these textbooks and by that teaching plan and program, we certainly remember that we also know that this ideological shade was represented and that it was significantly dulled. However, these textbooks, if except for this item relating to this ideological nuance, these textbooks had good quality and consumption, i.e. students and students of these textbooks are not crushed by these textbooks, but rather, they are elevated because textbooks were written by educated, professional and competent people. Today the situation is completely reversed. Our ancestors were both illiterate and without textbooks and without any literacy, able to transfer from knee to knee, generations of our history all the most important events of our history and of our culture, and this has been preserved to this day. However, today, when information technologies have reached a level whose witnesses all appear to be a paradox, there is literally a danger of losing such a thing. Here, back a few years ago, let's say, the people of the widest circle of the Serbian citizens knew nothing much about the battles of Kosharam, the battles of Paštrik and these glorious epics of our army, the Serbian Army in opposing NATO aggression. Fortunately, there's something slowly happening, but we just have to make sure it's more represented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62487	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for nine. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Nikola Savic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments and additions to the Road Safety Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 28 March 2019. Does MP Nikola Savic want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62488	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, unlike the law I've explained for a little while, this law is about pure pragmatism. Simply, there is uncertainty in a certain member of the law, and that member of the law refers to traffic regulation at intersections, i.e. it speaks of who has the right to the championship. It is precisely because of some indetermination in this law that there is a situation where, after a car accident, it is not clear and precise and it is definitely possible to determine who is the winemaker of a car accident. Lawyers, law experts, treat this matter in one way, traffic experts treat it in another way, so that there is a conflict of opinion and often disputes over who caused the accident lasts for several years. This can simply be solved in a simple way, by changing only a few provisions of this law, where you will clearly and precisely know who has the championship, especially when it comes to circular flows and some major intersections across our cities. I therefore appeal to the ruling majority to put on the agenda a proposal for this law, because it is a technical matter that causes major problems, and for this ruling majority it is no problem for only some items in the law to be amended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62489	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—eight against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Miroslav Stankovic Đuričić, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda to the point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Biomedical Aided Insemination, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 14 March 2019. Does MP Miroslava Stankovic Đuricic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Alexander Seselj, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by a draft law on the enforcement of the security procedure, which was submitted to the National Assembly by 22 MPs of the SRS parliamentary group, on 17 September 2019. Does MP Miroslava Stankovic Đuricic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Miladin Ševarlic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda – a proposal for a declaration on genetically modified organisms and products, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 5 May 2017. Does MP Miladin Ševarlic want a word? (Yes) The word is Miladin Ševarlic. Here you go, colleague Chevarlich.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62490	Thank you very much. Dear citizens, for three and a half years I have been trying to fight at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to adopt a declaration against genetically modified organisms. Although more than 7,000 council members in 136 municipalities and cities in Serbia or over 80% of the total number of municipalities and cities in central Serbia and Vojvodina unanimously adopted the text of the declaration against GMOs, the National Assembly has deafened and no assembly of municipalities and the city has so far annulled that declaration. If you want to ensure the production of genetically modified soybean, it is enough to make only one decision to ban imports and the transport of pesticides based on glyphosate, because without it the production of genetically modified soybeans is not possible. Why don't we do it? Who are we protecting? Are we protecting importers of genetically modified seeds? Are we protecting farmers who produce genetically modified soybeans? Do you know that in the central province where the most represented is the breeding of genetically modified soybeans in Argentina, Santa Fe, two to four times the rate of cancer? Do you know that the medical journal "Volume-Sanite Messenger" of the Belgrade Military Academy has published several works on pesticide poisoning based on gliphosate with fatal outcome and what are all the consequences? Do you know that glyphosate accumulates in soil and water, that it is not biodegradable, that reduces the availability of plants by 50% to 70% of iron, zinc, etc. in soybeans and other products? Therefore, I see no reason why the National Assembly does not adopt a declaration against cultivation, processing, the transport of genetically modified organisms to the team before yesterday I showed data that around 95% of the import contingents are not being treated at all, or controlled by the presence of GMOs. This means that we are practically not protected at all in terms of imports, although there is a law that prohibits imports, production, processing and transport of genetically modified organisms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62491	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marijan Risticevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to identify the facts and circumstances related to the business of cable operators, the broadcasting of cross-border channels, the broadcasting of domestic advertising in content of cross-border channels and other irregularities related to electronic media and cable operators controlled by Dragan Gilas, Dragan Šolak and David Petreus, who submitted to the National Assembly on 12 April 2019. Does MP Marian Risticevic want a word? Yeah. A colleague of Rističević's, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62492	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this David Petreus, former head of the CIA and commander of the military forces in Afghanistan sold his stake to the BS Partners for 2.6 billion euros. For 2.6 billion euros, United Group was sold, consisting mainly of SBB, Total and cross-border TV, Sports clubs, N1, New S, the Darekt Media, which was Gilas's firm, etc. Ladies and gentlemen, N1, and now Nova S is becoming a state in the country. This is the imitation of that state's passport. The head of the state is Yugoslavia Ćosic. He himself said that his television was registered in Luxembourg. His TV and N1 TV and sports clubs don't pay, they're not registered to APR, they're not registered as electronic media at REM, they don't pay any obligations to REM, RATL, Sokoya. They don't pay taxes. Mr. Arsic, you talk very often about finance, N1 television has no PIB, no tax number. Then how does the N1 television even pay its dues if it doesn't have a tax number? How does he pay his wages, how he pays his contributions, how does VAT pay? How does VAT pay for commercials? He obviously doesn't pay anything. These cross-border TVs that pay nothing, SBB gets money. The domestic channels that settle all these obligations don't get money from the SBB. This is how the subscription is pumped, and this is a system of about 500m euros. In a region of one million and a half subscribers, 900,000 are in Serbia. In this way, 500m euros are pumped from the system to fake cross-border channels and fictitious firms in Luxembourg, Malta, Switzerland, etc. Sam Solak who and Gilas has this business boasted, and now you see where these 619m euros Gilas has earned from. He boasted that he was not a taxpayer in Serbia, but in Switzerland. His business is in Serbia, he doesn't pay anything here, and he's supposed to be a taxpayer in Switzerland. So, it's about the obvious steaming and the whole system is sold for 2.6m euros. So REM doesn't do his job. If he did his job, he would have ordered the cable operator to turn off the channels connected to him and not registered with REM as a media service provider. This is not happening, and that is why I am asking that a survey committee be formed, to deal in detail with the financial side of these speculations worth hundreds of millions of euros. Our people have the right to know, because they're paying a subscription to the SBB and in this way they're taking part reluctantly in the wealth of the School, Gilas. Let me remind you that Solak is flying a 55m-euro plane. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62493	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 15, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Tatjana Macura proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to determine the legality of SNS donations for the 2017 presidential election campaign, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 December 2017. The word is from a colleague of Macura's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62494	Thank you, Chairman. Dear citizens of Serbia, today I will ask my fellow MPs for support to put my proposal on the agenda for the Serbian Assembly to educate the polling board to examine donations in the presidential campaign that took place in 2017, when a little less than 7,000 citizens paid almost identical amounts of 40,000 dinars at the expense of the SNS. Serbian citizens should know that this was not some new phenomenon during the 2017 presidential elections, that this situation has happened before, that we have recorded situations and reactions by the Anti-Corruption Agency both in 2012 and in 2014. In the midst of what may be most interesting today for the citizens of Serbia, which is whether part of the opposition will decide whether to participate in the elections or not, and in the midst of what is currently happening in Serbia, which is the talks between the authorities and the opposition. At times, it was by means of NGOs when these talks ran at the Faculty of Political Sciences, and sometimes they still happen with representatives of the European Parliament. As for the party of modern Serbia and myself personally, it seems to us that funding political entities in Serbia is one of the burning problems that we should solve to improve electoral circumstances. One of these typical examples is that, on the accounts of political organisations, in the framework of political campaigns, therefore within some election cycles, regardless of whether it is periods before 2017 or in particular in this case that I am talking about, which I have analysed. So this is one of the burning problems, given that we don't know how this money was found in citizens' accounts and how they were able to single out 40,000 dinars at all and to pay in support of the ruling party, since a good part of these payments comes from people who are users of this country's social assistance, and that, by simple analysis, we can see that even five months of income from these citizens could not cover one individual donation. So the question arises, where does it lead to the origin of the money that is pumped into a single campaign. This problem should be solved not only because of the campaign that is behind us, but also because we are going to meet the elections that are scheduled to take place at all levels in 2020, in spring. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62495	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for two against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marijan Risticevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the declaration of the fake state of Kosovo, the impact that the International Court of Justice had on this, and the responsibility of former Foreign Minister Vuk Jeremic, who submitted to the National Assembly on 27 March 2028. Does MP Marian Risticevic want a word? Here's a colleague of Rističević's.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62496	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Vuk Jeremic, known as the Wolf descendant, famous descendant of Murat the age of Pozderac, or descendant of the famous Murat the age of Pozderac, all of you could hear it with Mr. Rocen boasted that he had reached the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. Afterwards, the D.A.'s office remained silent. It was an anti-state operation. That state community had its own borders, it had its own territory, it had its own organs, and no matter what it was as complex, some kind of state, but it was. The prosecution remained immeasurable to the fact that the infamous descendant of the famous Murat, the age of Pozderac, praised himself for destroying a country. To remind you of his involvement in the cover-up of the case killed two soldiers on Topcider. It's also never been solved. How did he, as a civilian soldier, or civilian person, find out about the murder before the commander-in-chief, whose advisor was a soldier? There is a lot of controversy about Vuk Jeremic, and his greatest participation in the construction of the false state of KIM. He asked for the International Court of Justice's opinion, knowing in advance that judges came from countries that have recognised KIM. He has in a certain way legalized the International Court of Justice's opinion of the false state of KiM, and today all the scepters, from Thaci and beyond, are calling for the opinion of the International Court of Justice, which has nothing to do with the infamous descendant of the famous Murat age of Pozderac. That's why I'm asking to form a survey committee and examine the functioning of this pest called Vuk Jeremic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62497	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 15, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marijan Risticevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's survey committee works to confirm the facts and circumstances related to the visits of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia of certain organisations and individuals, which submitted to the National Assembly on 27 March 2018. Here's a colleague of Rističević's.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62498	Today, this fake cross-border television, the Luxembourg state in the state of New Belgrade, defends and protects the character and work of Boško "Lojtic Žutić", Boška Obradovica and the extremist organisation "Dveri". The extremist organisation Dveri, led by Bosko Obradovic, has made these habits by hanging out with Ivan Pernar, the grandson of Mr Pernar, who in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia asked how much is Serbian blood? Also, Mr. Obradovic and his extremist organisation Dveri associated with Bulgaria's extreme "Ataka" organisation, which advocates attaching Serbian territories to Bulgaria, i.e. to create a large Bulgaria at the expense of the Serbian state and Serbian territories. Sam Bosko Obradovic and his organisation have grown into an extremist organisation and have transferred their behaviour to "the union of thieves, frauds and frauds" they call "the Alliance for Serbia". It's an alliance against Serbia, of course. It is funded by the Republic of Serbia. The money is pumping out, and Bosko Obradovic complains these days that someone cashed out the bills and kept the money for himself, and otherwise it was earlier, showing evidence several times, that money was pumped into entrepreneurial stores and ended up in the pockets of Boško Obradovic himself. Thus, money from the budget is intended to finance parliamentary political parties that are not present here, ends up in extreme organisations and pockets of individuals who commit violence on Belgrade streets. Just before, a colleague asked for SNS payments from donors, natural persons. It wouldn't be strange if it weren't for a person who could say something about payments, not the parties of modern Serbia, but the previous parties, or I don't know which, which was, in fact, an NGO called DJB -- that's enough. "A lot of them," as far as I can see. The organization paid hundreds of thousands of dinars to its members, including a colleague. ‘clicking’. So, for fictitious jobs, so when someone asks for the financing of political parties, let's deal with this NGO and see how the members of that organisation's budget for the fictitious business "clicking", and then some members of the newly created Modern Serb Party have passed on votes from that association, and then let them ask how the regular political parties are financed, I have no objection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62499	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for -17, against - no one, with abstentions, has, of a total of 141 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Aleksandar Stevanovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - a bill amending the Law on Public Order and Peace, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 October 2018. Does MP Aleksandar Stevanovic want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: for - no one, against - no one, abstention - no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Vladimir Djuric suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - the draft law amending the Law on the financing of political activities, submitted in the National Assembly by MPs Vladimir Djuric, Tatjana Macura, Aleksandar Stevanović, Ljupka Mihajlovski and Nemanja Radojevic, 23 September 2019. Does MP Vladimir Djuric want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: for - no one, against - no one, abstention - no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Djordje Komlenski suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - a proposal for a decision on the education of the NATO Pact's committee to investigate and determine the number of victims of aggression in 1999, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Djordje Komlenski, Marijan Risticevic, Ana Karadzic and Bojan Torbica on 10 May 2019. Does MP George Komlensky want a word? (Yes) Here you go, colleague Komlenski.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62500	Thank you, Chairman. Comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen, 20 years have passed since NATO's criminal aggression against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, and thus the Republic of Serbia. What we've suggested is something that needs to prevent anyone from manipulating the number of victims that occurred during this criminal aggression. The proposal is to make up an accurate, verifiable and complete list of all those who have lost their lives and all those who have been wounded, both members of the Yugoslav Army, members of the MUP and civilians. I believe that this is the least that we as a parliament, taught by the experience of today challenging the number of Serbian victims both in World War I and in World War II, and in the Jasenovac camp, can do, looking at an ugly experience, an entirely inappropriate attitude towards the victims of such events. That is why I propose that this commission be formed, that the Assembly make a decision and, once and for all, this high house determines the exact and complete list of all victims of NATO aggression, in order to prevent any victim from being forgotten. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62501	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote: for -18, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic, based on Article 92(2) and Article 157(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to carry out: 1st Joint Principle Search on: Proposal for a Law on Postal Services, submitted by the Government, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Acts of the World Postal Union, which was submitted by the Government, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Information Security, which was submitted by the Government; 2nd Joint Search on: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the General Safety of Products, which was submitted by the Government and the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Exporting and Importing of Double Purpose Goods, which was submitted by the Government. Does MP Aleksandar Martinovic want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: for -128, five of them did not vote, out of 133. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. Since we have come to the conclusion of the proposal for the agenda for an emergency session of the act, proposals for supplementing the proposed agenda and the proposal for a merger of the debate, pursuant to Article 93(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote a draft agenda in general. I conclude the vote: for - 128, against - no one, abstentioned - has, of the total 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has, by majority, established the agenda of the Fourth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019, in general. I ask the Service to prepare the consolidated text of the agenda. Dn e v n i r e d: 1. Proposal for a postal service law submitted by the Government; 2. Proposal for a law on the validation of acts of the World Postal Federation, which was submitted by the Government; 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Information Security Act, which was submitted by the Government; 4. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the General Product Safety Act, which was submitted by the Government; 5. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Export and Import Act of dual-use goods submitted by the Government; 6. Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Serbian Progressive Party parliamentary group; 7. Proposal for a decision to give consent to the Decision amending and supplementing the Finance Plan of the Republic Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund for 2019, which was submitted by the Government. We are going to work on the established agenda of the session. In accordance with Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that they have been invited to attend: Dr Rasim Ljajic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications, Zoran Djordjevic, Minister of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs, with associates. A unanimous decision by the National Assembly to carry out a joint principled search on proposals for legislation from the agenda by point. 1, 2 and 3, and before the opening of the joint principled search, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 157(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principle search on: a bill on postal services submitted by the Government, a draft law on the validation of acts of the World Postal Federation, which was submitted by the Government, a draft law on amendments and additions to the Information Security Act, which was submitted by the Government. Do the government's representatives want a word? The word is made by Minister Zoran Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62502	Dear Members, ladies and gentlemen, you have before you the proposal for a Law on Postage Services, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Act of the World Postal Union, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Information Security, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on the Change of Product Security and the Amendments to the Law on Export and Import of Double Purpose. In short, I'll tell you what the drafts of these laws, i.e. amendments and additions to the law, look like. As regards the proposal for a postal service law, the need to amend the existing law, which was adopted in 2005, and amended and amended in 2010 and 2014, was conditioned by Serbia's obligation to comply with EU directives in accordance with Chapter 3 - the right to business and freedom to provide services, as well as the fact that the development of the postal services market is accelerated. Postal traffic has always played a specific and significant economic role, but with the expansion of e-commerce, postal services are becoming an even more important link in the development of the economy. The development of e-commerce has significantly contributed to changes in postal traffic on the global scale, as well as in Serbia, since the number of written shipments is dropping, and there is an extremely significant increase in the number of packages delivered through express and courier services. This means that commercial services record significantly higher growth compared to traditional postal services. The existing legal solutions cannot follow the requirements of the postal services market, which characterize the emergence of the growing and variable requirements of users and the growing number of new postal operators in the part of commercial postal services, leading to an increase in consumer and operator risks. The key paper of the law refers to greater orientation towards the user in terms of greater user safety and higher quality of postal services. The bill stipulates the obligation of a postal operator to make identification of package senders when receiving the package using a personal photo ID, such as ID card, passport or other documents. Also, the operator is given the right to open a consignment or package in the presence of the sender if there is any doubt that there is a prohibited content in the consignment. In the current postal service law, there was no possibility of a postal operator identifying who was sending the package or opening the package. This is because the 2005 legal solution misread constitutional provision on the non-violence and secrecy of the letter and other means of communication, Article 41, which, instead of referring only to written correspondence, is extended to all postal shipments. Couriers who took mail packages with goods from sellers had no legal basis to look for IDs, so traders reported themselves under false names and false addresses, and some were even instructions and addresses of police stations, law offices or mail. That's why illegal street sales moved to the Internet, because market inspectors are almost impossible to trace online traders. Thanks to the amendments to the law, market inspectors and other competent authorities will receive information from postal inspectors that will have the right names and addresses of the consignors. The state's organised fight against the grey economy over the internet came at the right time, as it is only following the expansion of e-commerce in Serbia, so it is very important that citizens gain confidence in this kind of purchase. The draft law reduces the time limit within which the operator is obliged to internally respond to the customer's 30-to-eight-day advertising. This provision complies with the applicable Consumer Protection Act. When it comes to international traffic, the deadline for responding to advertising remains the same – 60 days, as the World Postal Union acts require it. According to the new law, the Regulatory Agency for Electronic Communications and Postal Services will intervene in the extrajudicial settlement of disputes between postal service users and postal operators, as this role of the regulatory body has proved to be very effective. This reduces time and avoids the costs incurred by the launch of long-term and expensive court disputes. Regardless of this possibility, postal service users and operators certainly have the right to dispute. The bill stipulates that the post office, as the current and sole provider of universal postal services throughout Serbia, adapts access, or entry into postal network facilities, as well as postal terminals to the needs of disabled persons. In this way, that category of users shall be allowed to exercise, without discrimination, their rights relating to postal services. In line with the requirements of the European Directives, there is a gradual liberalisation of the postal services market. This process is about gradually reducing the volume of mail in providing universal postal services and enabling other postal operators to provide this type of service. Namely, the bill provides the possibility that other postal operators may also perform a universal postal service throughout the territory or part of the territory, but provided that they have a postal network. Post operators who do not have a postal network can perform a universal postal service by accessing the mail network if they meet certain conditions. The universal postal service is a service of general interest which, under the law, only the Post Office is obliged to provide under the same conditions for all citizens in the whole territory of Serbia and at the same price, whether it is worth it or not. This service is provided at significantly lower prices than market prices, in order to make them accessible to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia and in doing so they have an obligation to deliver a package, a court letter or a simple letter to at least once a week to citizens living in a difficultly accessible part of our country, regardless of what is not worth it. Although it has been in principle possible for other postal operators to provide universal postal services so far, no one has decided on this move, because it was not worth it, precisely for the reasons mentioned above. The bill ensures the sustainability of the universal postal service, given its social and social role. Moreover, the universal postal service is important for every country and not for its internal, but for international traffic. The service covered by the market liberalisation process and the reserved service which is part of the universal postal service... This service has so far referred to all shipments of up to 100 grams, and the new legal proposal will reduce the limit to 50 grams. The best illustration of the importance of the reserved mail service is the fact that the reserved service accounts for 93% of the universal postal service's income, and to the most extent, the sending of utility bills, electricity bills, telephone and tax solutions. Since the most important part of the reserved service is communal and other accounts, which fall within shipments of up to 20 grams, it is clear that this downsizing of the postal income limit will not compromise. However, in the transitional and final provisions of the bill, it is prescribed that the reserved service be abolished by Serbia's entry into the EU. This will largely reflect the revenues of the Post Office, as by that time the Government will not determine the price of the reserved service, but all market operators will be priced in this service, except for letters in court, criminal and administrative proceedings, which will remain exclusively a right obligation for the post office of Serbia after EU accession. Changes in the postal services market, e-commerce expansion, the growth of commercial services, as well as changes in laws suggest that mail will increasingly depend on the market in the future, and its business will depend less and less on the will of the state. The trend in the world is that operators are increasingly moving towards the development of a commercial service, especially in line with the requirements dictated by the expansion of electronic trade. The proposed legislative solution will have a significant impact on the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, which at affordable prices will be able to place and sell their products, especially through electronic trade, and deliver them to customers across the country and abroad via postal operators. Practically, through postal traffic flows, faster placement, i.e. the flow of goods and money through postal services is possible. The proposal for a postal service law is based on the implementation of EU postal directives, adapting new market requirements, contributing to the prevention of illegal trade through postal packages, improving the protection of consumer rights of postal service users, as well as ensuring the sustainability of the universal postal service. With regard to the proposal for a law on the approval of the World Postal Union act, we must point out that it is a specialised UN agency, whose mission is to establish and improve co-operation on a multilateral basis and to ensure the uniform and quality provision of international postal services. At the same time, the Alliance contributes to achieving the higher objectives of international co-operation in the economic, social and cultural areas. It should be noted that the Principality of Serbia was one of the 22 signatories of the World Postal Union's founding act, adopted on 9 October 1874. The highest body of the World Postal Federation is Congress, which is held every fourth year and which performs a legislative and regulatory function and is a forum for determining the general policy and strategy of the World Post Federation for the period between the two Congresses. Participation in Congress is an international obligation of the Republic of Serbia, as members of the World Postal Union that stems from the Constitution and other binding acts of the World Postal Union to which our country has joined. The main objective of the adoption of legislation on the approval of the World Postal Federation act is to fulfil the international obligations arising from the membership of the Republic of Serbia in the World Postal Union. The last law to be passed is the Law on the Confirmation of Acts of the World Postal Union, which came out in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" No. 12/2018. At the extraordinary World Postal Federation Congress held between 3 and 7 September 2018 in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, the following acts were adopted: the 10th Additional Protocol of the Constitution of the World Postal Federation, the Second Additional Protocol to the General Regulation of the World Postal Federation, the Additional Protocol of the World Postage Convention, the Final Protocol of the Additional Protocol of the World Postage Convention. When it comes to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Information Security Act, it should be noted that the existing Information Security Act, which came out in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", number 6/16 and 94/17 adopted in January 2016 and regulated the protection measures against security risks in information and communication systems, legal persons' responsibilities in the management and use of information and communication systems and competent authorities for the implementation of protection measures, coordination between protection factors and compliance with the rules of application of the prescribed safeguard measures. The law was passed before the EU Directive on measures for high level of safety of network and information systems in the EU number 2016/1148 and adopted in July 2016. Although it was adopted prior to the adoption of this Directive, the law is largely in line with this Directive, since it contains solutions which comply with the provisions of that Directive. Amendments and additions to the Information Security Act were first accessed for two reasons. First, the remaining harmonisation with the provisions of this Directive, and in order to achieve full consistency, and the second to improve existing legal solutions based on the needs set out so far on the application of the law. Amendments to the law will contribute to a better integration of all relevant actors in the field of information security, as the bill provides that the establishment of ICT system records is of particular importance. In this way, the competent authority and the National CERT will have the possibility to cooperate more intensively with all ICT system operators of particular importance, especially in the event of an incident, but also in terms of providing support, recommendations and advice to protect the ICT system of particular importance. A significant improvement is also the fact that the competent authority has set out a single system for receiving notification of incidents, so that ICT systems of particular importance of notification can pass through the portal of the competent authority and the National CERT. This solution contributes to the effectiveness of reporting incidents and fully informing all relevant participants of the national CERT authorities, who can then participate in the removal of the incident. The draft law provides for provisions on the National CERT, which relate to strengthening the capacity of the National CERT, in order to establish timely and effective support in the event of incidents, and for such type of support professional staff, adequate infrastructure in terms of equipment and working rooms, whose security is provided for precisely this draft law. As the National CERT plays a role and prevention in the field of information security, it is also envisaged to provide statistics from ICT systems of particular importance based on which national CERTs will be able to produce adequate analyses in the field of information security and on which they will prepare recommendations and advice on protection measures in this area. Since the need for continued co-operation of CERTs in the Republic of Serbia has been recognised, provisions have been laid down to define this co-operation through the organisation of regular joint meetings, especially in the case of incidents that significantly endanger information security in the Republic of Serbia. Given the importance of security on the Internet, the bill also defines provisions that provide for security and security measures on the Internet, as well as in general, when using information and communication technologies. When it comes to the applicable General Product Safety Act, which was adopted in 2009, in the process of taking over provisions 2. The EU rules on the general product safety directive and the so-called Directive. Dangerous imitations with a view to ensuring a high level of protection of consumer health and safety and other product users in the further harmonisation process with those regulations are proposed to amend and supplement the 2009 Act on the general safety of products, in accordance with the national programme for the adoption of EU legal flows. The rules in this area are part of the legal framework relevant to negotiating Chapter 28 – Consumer protection and public health. At the same time, this law plays an important role in the market surveillance system and is closely linked to the legal framework which represents the content of negotiating Chapter 1 – free flow of goods. Therefore, the draft amending and supplementing law on general product safety has been done with great attention and above all commitment to finding a way to achieve the highest possible degree of harmonisation with those EU rules, as well as to the extent to which these regulations have been applied before the accession of the Republic of Serbia. In the introductory part of the law, it is explicitly stated that the purpose of the law to place products on the market is to be safe, as prescribed in Article 1. General Product Safety Directive. Since this law also adopts the Directive on dangerous imitations in the introductory part, it is referred to the arrangements and prohibitions relating to those products. It has changed the concept of a product within the meaning of this law which has so far been applied to final products, and now covers all products, including non-final products, without which certain final products cannot be used, such as batteries. The definition of misleading products, dangerous imitations has also been complemented, by clarifying what differences they carry with them by misleading products that are not food, which, by their looks, remind food and may be dangerous to consumers, i.e., especially children, with an example of how such products may have adverse consequences. In the context of the manufacturer’s previously prescribed obligation to place on the market exclusively safe products, a supplement has been made to clarify when these products are considered safe. As the first and basic condition for the presumption of compliance, compliance with the requirements to be followed by the relevant EU rules governing the general safety of products shall be taken into account, and in the absence of those regulations, the presumption of compliance shall require compliance with other requirements governing health and safety requirements that the product must meet in order to be placed on the market. These provisions make the difference between the relevant Serbian standards to be adopted by European standards to meet general safety requirements when the product is considered to be in line with those requirements in relation to the application of other European standards or national standards and other situations where compliance with the general safety requirement cannot be assumed, a conformity assessment is already required. Obligations are also established and enables the manufacturer to carry out activities relating to the recall of dangerous consumer products by applying rules of good practice, codes which are now being set and extended. An obligation shall be imposed on the competent authority to establish a dialogue procedure for manufacturers and distributors on the product safety issue. As regards the conditions and means of information to the public and the exchange of information in general, the provisions of the applicable laws are amended by prescribing that the information made available to the competent authorities regarding the risk, which products represent for the health and safety of consumers and other users, will be made available to the public in accordance with the conditions of transparency, regardless of the restrictions imposed on the activities and monitoring and research. The clarifications specifically available to the public on the information and identification of the product, the nature of the risk and the measures taken in justified cases will not be made public for the purpose of applying this law which, in their nature, constitute a business secret, except for information relating to the safety properties of the products to be published if circumstances require it to protect the health and safety of consumers and other product users. This way, further harmonisation is done with that EU directive and it explains this very important mechanism that contributes to effective application of the law and more effective achievement of the objective, which is why the law is adopted. More detailed arrangements shall be made for the exchange of information with the European Commission and shall regulate the possibility of the exchange of such information based on the activities of the manufacturer and distributors they take on a voluntary basis or at the request of the competent authority. They shall be amended and supplemented by determining the competence of the general safety market inspection shall be specified by the jurisdiction of the sanitary inspection in the part of the provisions on misleading products applied. Dangerous imitations. Accordingly, provisions on the application of the right to appeal and other remedies to dispute decisions on measures taken, such as the dispute of decisions taken before the Administrative Court, are also specified. It is prescribed that the measures taken will not affect the determination of criminal liability in accordance with the Criminal Law applicable to a specific case. It is given greater importance to international co-operation by the competent authorities, as well as to comply with the obligations of manufacturers and distributors in the manner in which the objective of the law is achieved, i.e. by ensuring that safety products are placed on the market. In the light of this provision, the press will encourage and promote the functioning of manufacturers and distributors on a voluntary basis in accordance with obligations and this law, including where it is possible to adopt and apply rules of good practice. The obligation of the competent authorities to take measures with due regard to serious risk and to take into account the circumstances of each individual case is also prescribed. In order to ensure effective control of the obligation of the competent authorities, it is intended to establish periodic update and implementation of the control programme according to product or risk categories and to monitor the monitoring activities of the findings and results. In addition, the competent authorities shall undertake to monitor and update scientific and technological knowledge regarding product safety and to periodically consider and assess the functioning and efficiency of surveillance, and where necessary review of the adopted surveillance approach. It is prescribed that the competent authorities are obliged to accept, if necessary, to consider complaints and other consumer submissions and other interested parties concerning product safety and control activities and to actively inform consumers and other interested parties in the procedures provided and undertaken for that purpose. The issue of co-operation and communication of competent authorities with producers and distributors is further regulated in relation to the fulfilment of their obligations in the area of general product safety and in accordance with the relevant EU Directive. In addition, criminal provisions are complemented by adding a new member who prescribes fines for the natural person of the manufacturer and distributors, entrepreneurs, for actions, offences that have not so far been sanctioned for a natural person, while for a legal person, penalties for a commercial offence are prescribed. On the occasion of the examination of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on imports and export of dual-use goods in the National Assembly, I would like to say the following – the Law on Exporting and Importing of Double Purpose entered into force on 8 November 2013. This law fully provides for a system of double-use export control of goods in line with European legislation, as well as with international standards. The draft law was attended by EU experts who had yet to draw attention to European legislation and that international practice to control exports of dual-use goods, as well as the provision of brokerage services and technical assistance services, while imports of these goods were not controlled. I am already the name of European regulatory 428/2009 legally binding and directly applicable to all Member States, with which the law has been agreed, pointed out unequivocally. At the time of the adoption of the law referred to above, taking into account that the division of a single law on foreign trade and arms, military equipment and dual-use goods into two parts, part relating to double-use control and part controlled by arms and military equipment, there were neither the conditions nor the consent of the authorities involved in the preparation of the law, the abolition of the control of the import of these goods. The European Union and experts stressed that it is important to comply with the provisions of binding regulation 428/2009 in terms of the definition and procedure of issuing licences, and that the country's internal matter is whether it will control more than what is prescribed by that regulation. At that point, it was a practice in the legislation of most countries in the environment. Meanwhile, the Republic of Serbia has practically remained the only country in Europe to control, or issue licences for importing dual-use goods. The surrounding countries have already changed their legislation in this regard: Montenegro, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Albania. Our economy is controlled by dual-use imports, burdened with additional administration, collection of documentation, submission of requests, payment of taxis and finally waiting for authorisation, whose procedure lasted for about 30 days, reducing its competitiveness and increasing business costs for business operators. On the other hand, investors who have invested in production capacities in our country point out that this is how they are destimulated because they receive import licences from EU Member States, e.g. for imports of certain machinery or parts necessary for the production of which they combine so-called ‘supply’ The dual-use goods must be exposed to additional costs and wait for the permission of the competent Serbian authorities to import those goods. Most often, such demands have been addressed to us by the Danish company Grundfos, Germany's Milbauer, but also by large IT companies such as "Orakal", "Cisco" and others. In view of the above, amendments to the Export and Import Act of double-use goods have been proposed, in the sense of erasing the provisions relating to the control of imports and the issue of licences for imports of goods contained in the national control list, of dual-use goods. It is noteworthy that the text of the law, Article 3, does not delete the definitions relating to the concept – imports and importers, in order to maintain the obligation of business entities to keep records of the operations carried out in exports, but also imports of dual-use goods and deliveries are, where appropriate, competent authorities to see - Article 23 of the Law, as well as to ensure the ability to control the conduct of business of undertakings related to dual-use goods, by the competent authorities - Article 28 of the Law, because of the nature of the goods concerned. Also, the proposed amendments and amendments to the law do not exclude the obligation to issue export and import licences on lists 1, 2 and 3. Conventions prohibiting the development of production, storage and use of chemical weapons and their destruction - the Chemical Convention, taking into account the need to keep the international obligation of the Republic of Serbia, following accession to that Convention, regularly report on the completed exports and imports of these goods. In this regard, we point out that the report on export licences issued and imports of goods from those lists will continue uninterrupted and if the obligation to control imports of dual-use goods is lifted. We note that the Republic of Serbia imports much more dual-use goods than it exports. For example, according to data from the Ministry's base in 2017, 164 import licences were issued for double-use goods and only 20 for export. In 2018 176 import licences and 28 export licences were issued. While in 2019, finalising on 16.10., 137 import licences and 15 export licences were issued for dual-use goods. In this regard, it is unambiguous that by abolishing the control of imports of these goods, it will significantly contribute to the disbursement of the Republic of Serbia's economy and to increasing its competitiveness. I call on you MPs to vote in voting day for these laws and these amendments and additions to the law, because they will essentially change, when it comes to these areas and I hope for a favourable outcome. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62503	Do the officials of the committees want a word? Do the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? The word is from a colleague, Marija Jevdzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62504	Thank you. The respected chairman, respected ministers, of the proposed laws on today's agenda aim to improve postal services as well as greater protection of information security, while monitoring compliance with European legislation. The Single Serbia Parliamentary Group will support the postal service law, as well as the proposal for an information security law The Post Office Act aims to ensure a greater level of consumer protection, as well as greater responsibility for senders and postal operators. When we talk about greater responsibility for the sender, it refers to the mandatory identification of the sender and registration of the registration number of the personal documents of the sender or recipient of the consignment. We had an example of different contents in the postal packages, so in the last year, we had a case where a living snake was found in the postal package, and an extraordinary field surveillance found that the sender had given false information and just by adopting the proposed law, the existing regulations would be improved, so we won't have any more examples like this. The increase in additional protection of citizens is also increasing. The proposed amendments to the Law on Postage Services, as I have said, provide that, both when sending and when receiving the consignment, the identity of the consignor shall be determined by the postal operator to make an insight into the user's personal correctness, with a photograph and records the registration number of the ID in order to determine the identity of the consignor. The data collected by postal operators must be kept for at least a year and kept as a business secret, using them exclusively for this purpose for which they are collected. What can be a potential problem is whether postal operators have prepared themselves to store and store that data. On the other hand, it is necessary to prepare the users in a new way to send the consignment. I think the Resort Ministry will do this in a transparent manner and through a kind of public campaign removes all the misunderstandings. It is commendable that during the public debate the ministry involved large postal operators in the process of passing laws, that their suggestions were taken into account and largely adopted. Of course, according to the law. Otherwise, about 55 courier services are operating in Serbia. What makes it a specific country is that our citizens, businesses, mostly use so-called packages to send packages. Express service, which means the courier on the doorstep takes over the package and delivers it to his hands. This type of service records the continuing trend in growth in Serbia and due to the price of the service itself, but also because the sender does not have to come to the counter, so it gets time. The proposed information security law aims to comply with EU information systems provisions adopted in July 2016 and will contribute to a better integration of all participants in the information security area, as well as exchange of information and mutual support in cases that significantly endanger information security in Serbia. In Serbia, otherwise, the Information Security Development Strategy for the period from 2017 to 2020, which established strategic development priorities in this area. A unique Serbia believes that much is being invested and is working on information security and according to the National Information Security Development Index, Serbia is 10th in the 69-nation list. Given the fact that a cyber attack occurs every 39 seconds, and that hackers only make $2.9 million in a minute, and that the world's cybercrime damage is about $600 billion a year, the adoption of this bill will make Serbia more information security and will help the entire society feel safer. By applying this law, we will be able to respond to both the challenges and face high-tech crime. Serbia has established a special prosecution to fight high-tech crime among the first, as well as a special department in the MUP to fight high-tech crime. It speaks of Serbia's determination to fight cyber crime and increase our country's information security. It should be commended to the MUP, which, in co-operation with Interpol, Europol and other regional organisations, is working to combat cyber crime. In the MUP, specially trained police officers, equipped with state-of-the-art technology and software work daily to combat high-tech crime and influence our country's information security. When we talk about Serbia's information security, it should be paid full attention to the direction of local self-government, and support should be given to improving information systems, IT officials' capacity and procedures for managing citizens' data. Most towns and municipalities in Serbia can cope with potential hacker attacks and this is seen through an analysis of the e-Government Office, but is quite vulnerable to potential internal abuses of information. It is necessary to work on education and a larger information drain mechanism to increase data protection at the level of local self-government, hence their safety. The technological development itself brings new security issues, and the most sensitive group is children and they are most at risk of fraud, blackmail and Internet abuse. I want to commend the contact centre for the safety of children on the Internet, which aims to advise how to protect yourself on the Internet and the possibility to report child safety threats. This contact centre has taken preventive measures to prevent the safety of children on the internet from escalating and its work includes the Ministry of Education, Labour, Home Affairs and the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office. We are aware of the fact that the Internet and social networks are increasingly dominant in our lives and that young people spend more and more time using modern technologies, and information security is a challenge, not only for the state, but for the society itself, and I believe that education and digital literacy can help make the Internet as much security as possible, because knowledge of potential abuses, not just children, but adults, reduces the risk of potential consequences. As a parent, I am threatened by the fact that in children of three years of age, there is already an addiction to games that result in unhealthy psychophysical development of children. As a athlete, but primarily, as a parent, I use the opportunity to appeal to all my parents, to direct their children to sports, it doesn't matter which, it's important that children do sports, use their free time to hang out with peers, play in front of buildings or parks, and use computers and phones to improve and monitor modern ways of learning. So we will avoid an example of China, where there are even clinics where children and adults get used to playing games. Serbia is familiar with the need for the prevention and early training of the youngest, i.e. to teach security, which is one of the most important topics, namely information security, prevention of violence and abuse on the Internet. This is why various workshops are being held, and I would like to commend the "IT caravan" that organises the competition of our students from digital literacy and security, and in addition, online safety education is also conducted through lectures, which are held by the centre's representatives in schools for parents and children. The role of the National Centre, which is seen in raising awareness of the importance of information security, informing the public about incidents and providing assistance in the event of an incident, is also important. The bill on the confirmation of acts by the World Postal Federation is seen as working daily in Serbia to modernise postal exchange standards, fulfilling the mission of the World Postal Union, which is to improve the universal postal service. It should point out that Serbia was among 22 founding countries, long ago in 1874, when the World Post Federation was established. As I said at the outset, the JS parliamentary group will support all proposed laws, which are on the agenda, these sessions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62505	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Ana Karadzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62506	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, with associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a bill on postal services, a Law on the Confirmation of Acts of the World Postal Union and a bill on amendments and additions to the Information Security Act. First of all, I would like to stress that our parliamentary group The Socialist Movement, the People's Peasants' Party and the United Peasants' Party, will support all three proposals in the voting day. We are aware that Serbia is modernized every day. We are witnessing that digitisation is increasingly being introduced into the service sector, both in the institutions and in public enterprises and that they are becoming more and more public service. The Law on Postage Services, which is before us, first of all defines this area as being comprehensively defined, regulates to respond in the best possible way to the needs of citizens, in order to enable them to be users of universal postal services, in order to allow them affordable prices, but first and foremost competitiveness, economic and efficiency of services themselves, which ultimately affect quality. Given the widespread spread of digitisation, this law also proposes solutions that improve the security of postal shipments, which is, among other things, a way to comply with the regulations that the EU requires of us. Also, this law increasingly defines the responsibility of postal operators, as well as compensation if certain damages occur. In line with this, I would first of all like to highlight the Post Office of Serbia, as a public company, one of the market participants of postal operators, who, fortunately, has our citizens' praises and in the past two years has won first place as a favorite brand, when we talk about service activities, and another place when we talk about the express service that citizens use. This tells us that services from various spheres in Serbia are increasingly organised, modernised, digitised, and employees working in post offices, and more than 15 thousand, have managed to make a profit of 2.3 billion dinars in the past years as much as possible, because they are the ones carrying the whole story. Also, the Post Office of Serbia is very important when we talk about and help institutions digitise their processes, such as when we talk about electronic issue through driver's licenses etc, because the Post Office of Serbia has very widespread logistics. Also, it is on our agenda to confirm the acts of the World Postal Union. We are obliged under this international treaty to adopt this bill in the voting day, but this will also allow for something that we are increasingly dealing with in previous years, which is the basic principles, meeting the basic principles of environmental protection and in this sphere. Also, on the agenda is a very important bill, these are amendments to the Information Security Act. When we talk about today's business, more and more businesses, or almost all companies, 99%, are using information communication technologies as far as possible, there are major security risks. The digitisation of the public sector and the increasingly efficient way of supporting citizens have reduced business costs, the processes have been automated, the speed of communication is increasing, which, of course, leads to the possibility of high-tech crime which unfortunately knows no borders, but also needs to be co-operated with the international community when we talk about this issue. We from the Socialist Movement are very interested in this law that he adopts. We support him for the reason that we believe that security of information is important, above all, to the Ministry of the Army, namely the defence led by our President Alexander Vulin, but also the Ministry of the Interior. We have recently had the opportunity to hear and present the project - the promotion of electronic administration services with the World Bank, where 55 million dollars will be invested according to the plan and will allow digitisation of over 30 electronic administration services that will be available to citizens via the Internet and via mobile phones. One of the most important electronic systems is an electronic office that will cover everything, the communication of state authorities, businesses and citizens, and make it significantly easier for citizens to finish their jobs and needs. It is precisely because of these projects that have been implemented, but also because of those in which it is invested, that there must first and foremost be the secrecy of the data and we need to invest more and more in curbing high-tech crime. Serbia is a country of capable and smart, valuable, innovative people who are increasingly implementing into this digitisation and we are obliged to continue on that path. Once again, I will stress that the Socialist Movement, the People's Peasants' Party, the United Peasants' Party, will support all three laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62507	Thank you, Mrs. Karadzic. The word is Natasa Mihailović Vacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62508	Thank you, Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, I will focus in my presentation on the proposal to amend and supplement the Information Security Act. The key two reasons for amending and supplementing the law are, as we have heard in the opening address of Minister Djordjevic, a harmonisation with the provisions of the EU NIS Directive on the safety of the network and information systems, and another reason is to improve existing legislative solutions on the basis of the needs identified by the current application of the Information Security Act. We live in an era of the Internet and in a world where we witness numerous challenges in the field of information security. Every day we become increasingly aware of the importance of this area and every day we become aware of the vulnerability of the devices we use, the systems we use, the software, and we are also aware that this is a global problem. Information security can no longer be viewed separately from security in the physical world, and the damage resulting from cyber attacks is very real and is causing real consequences in the physical world as well. However, due to the specificities related to the technology of the perpetrators and victims of such attacks, the issue of information security requires special care for everyone who deals with the Internet. We are increasingly witnessing that the world is facing the old truth, the truth we have known since the appearance of the Internet that technology can be useful and threatening, that it can be used and abused. What can be used for the benefit of society can be used, unfortunately, and to its harm. The Internet has been integrated into almost all forms of human activity, thus increasing the vulnerability of modern society since cyber attacks. The Internet is part of critical, global infrastructure and many important services of modern society, such as e-commerce, e-banking and other services, are very sensitive to these attacks. Information security is also one of the strategic priorities in the development of the information society. Our country is aware of all the threats that follow the development of new technologies and systems. So, right away to point out in the beginning that it's even clearer, we as a state are not facing anything special compared to what other countries in the world are facing. Hacker attacks are more rules than incidents. Thousands of companies, including the entire countries, are under attack by cyber attacks, and all these influences dictate the need to find better system solutions and improve the existing ones in response to information security problems. Of course, as I said, and I will repeat again, Serbia is no exception to that. Cyberspace does not know the physical boundaries, so Serbia is not singled out either, but is part of the overall network. Just a little reminder, in Serbia, the public's eyes turned to the problems of cyberspace attacks on the website of a large insurance company several years ago. Then, in 2014, a digital agenda management site, the Privatisation Agency, even an attack on a court in Nis, was attacked. A rise in the number of financial frauds targeted by banks, citizens, as well as employees in the banking sector has also been observed. The most common objectives of such attacks are to gain financial benefit, but the goal, of course, as we know can also be to steal personal data, account numbers paid cards and so on. High-tech crime after terrorism may be the greatest threat to global security, and therefore, with technological development, there must be a parallel improvement and a search for new ways of protection and a common response to these problems. I'm going to give another example of an attack two years ago when one hacker attack blocked about 200,000 computers around the world. The attack in Serbia has not compromised critical infrastructure, several individual cases have been reported, but it is important to point out by citing this example, that the competent services immediately warned citizens and institutions that should take action to increase the protection of their computers and information systems. The amendments and additions to the law we are discussing have defined precise incidents that should be reported, which can have a significant impact on the breach of information security. It has also been determined that information systems are required of particular importance to provide statistics on incidents that may affect information security violations. The establishment of a single system for the reception of incident notifications has been significantly improved in relation to the applicable law. This solution contributes to the effectiveness of reporting the incident itself and, more importantly, to the full information of all relevant participants who will cooperate more intensively with all ICT system operators of particular importance in terms of support, recommendations and advice on protection. That was also said by Minister Djordjevic in his opening statement. So, despite global threats and risks of cyber attacks, Serbia was 10 in the list of 69 countries, which were identified by the E-Goverance Academy, according to the National Information Security Development Index last year. Serbia took the position, above all, thanks to high estimates for the fight against cyber crime, as well as for regulation in the area and the protection of key services. By adopting amendments to the Information Security Act, we are also fully in line with the European Network and Information Security Directive and are improving, as I have already said, existing mechanisms to define protection measures against security risks in information systems. Reading changes and additions to the Information Security Act, it is very clear that as a country we are aware of the risks and open to digital transformation. So, ready for all the challenges that the future brings when we talk about information security. For the end of this first address, the SDPS parliamentary group will also support this and other laws on the agenda of this session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62509	Thank you, Mrs. Vacic Mihajlović. The word is Snow White Petrovic. Here you go, Mrs. Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62510	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs, respected citizens, as an authorised representative of the PUPS, on behalf of my colleagues and colleagues, apart from honor, I have a great obligation and responsibility stemming from a long-standing internship in the postal system to present the proposals of the laws we are discussing today. I will remind only that postal traffic in Serbia was established in 1840. I'm not going to talk about the development of telegraph, telephone traffic, first postage stamps, but I'm going to say that the first Ministry of Mail, Telegraph and Phone was established in 1918. I will return to 1874, to the establishment of the World Postal Union for one of our very important reasons, which is that then 22 founding countries formed this largest and oldest international organization. What kind of society was the young Principality of Serbia at the time, here you will be heard. Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Egypt, France, Greece, the Netherlands, Italy, Luxembourg, Germany, Norway, Portugal, Romania, the United States, Spain, Switzerland, Sweden, Turkey, Hungary, Great Britain, these are the countries with which the young Principality of Serbia formed the World Post Federation, recognising then the importance, importance and role of mail for both the country and the people, in fact. The World Postal Union, I told you, is the oldest form of multilateral co-operation in the world. He made and connected the whole world into a unique territory, took up one exchange of written shipments. The organisation and functioning of the World Postal Federation shall be based on acts adopted in accordance with the will of all Member States. The principle of unity of postal territory for the exchange of postal shipments, written fees and freedom of transit constitute the basis of the World Postal Federation's operation. And so this act that we're talking about today bears the obligation to adopt. Our membership of the founders has been successful until today and has never been interrupted, even in the time of the famous sanctions Serbia had to endure. The World Postal Federation also awarded several awards to the Public Enterprise "The Post Office of Serbia". I only mention the Golden Certificate for the fastest growing quality of services in Southeast Europe, then the Bronze Charter of the EMS Cooperative, for the quality of the EMS service, the World Post Council Quality Fund award, for the best implemented project, the enlargement of the AMQM system for automatic quality measurement, and the first prize for postal stamps at the Post of Europe contest, as a sub-organisation of the National Music Instruments in 2014. So much for those earlier dates, about the history of the post office. There are some dates and some years that are very important, and they relate to a newer history of the Post. Well, here's to saying that you "Serb Mail" in the sense that today it works you've known since 1989, when it's registered as the PTT Transport Public Enterprise of Serbia. In the years that followed, many daughters of the company failed, and they were extremely successful. For example, in 1993, the Bank of Post Office Savings, today the largest domestic and strongest domestic bank. In 1994, the company Mobtel, which the state later sold for a billion and a half euros. In 1997, The PTT system has singled out "Telecom Serbia", which was then sold to Italians and Greeks in the privatisation process. Shortly thereafter, "Serb Post" executed the founding order, raised a 219m-euro mortgage and bought Italian actions by puking majority ownership over Telecom. The "Post-Serbia" loan is still paying out of its own income and no help from anyone. We'll agree that these are big funds, big money, and they're hard to make today. Another denunciation regarding Telecom could also have been submitted by post workers. They gave up belonging dividends in favour of the purchase of "Telecom" by the Serbian and positioning today's Telecom, as the regional leader that he undoubtedly is, eighty per cent of the "Telecoma" action, after then transferring it to a state without compensation, without even a single dinar. This is what this system has done for the state, for society and for the people at all, and as far as it has arrived today, it is best to say that the Post Office today has grown into a system that has the largest infrastructure and logistics business network in the country covering the territory of the Republic of Serbia and parts of Kosovo and Metohija. Post services are available by means of 1.534 corporate mail, those you know about, which you enter to pay your bills. So we have these separate corporate counters, separate contract mails, mobile corporate counters. This is exactly 4,500 tents connected to the PostTIS information system the largest computer network in the country that created the highest postal experts on its own and it is actually one of the first major IT projects in the country. Today we have others that my colleagues and colleagues will likely speak more specifically. On the counters Post office daily serves 1.3 million users to one of the 566 services offered. All of this would not be possible if it did not execute 14,000 and some professional and dedicated workers, both on counters and on over three and a half thousand postal mailing districts in three regional postal-logist centres in Belgrade, Novi Sad and Nis, 15 local postal-logist centres throughout Serbia, three post-tasting, 32 post-shop sales places. All with a fleet of 3,749 different means of transport in 1,700 facilities across Serbia. After defining the Post, as a serious provider of electronic administration services by completing the project of the central system of electronic parent books and taking over dominant participation in the electronic certification market, a communication brand ‘Post net’ was also established, which offers a digital television package of widely-explained internet. Thanks to the state-of-the-art technology infrastructure, the Post Office improves communication with foreign administrations, implements new concepts, processing and transport of senders, rationalises costs and at the same time improves the quality of conditions for the work of our employees. Profitability, growth and development are key business definitions of the Post Office of Serbia. The last decade of the post office has been marked especially by many challenges, but also impressive achievements. For example, the profit of Post was 1.2 billion dinars in 2012 to reach 3.6 billion dinars in 2016. Supporting the government's financial consolidation measures, as a reflection of good business results, the post office paid the largest share in the republic's budget, namely 70-75% of the annual profits. Serbia's post office has done a great job in this period. In addition to impressive results, it has built a stable basis for further development. Also, Post office is one of the few public enterprises that fulfils all its obligations in time, the full budget of the Republic of Serbia from which they are distributed to professors, doctors, and pensions to pensioners. In other words, the total giving of the Post on all basiss on the annual new is a total of 1% of the total republican budget. During this last decade, the actions "52 mail for 52 weeks in Serbia's villages" and the "State of Serbia in Serbia" action, which predicts that, according to the precise schedule and time, a postal clerk, a municipal official and a doctor, are visiting the farthest villages in Serbia. This project lives in 11 local self-government. Yes, that was the case for the term of office of the then director, Mr. Krkobibic, who is now successfully implementing the "500 cooperatives in 500 villages" plan. I will tell this opportunity that the Post Office has maintained the trend of positive movements, business efficiency and efficiency for years, and all thanks to sound management of business processes and cost rationalization. In 2018, a good business result and net profit of 2.3 billion was repeated. Most of the revenues were made from commercial services, slightly less than 50%, while the revenues from reserved postal services were 33%. Confirmation of success and importance The Post also received high rankings on the "top 300" list as the most successful public enterprise in Serbia, which generates almost a third of the net profit shown by other public enterprises. The wider community and users recognized the role and rewarded the mail with decent recognitions at the traditional competition "My Choice", by declaring Post for the favorite brand in 2018 in the transport category among 780 products and brands, while the second place belonged to the Serbian Post Express courier service, which once again gave recognition of quality. The government of the Republic of Serbia and NAD has awarded the Post Office's "fer company" poster to support the award-winning game "Take Handball and Victory" and contribute to the fight against the gray economy. The post-Serbian mission, as a national market leader and public postal operator, is to ensure that all residents of our country, under the same conditions, provide universal postal service, as a measure of general interest, consisting of a set of postal services, which are carried out continuously in all Serbia's territory, within the prescribed quality, at affordable prices and equal conditions for all users, whether they live in Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nis, Kragujevac or that of my most remote village in the Kosalnik Sudimlje, or in Gornja Ljubiš or in Gostil or elsewhere. The exclusive right to provide reserved services within certain limits per mass and price, guaranteed by the state by this law, is changed and reduced from 100 grams to 50 grams, thereby liberalising the market and harmonising the law with the EU Directive. In fact, this exclusive law has prescribed that a public postal operator with that obligation to serve and serve the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia, especially mountainous and rural areas, that is to say, non-performable territories, would serve as a certain compensation for this kind of incompetence, which our competition, private companies, do not have as an obligation. So 57-8 private operators in the area of the Republic of Serbia who provide postal services can choose parts of Serbia in which they will operate. Of course, they most often choose urban, densely populated urban environments and make profit in a simple, fast, and easy way. In addition to the legal solution providing for the provision of conditions for the provision and sustainability of the universal postal service, as well as for raising the level of security of postal consignors, this proposal also provides for a higher level of protection for postal service users, both senders and recipients. It shall also determine the responsibility of the postal operator and the damages that the operator is obliged to make up for the user on the basis of the established liability. It shall determine and define the responsibility of the consignor. Also, the law provides for greater RATEL competences as a regulator in the postal market. We also see in the law that there is a greater provision for the availability of services to disabled persons, and therefore, in the final part of the law, it is in line with other laws and their provisions. What's a newspaper in this law, and that's a chapter on postage stamps. It's a newspaper. The current law did not provide for behaviour in relation to the production, sale and issue of postage marks. It is now clearly defined, the public postal operator is producing regular, convenient and personalised postage stamps and must submit a report to the ministry, and for a possible offence will be subject to sanctions. In addition to the most important activity, the post office in its range, as I said, has 566 different services per citizen, small and medium-sized enterprises, large corporations, state authorities and administrations. The segment of this commercial service includes transport and distribution, as I said, postal stamps and values of financial activity, representation and intervention in insurance, in telecommunications, cable, wireless, satellite and other telecommunications services, computer programming and information services related to telecommunications, printing works, road freight transport, storage and real estate rental and management. For example, the volume of services provided during 2018 is 457 million services provided for our citizens and economy. These commercial postal services are provided by other companies with the permission of RATL, given that there is free competition in this segment. Once again, I will say, by all the criteria prescribed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia in 2012, and by this law, as you can see, the post office was long ago not a monopolies but a market-based company in very sharp competition, with, as I said, 57 operators in basic postal activity, over 1,000 competitors in IT area and competitors, of course, and all of the business banks where mail still provides more financial services than all business banks provide together. The rapid development of postal traffic characterizes the appearance of a large number of postal operators. Now, in order to raise the quality of postal services, to improve the functioning of the postal network, to improve access to the postal network, to develop the postal services market in line with the needs of the economy and citizens of the Republic of Serbia and to create conditions for the universal postal services to be fully in line with the social, economic and technological situation in the Republic of Serbia, the competent ministry must adopt this law in practice, to provide equal treatment for all the participants in the postal market and it is particularly important control mechanism and sanctioning violations and applications, both with the public postal operator and with all other service providers. I'm not sure that the legal solution so far has fully regulated the position of both public postal operator and other private operators. The impression is that a public postal operator or "Post-Serbia" was burdened by many regulations, rules, collections, reports and data that he had to deliver and respond to every application that followed, as far as citizens are concerned, while I am not sure that there are equal morals and private companies providing postal service. The same approach is guaranteed to all participants for a well-regulated postal market. It is particularly important that the new legislative regulations and inspections in this ministry affect the suppression of illegal postal flows, because by returning postal shipments to legal flows, the grey economy is suppressed, and therefore, the budget of the Republic of Serbia is being charged. We live in a time of a lot of dynamic change, technological and IT revolution, in a time of great challenges. I can say that "Serb Post", created on the former basis of work, knowledge, experience, generations and generations of postal employees, can be a kind of guarantee that this and all future temptations will be successful because we see strength and creative potential in employees. Something below 15,000 employees in "Post-Serbia" are the key resources of this system, whose workplace is safe only with the finding and successful implementation of new jobs and respect for economic criteria in all segments. There can't be any extra workers. We talked earlier. Jobs must be sought. Today, at a time of great migration, there must be no shortage of workers, labour must be provided, as well as adequate earnings for the job done, if we want to preserve quality and fulfil the obligation set out in this bill. At the same time, the increase in earnings and higher employment rates, i.e. the reduction in unemployment rates, are the policies of the government and our President Vukic, the people's trust that is being exercised and must be done in the best way. The "Post of Serbia" 180 years of its existence and work marks the next 2020, which is a very rare jubilee in the business world in Serbia. In the end, I must say, in its long existence, the post office in the central place sets the satisfaction of our users, which is the only guarantee and stock of good business policy and future development. At the same time, the post shows a high degree of social dialogue and solidarity with the social community and encourages promotion of the highest civil values. I will also commend these changes to the Information Security Act, especially that segment on the protection of children on the Internet. For this address of mine this much. The PUPS Group will support these laws, but will also take an active part in the debate in particular, according to the amendments, with the aim of getting the best and the best law, the measure of our citizens, our economy, to ensure the best and more competitive postal market. The PUPS Group and I will personally be pleased to support these laws, in the hope that through the amendments we will define some more things that we see as necessary, and I think we will find understanding in that sense. I also invite colleagues and colleagues to vote in favour of these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62511	Thank you. The word has Stefan Miladinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62512	Thank you. Dear Ministers, respected ministers from the ministry, above all, I would like to express great satisfaction on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, given that we have two extremely good draft laws ahead of us. The liberalisation of the market, the globalisation of the economy, the accelerated development of postal traffic, the emergence of a large number of postal operators is a backbone and a need to boost competitiveness on both national and international markets. The key objective of postal reform is an extremely high quality, efficient, innovative and sustainable postal sector, of course, adapted to the needs of the 21st century. As it all began, she mentioned a colleague of Snow White's. Historically, the Republic of Serbia was then as the principality of one of the 22 states that founded the World Post Federation in 1874. So Serbia was the founder of the oldest international organisation in the world and only a few years later, in 1881 it also became a member of the Interparliamentary Union, or signed the Interparliamentary Union Act, whose meeting was held last week in Belgrade. The post office of Yugoslavia was one of the founders of the World Postal Federation, participating in the constitution of this organisation at a convention in Brussels in 1952, and today this organisation is a total of 193 members. The World Postal Federation has created a unique territory for the mutual exchange of written shipments on the principles of single postal territory, free postal transit and taxi unity, and, of course, the promotion of international postal traffic, the provision of quality, efficient and accessible universal postal services. The adoption of the law on the validation of acts of the World Postal Federation, which is before us today, will define more precisely the conditions under which the authorised postal operator of the Member States performs international postal services, will ensure the right to universal postal service to all legal and natural persons in the single postal territory under equal conditions and affordable prices and respect for all international standards relating to environmental protection, improvement of the security of postal shipments, the security of users and employees, in order not to endanger life, health and environmental and property. We live in a time in which the development of information and communication technologies has a significant impact on all areas and on all services, namely the postal sector. The experiences of postal operators around the world show that through co-operation with state institutions and international organisations operators can successfully operate. The adjustment of postal services, including in Serbia, can be an unequivocal example of all other economic services, especially in the field of energy, traffic or transport. The Republic of Serbia is making progress in the process of harmonising with the current EU directives, all in order to raise the level of protection of users of these services, raising the security of shipments, certainly, as well as encouraging strengthening competition. It is obvious that a great deal of effort, pawnage and expertise has been put in place in the making of this law, and this has resulted in a quality proposal. I will mention several proposed solutions, which is the availability of a universal postal service through the obligation of the postal service provider to provide a sufficient number of accessible points and to provide a universal postal service in the overall territory of the Republic of Serbia at affordable prices without discrimination. It is highlighted in the law and concerns that disabled users can be made available to postal services, and the sustainability of universal postal services will also be ensured by defining the scope of reserved services, i.e. shipments up to 50gr, which can only be provided by a universal postal service provider. The amendments and additions to the laws follow new market and user requirements and protect consumer rights by defining the way users themselves act, the time limit for handling advertising damages and criminal measures. I would particularly point out that the bill clearly shows that we have taken care of, of course, the stabilisation and accession process, and that is seen and strengthened by the position of an independent regulatory body. In the case of the Republic of Serbia, it is the regulatory body for electronic communications and postal services through new responsibilities such as giving consent to universal service prices outside the domain of reserved postal services, performing professional supervision of the work of postal operators, and I would particularly highlight a solution that introduces mediation in the out-of-court settlement process. I also note that the positive European practice has shown that strengthening the regulatory body provides for a more efficient development of the market and postal services, so I would point out this at this time that as a member of the board of directors, I must commend the work of this independent regulatory body and point out that in previous years everything is actually projected and in accordance with the competences of this regulatory body and implemented, and that we can not only through the consideration of their annual reports but also through direct co-operation with RATL representatives as MPs. The second bill is on amendments to the Information Security Act. The proposal is also of exceptional quality, taking into account all relevant circumstances. The implementation of the Information Security Act, which we adopted in 2016, showed the need to amend certain provisions, but also to comply with the EU Directive which came into force immediately after the adoption of that law in 2016. Article 6 The Information Security Act lays down areas where ICT systems are of particular importance and complements are made for another area in this article, which is the digital infrastructure and information society services. Prior to public publication, information on an incident by the competent ministry has been determined to carry out prior consultations with the ICT system operator of particular importance, which provided an incident notice in which the ICT system operator's integrity is ensured of particular importance. The amendments complemented the workarounds and obligations, i.e. competences and other solutions that would ensure availability at any time, provided the uninterrupted availability of services through different means of communication. The national CERT will react according to reported or otherwise detected incidents in systems of special importance, as well as other systems in the Republic of Serbia, providing advice and recommendations based on available information to persons affected by this incident. As part of the promotion of existing legal solutions is of exceptional importance, of course, and the establishment of operator records. An obligation shall be introduced by the competent ministry to establish a record of the ICT system of special importance and make available to the national CERT, but it shall be the obligation of the operator to enter its ICT system with the competent ministry. A way of notifying incidents that significantly endanger information security through the competent authority or national CERT portal is defined in a single incident notification system. It is noteworthy to say that CERT's co-operation in the Republic of Serbia is also envisaged, the mandatory co-operation of the National CERT, the Authority's CERT, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the defence, then the CERT's security services and independent operators in Serbia, and regular meeting maintenance is prescribed. The provisions have been added, I would particularly point out, about the protection of children in the use of communication technologies. Finally, I would like to commend the Ministry's work not only on what you did in previous years when it comes to the safety of children on the Internet, but also on a great and successful campaign in progress, but also on everything you've done, that is, to contribute not only to the development of digital literacy, but also to the promotion of the information society in Serbia. In voting day, we will uphold these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62513	Thank you. Now the word has been made by the People's MP Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62514	Mr. Minister and members of the Ministry, I have every right to believe that this is unserious by the Ministry that the proposal that arrived in the Assembly two years ago is being discussed today on the basis of the information contained in this material for the reasons the minister himself has read, and you have read it well, Minister, I must commend you, you have a style when it comes to, the data dating back to 2014. Can you imagine what an absurd thing that is? We discuss material, discuss postal services, and in this material the latest data are from 2015. Simply, a man who does not believe that for these two years it has not been found appropriate within the Ministry to supplement these data, the data that are very relevant for the debate, which are clear indicators of where and how it should be pursued when it comes to providing these to the servant. We also have an example that, for these two years in the Ministry, they haven't found it appropriate to search this text of the bill, so we have the title instead of "licence" says "Lence". The text further shows that it is logical that they are licensed, but you must agree, gentlemen, for such a single ministry significant this is too unserious. At least you could have done this language correction. Why is that so important? For the reason that when we look at this data, we see, even in the diagrams, it's shown that the volume of postal services is recording the decline. From the economic crisis to 2014 it records the decline of all, in a dazzling way, postal services. Some services include growth, but we only have data until 2014. Mr. Minister, if you'd be so kind, that's page 49, just to look at the diagrams by 2014. Gentlemen, you're the only one who's doing the information. Don't abuse this. It's 2019. It's been five years since this data. Of course, I have a lot of faith in you. I don't speak for a reason to diminish your work, the importance of your work, but I speak for a reason that we MPs deserve some respect. Yet we are at the level of someone that we can see that no one in the Ministry has found fit to pay attention, especially in the professional service and say – wait, five years have passed since 2014, let's see if the volume of postal services is changing. We have clear indications here that some other parameters date back to 2016. Here is, for example, the number of postal operators in the Republic of Serbia from 2010 to 2016. This is a lot fresher. This, compared to previous information, has recently been done. So 2016. If this is 2019, God asks you how many operators have now grown, which is very important, very important. You can't, gentlemen, so you go to parliament with a very significant bill. Why? If nothing else, if you do not respect the MPs, the institution of parliament, you must respect something called the postal service tradition in Serbia. Gentlemen, they date back to 1807, from the First Serbian Uprising, when Karadjordje sent mail, and officially with the haticherif that Knjaz Milos Obrenovic got to form an official something called post office service, or mail. So that tradition is almost two centuries. The tradition of mail in Serbia, the national institutions, and here you have not put it anywhere that it is a national institution. You have placed – general places, and this can be applied in Slovenia, it can be in Croatia, it can be in Albania wherever you want, there is no national anywhere. There is a place where it is said: the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and so man finds his way. The tradition is much longer in postal services, in the existence of mail, than is the tradition of the existence of many countries within the EU. This may sound a little illogical to you right now, but I'd love to, and often you mention how some other nations, as some other countries, are calling for tradition. A 200-year tradition at least requires so much respect. If not, then, gentlemen, you must have reality in front of your eyes. Serbia's post office is an organisation currently employed by 15,000 Serbian citizens. It is almost the largest working organisation in Serbia. At least have respect for these people and come out with material that will be, not only fresher, but also more accurate facts. Since I think this time as an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group divides into two parts, into these three points, what is very important is that citizens know what the competences of individual authorities are when it comes to postal services. We have a government, the government has the authority to regulate basic definitions and principles of postal services, bring strategic acts, etc. We have a ministry that makes regulations based on the law's powers, then controls the application of this law and other regulations, and we have an agency. What is very important to us, Serbian radicals – when will you once, not end those agencies, but some agencies that as regulatory bodies should exist, when will you call them national agencies? While you've already prescribed this law by the reputation of individual EU members, this is a translation, otherwise, gentlemen, from the Croatian language and their native Serbian language, from the Izakica. It's just that they're a bit of an out-of-work member, if Vlasi didn't think of it, so we couldn't, and otherwise I have the original of that bill, or the law on Croatian mail, or postal services. The exact same, but they called their agency a Croatian agency. When are you going to say it's a Serbian agency, it's a Serbian post office? What are you ashamed of? What is quite clear is this dose of masochism that is present at the ruling coalition. You really state at every point in the bill as the most important entry into the EU. Wait, guys, are you aware of the fact that, no matter how much you want it, as much as you've tried it one way or another, the EU won't try Serbia, it won't. The basic condition is not regulation, legal regulation, the functioning of postal services or others, but is the basic and main condition of the recognition of KIM. How much more should EU representatives tell you? As long as those who come across the ocean are washing your head, and you always serve us -- it's very important here to join the EU, we need to coordinate the functioning of this postal service system with EU standards? Of course, no one is normal against the alignment in that part that promotes the functioning of postal services, but it always has the other side of the medal. It must be kept in mind that in this general misery, the public company "Post", the provision of postal services is not only an economic but also a social category. There's a great opportunity for people to get a job. Secondly, apart from these two functions, in my opinion, it also has what a significant function it is when it comes to the defence of the state. Don't play like that. You take, even go so far as the reputation of what is said to have seen a frog, and even she has raised her foot, the agency can bring sublegals to European standards. How can the agency bring sublegals? Tell me, please? I guess there's the ministry, I guess there's the government, but the agency has been given so much authority that a man has to think about what the purpose is, what the role of the ministry and government is. The agency can do anything. The agency is the key here. She will decide on criteria, she will decide on licences, she will decide on the price of services. All will be decided by the agency. However, there are certain segments where it should consult with the ministry, i.e. to be consulted with the government, as it is said, but it is completely incomprehensible. It is incomprehensible that you overwrite everything from word to word, even the conditions for doing this job, and leave out something that is very, very important, except for these standards for universal postal services, you forgot, gentlemen, to put on one criterion, which is the quality of service. The quality of services in the EU is clearly defined. It is defined by a percentage of the number, i.e. the percentage of the divided mail in one day, or a maximum of three days and it ranges from a percentage of 85% during one day, the fastest mail arrived, should be distributed to the recipients, up to three days 95%. It's nowhere to be found here. All you have here is that it is armed with time, from one to three days, or from one to five days, and that one day will be the day of the week when the shipment is delivered, or when the notice is left that the shipment has arrived. You have no right criterion to say – yes, the distributor can be the one who has operational or infrastructure so capable that in one day 85% of the mail arrivals can be delivered to recipients, i.e. within a maximum of three days, it can be 95%. When it comes to internal traffic, when it comes to international traffic, it regulates all this world alliance, and that is something that is criteria that must be respected. In the second part of my presentation, I will look back at one part and the other two points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62515	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Katarina Rakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62516	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there are three legislative proposals before us today, as we have already heard these are: a bill on postal services, a bill on the confirmation of acts of the World Postal Union and a proposal for amendments and addition of the Information Security Act. As we can see, this is actually about two draft laws and one ratification of international acts. As regards the very proposal for a Law on Postal Services, I can say, as we have already heard, this bill was adopted by the Government at its session on 28 November 2017 and the basic reasons for its adoption were reflected in order to improve the quality of postal services and to improve the functioning of postal traffic. Of course, an analysis of the postal market and postal services was carried out before, and it once again highlighted the really great need for this, and of course the need to raise the security of postal shipments. The newspapers found in this bill, which was shown in practice, relate primarily to the responsibility of the sender. We heard just before that the contents of the shipment itself were often inappropriate and inadequate, and this happened because the legal area had not been regulated so far. This law clearly regulates what the contents of the consignment itself can be, as well as how the shipment itself must be packaged in order not to damage other packages without even hurting those who carry the shipment itself. In addition, this legislative proposal is in line with the laws that penetrate the area of postal traffic, which are laws on violations, inspection laws and the Consumer Protection Act. In addition to this harmonisation with legislation, i.e. with the regulations of the Republic of Serbia, this legislative proposal also took place in line with the acts of the World Postal Union, and it was particularly taken into account the appearance of the postmark prescribed by the Postal Federation, and it particularly stresses that the name of the country printing a certain mark must be found on the postmark itself. Also, this bill is also adapted to European Union regulations, which I personally believe will certainly contribute to improving postal services. What is also important to say is that, on the basis of the conclusion of the Committee of the Government of the Republic of Serbia's Economic and Finance on this text of the proposal, then the draft law, a public debate was held between 3 November and 14 December 2016. As regards the Law on Confirmation of Acts of the World Postal Union, as I have already stated, this is about ratification of international acts, and Serbia has taken that obligation by joining membership in the World Post Federation itself, and it says that all acts adopted at the World Post Federation must be ratified, or adapted to the regulations of a certain state. The Post Federation itself was founded in 1874, primarily with the aim of establishing the best functioning of postal traffic, and the former Federal Republic of Yugoslavia joined the World Postal Federation on 18 June 2001. Otherwise, the World Postal Federation numbers 192 Member States and it represents a non-political organisation, does not address internal issues of organisation and operation of postal traffic itself within each Member State. As for financial commitments for the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia is obliged to pay only the payment of contributions paid by all members of the World Postal Union. Otherwise, the execution of acts by the World Postal Federation itself will create no additional obligation to be paid out of the Republic of Serbia's budget. The third law in the context of today's united debate is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Information Security Act. As we all know, one of the top priorities of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is digitisation. The Serbian Progressive Party, led by President Aleksandar Vukic, certainly wants to transform Serbia into a digital leader in the region. Of course, we can all notice that the construction of digital infrastructure is done very quickly, to introduce a number of electronic services, and all in order to reduce bureaucracy, to provide Serbian citizens with a better and easier approach, to spend their free time in a different way, rather than standing in endless lines. Also, digitisation certainly encourages the fight against corruption, because when you don't have a chance to meet people who decide on your cases, when you don't need to go around counters and various offices, then people don't even get to come and offer some kind of means and deal with corrupt actions. What is very important is that the government of the Republic of Serbia planned to digitise a large number of services. Over the next five years, a complete digitisation of 30 extremely important services has been planned that will certainly make it easier for citizens of Serbia to function daily, and that digitalisation is planned even so far to make applications via mobile phones, where citizens will be able to access certain services. Digitalisation certainly represents something that will greatly improve and facilitate the lives of all citizens. However, by moving to a digital world, many dangers and opportunities are certainly created for numerous abuses. The law right now needs to ensure that all digital services in Serbia are accompanied by a step in the security of all digital services. This adds to what we have already passed a new law after three and a half years, because digitalisation in Serbia is really taking a quick step, and the law that needs to ensure its security must really follow its every step. The most important newspaper in this bill is a chapter on the safety of children on the Internet. Research has shown that we have children who, at the age of four, come in contact with digital devices, and by the age of five, start using Internets and mobile phones. But what is really worrying is that two thirds of parents and educators do not have enough knowledge and skills to protect their children from possible abuses. In addition to the fact that the Internet and digital communications are a very good place for learning and entertainment, they can certainly be extremely dangerous places because children can fall into very serious dangers in just a few clicks. Internet and media are not dangerous for children only if there is 100% parental control. The entry into force of the law currently in force in 2016 was one of the objectives of setting up the National Children's Safety Control Centre on the Internet. This centre has received 7,000 calls so far, and out of 1,380 cases, 155 cases had criminal elements. Statistics have shown that children on the Internet are always the easiest and most common target, and that is primarily because statistics again say that more than 85% of children spend more than an hour on the Internet. Then, 11% of parents stressed that their children came into contact with strangers via the Internet, and even 30% of parents said that their children were exposed to inappropriate content on the Internet. What is devastating so far is that only 17% of parents say they understand digital innovation and know how to protect their child online. What is one of the major plans of the government of the Republic of Serbia is to transfer modern technologies to primary school education in Serbia. I think it's a really good idea, but certainly the first line of protection has to be a house, it has to be a family. Of course, children at that first level need to be explained what the Internet means and what it means to be on the Internet, and then after a family, you should definitely work on their education. Kids have to learn how to filter content on the Internet. Children must be explained what it means when they create a warrant on social networks. It must be explained to them that although they have a code on a particular account, it does not mean that this code means their complete security, and children must be clearly told that once something, once published on the Internet, really always stays on the Internet even though they delete it from their account. Some experts have suggested that it would be useful and good to limit children from using any device with a screen for an hour a day. Now, these same experts say that parents should, in fact, be a good example to children, so they should use all the same digital devices that have a screen for an hour a day, which, you'll agree, or we'll all agree is really not easy today. But the same experts said, and with that, we can also agree that it's very difficult to estimate when we're on the Internet how much time we really spend on the Internet, and it's even harder to limit that time in some sense. It's them, those same experts compared, in fact, to the consumption of narcotics. In such a way, it simply runs away from reality and goes to another world, avoiding real obligations. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, of course, there are many more amendments in today's bill that are really very important. One of them is that there is a harmonisation of our legislation with EU regulations in this proposal, and some of it is also to improve the already existing solution. However, what I would like to point out anyway, and I've talked a lot about it already, is the safety of children on the Internet and the education of parents. It's really important, because we have to protect them and parents really can't think for a moment that the child on the Internet is completely safe. I can also compare it, leave a child on the Internet alone, I can compare it like if you took a child and left it at a crossroads just to get by without explaining to him what a traffic light means, or what it means to cross the street, but simply to leave it in four years to manage itself. This law, of course, indicates that parents must be educated. Parents may feel that they really know what the child is doing on the Internet only when they can answer the following questions, which are: do you know what kind of technology your child uses? Do you know what kind of technology your child uses that allows others to have access to it? Do you know if your child is capable of coping with this when faced with inappropriate content on the Internet? And, of course, the question of all questions – do you blindly trust a child or follow him closely? My advice for all parents is to closely monitor your child's every digital step on the Internet and make sure that it doesn't tell you every step of the way and that it won't tell you everything he's met on the Internet. Personally, I would like to see this law really only serve as a prevention, or obligation to exist, and that we have brought it today, that no child is really threatened on the Internet. The Serbian Progressive Party will certainly support this bill, and this way I would like to invite other MPs to vote and support this text of the law in the day of voting, if for no other reason, then for the safety of our children on the Internet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62517	Thank you, Mrs. Rakic. Are any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, answering for a word? No, I don't. ) Since no one is reporting for the time being, we are moving to the order of MPs according to the application for a word in a joint principled search on the drafts of the law referred to in points 1, 2, and 3 of the agenda. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Muamer Zukorlic. He's not there. The word has Professor Miladin Ševarlic. Professor, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62518	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The first question I would like to address to the minister and his associates is – why can't a telegram be sent to Cyrillic in Serbia after so much time since the founding of "Serb Post", which is contrary to Article 10. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia which regulated the issue and is contrary to point 15 of the declaration of accession of the Republic of Serbia to the EU? Who and how long will be tolerated for not allowing the use of constitutional law? At a time when Morse's alphabet sent telegrams, that was possible. Today, when we have the internet and an enormous increase in budget resources for the Office of the Prime Minister for Informal Improvements, it is not possible. The second issue concerns the proposal for a decision on changes and additions to the financial plan of the Republic Pension and Disability Insurance Fund for 2019. Please answer me – is the director of the Republic PIO Fund a shareholder with 10%? Why should the Assembly give him the authority to have his free will, therefore, not the Governing Board, but the Director of the Republic PIO Fund to transfer 10% of the 668 billion dinars to each other? What is the congregation for? Then why are we adopting this? Are the changes and additions to this proposal for 10% of the budget or not? So we empower the Director of the PIO Fund to have more resources than the total increase in budgets, i.e. total funds, not budget funds, but total PIO funds. Well, where is it in the world? Give us a private fund, so we know we're slaves, pensioners that the slaves are with the private owner, etc. After the 800,000m-euro robbery, the government is giving us this proposal. This is point 3 on page 9. A motion for a decision, if you don't know where it is. I think it is high time for Serbian citizens to choose different MPs in the Serbian Parliament. The pensioners were robbed of 800m euros, allegedly medium-rich and wealthy, those who had over 25,000 under the minimum consumer basket, 80 billion were robbed farmers, 100,000 agricultural households that have owned the property have been shut down since 2012. I ask you, what is this leading to? Who needs Serbia without Serbs? To whom do we serve Serbia without Serbs? Who's going to populate her? Also, we received this motion for a decision by emergency procedure. I just found it in the office. I didn't see him in the office yesterday. I don't know when it was delivered. What are we gonna do? When are we supposed to give the amendments, until when? It's easy for you, you have the secretary of Parliament clubs, you have advisors, you have services at your disposal, etc. In the end, you have a bell to vote on or not. The bell doesn't warn me whether I should vote or not. One more question, let me finish. This morning, I spent an advance on the announced social aid to 5,000-dollar pensioners. This morning, I deposited that on a plea from the Cachan Association in Belgrade at the expense of a single mother with three children who were cut off by electricity due to a 33,000-dollar debt.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62519	Thank you, Professor. Chesaves. Veroljub Arsic: Rules of Procedure! ) Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62520	Articles 103 and 107. The rules of procedure have been broken. This united debate does not mean the Pension, Disabilities and Health Insurance Fund, it is about Article 103, a completely missed topic of the agenda, and 107, because here one of my colleagues is trying to bring panic and dissatisfaction among citizens. Namely, this famous 10% provision that the Director of the Republic Pension Insurance Fund can move is regulated by the Budget System Act. The Budgetary System Act contains the provision and applies to all beneficiaries of budgetary resources and cannot deploy them freely at will, but only within the same division. Now, does a colleague who talked about it know what a function is, what he split up, what an appraisal is? He obviously doesn't know. If he knew, he wouldn't say things like that. This is the alphabet of the budget system. So it's just like when you want to teach at university, and you don't know how to write and read. Do not allow your colleague Marinkovic to panic and dissatisfaction that this is some private fund. It is a fund that provides funding for pension payments and a good part of those funds, unfortunately because of those he was on the list with, with whom he was elected, when companies sold out even during the government of Vojislav Kostunica and the DSS, brought the fund into a position that it must be complemented from the Republic of Serbia's budget. However, since the SNS is in power and Aleksandar Vukic was then prime minister, and now the president of the Republic of Serbia, these grants from the Republic of Serbia's budget are less and less, and unlike then, I think they are down by about 30%. We are going towards making our Pension Insurance Fund self-sustainable, so it is financed exclusively from the contributions paid by employees, not from loans as they did.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62521	Thank you, colleague Arsic. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (No) Thank you. Professor Chevarlich, are you looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure? Only on that basis can I give you my word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62522	Thank you very much. I thank you for being in 71 years of my life, after gaining the highest calling at the University of Serbia and getting... .
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62523	Professor, name a member, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62524	Article 107, dignity of the Assembly. So, can I go on?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62525	Yes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62526	... I can't read. I can't read. I can't read. It's really disdainful. Is there anything else you know other than to belittle unthinkers? It's a shame. Answer the question where 800m euros were stolen from pensioners? Answer the question where 80 billion were stolen from farmers, and on the other hand, we give a hand and a hat to foreign investors. Why has it never been given 10,000 euros to investors from the Russian Federation in the workplace? Why hasn't the South Stream been given 10,000 euros per job? (Blaža Knezevic: How much did Petrovic give you? ) Everything Dusan Petrovic gave me, I will give you double. Are you satisfied now? You're not ashamed of yourself. You sent BIA inspectors to control all my data, all alive. You have court, you have instance in your hands, press charges. It's a shame.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62527	Thank you, Professor Chevarlich. Do you want the National Assembly to declare in the day of voting on my injury to the Rules of Procedure? (Yes) Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62528	You should warn the MPs that they can't tell anyone they can't read.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62529	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62530	Mr. Chairman, this is about whether anyone knows or doesn't know how to read. A colleague before me advertised the violation of Rule 107's Rules of Procedure, I immediately did so before him, and Article 103, paragraph 2, says - the MP cannot point to an injury in the actions of the president of the National Assembly that he has already been mentioned. Now, if a colleague reads, I don't know if he can read or doesn't know, but to read, this provision would know. That's the first thing. Second, if he cares so much about pensioners and the Pension Insurance Fund, don't ask us where 800m euros went. Don't let him ask us where more than 4.5 billion euros of foreign exchange reserves were sold while they were in power, but let him ask his friends with whom he went to the SNS elections. I don't mind him coming out against the SNS. What he got was that they had to be brought here to the Assembly by the American ambassadors. But don't ask us about the thieving that his party colleagues, who were on the list with him, made it. One more thing, he's going to say he's impartial. Maybe he is, but he chooses his company as I choose mine, and I won't do it with thieves.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62531	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. I've only applied the authority of Article 27. Honestly, I wanted to give Professor Chevarlic a chance to have him say something. Professor, you answered again, on what grounds? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62532	Article 103 again. Can't he or can he?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62533	Here you go, but please point to my breach of the Rules of Procedure as the Rules of Procedure say, is this better if you asked for a replica? I don't know why you're looking for damage to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, and please don't hurt yourself.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62534	I don't know who a thief is, and for thieves, there are organs in this country. Of those who entered the National Bank with long pipes, without any documents of what was done there, who later became advisors of high-ranking state officials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62535	Thank you, Professor Chevarlich. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (No) Here you go, replica, Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62536	I waited a little while to finish advertising the Rules of Procedure. There's no need to eat, Mr. Chevarlich. I'm here for your exposure, and it's no problem that you, if there's anything further you need to explain after what I'm about to say. In fact, I was going to say that I thought I understood your notes well. You asked those questions about, as you said 800m euros, those who are the real culprits and whose cheek is responsible for any damage the country has suffered. I understood that MP Ševarlic, when talking about some funds that were reduced to pensioners, asked why they brought the state to the brink of collapse, on the brink of bankruptcy, those who ruled this country until 2012 in the case of Dragan Dilas, had been shaking Belgrade for another year or two longer. I think he referred these people to them, because these people are directly responsible for bringing Serbia to the brink of bankruptcy, for bringing Serbia into a situation where there are no basics, and among other things for pensions, for bringing Serbia into a situation that, without asking whether 10% pension cuts for some categories of pensioners can be a solution, but literally a situation to ask whether there will be any pensions for anyone. Not to be, 90% or 95% compared to some date, but to be zero, zero to be for all categories of pensioners from a certain month on. It means bankruptcy. I am convinced that MP Ševarlic referred directly to the name and last name, the eye, the mustache and the beard of Dragan Djilas, the yellow tycoon, Boris Tadic, the former president of the state, Vuk Jeremic, formerly raped and right-handed hand of Boris Tadic, Borko Stefanovic and all those others who made up the first team of the yellow company once, and today they are what with Đilas in the coalition, directly in the service of his interests, as his debtors who further man and interest. Of course, the inseparable composition of this society is also made up of the people of Dvora with whom it is MP Ševarlic was a member of the same parliamentary group, but also other members of the former regime with which, also, MP Ševarlic was on the joint election list in 2016. He's right to ask people, where are the millions? He's absolutely right, where answers can be offered by me. For 619 of those he said hundreds, speak to Dragan Gilas immediately, for so much Dragan Gilas has loaded on the accounts of his companies, and for the change let him ask about him, as well as those around him. After all, it is right for the MP Arsic – either to choose society or to ask questions, before he stands by the list and says – I am the same as these people.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62537	Thank you, Mr. Orlic. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic is entitled to the replica. Professor, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62538	Thank you, Vice President. Unlike other debaters, I have no intention of taking over the role of either the investigative judge or the prosecutor or the judge. It's the competent state authorities and let them do their job and let the guilty respond. I can only answer for what I did. I'm always ready to answer in front of everyone. I don't think that's something anyone else can offer, including those outside this room. I have nothing to do with Gilas or anyone from the parties in any way in terms of spending money. What about Dusan? Not even with Dushan. Please, you've had the abuse of the Assembly ten times here. These aren't my receipts, they're receipts based on a team project that took part in the realisation of this project and it's not the only project. It was a public competition. We've been through two external, international controls, not ours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62539	Thank you, Professor Chevarlich. We've gone far from the subject. The word is Veroljub Arsic, right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62540	"Whoever with the devil plantes pumpkins on his head breaks down," our people say. Don't shower on the ashes, don't have anything to do with some people. As far as I know, your list went through in the re-elections, and the votes, to join the National Assembly, gave you directly Bojan Pajtic, Dragan Djilas, means DS, to represent their views here, it is well known. They gave you that support in public. Now that you give up on them, it's your problem and your loss of identity, but don't attribute their misdemeanors to us, not to say a worse word, because they're the ones who took both their hats and their hands away from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. You must be aware of that when you ask questions – who took something from the pensioners? They took not only the pensioners, they kidnapped us and our children, they kidnapped the future, they left Serbia, not only with an empty register, but they left Serbia empty without a population. I guess they wanted to go to some next election after who knows which authorities to write -- who's last coming out of Serbia to turn off the light. You chose your own society with which to go to the election, so you bear some political responsibility for it. Don't ask us where the money went. Ask them, ask that Bastic where he got 13,000 euros from at the airport? How much he took out of Serbia, so they didn't find it. Where did he get that money? Don't do us. Ask them, and that's the money of the Serbian citizens. That's the one that can't be seen, hiding in the straws. There are 800m euros missing and who knows how many billion euros.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62541	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. The Minister, Mr Zoran Djordjevic, called for the word. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62542	Thank you. He's doing the right information to the public to say that you've done some things completely incorrectly. When it comes to the subsidies of this country, they and how they mean that when it comes to foreign investors all are equal, so as you say, they have the right to comply with the law and those coming from the Russian Federation. But also, what you always forget to say is that under the same rights our domestic citizens have and that they can also get all these rights and subsidies and that they get it. We call on them today, that today when the state has money for precisely these subsidies, all our domestic citizens, in accordance with the law, apply, because we are willing to support our economy, to support domestic investors and not only to be equal, but to be, in a way, stimulated to work here in Serbia, to stay here in Serbia. It's the only real truth. As for this other thing, when you ask where they went and you talk about some flat-rate figures of about 800 million euros, as your colleague told you, 619 we know where they are, for the rest of the country will make sure that according to the law they establish where they are, but I don't want them left out at that time, when it comes to the PIO Fund, which you forget, they're raising loans so they can pay off pensions, which we're paying back today, that they're then subsidized PIO funds with 52% of the total budget, by taking loans and being paid out of the Republic budget. Today it is reduced to below 24% with a tendency to even lower. Besides, we'll have a chance to talk about the PIO budget on Friday, so I can tell you the other details, so we don't bother all MPs now, because this isn't even a topic today. Come Friday, and we'll talk about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62543	Thank you, Minister. Right on line, Professor Miladin Ševarlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62544	Mr. Minister, I haven't heard the answer – will Serbian citizens be able to send telegrams to Cyrillic by post?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62545	Thank you, Professor. The word is made by Minister Zoran Djordjevic. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62546	Thank you. I wanted to answer that, too. Certainly, as Minister of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs whose jurisdiction was the PIO Fund, when I heard from a group of SRS MPs that at the beginning of my term the PIO Fund gave its solutions to the Latin, I as a minister initiated and the PIO Fund very quickly introduced that all solutions are being written on Cyrillic. As minister, I am not a resolute minister for "Postal of Serbia", but I certainly have the right as a minister in the government to initiate that, and I will certainly as a minister to initiate it. I don't think there's any excuse for less telegrams being sent today and for being in some small amount. I don't think it's going to be a problem for them, and I think the Post Office is going to change that thing very soon. So, don't worry, those two letters are even with us, but they'll be printed on Cyrillic, as our law says. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62547	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We're closing a circle of replicas. Thank you all for the debate. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62548	Thank you. The chairman, respected ministers with associates, fellow MPs, Serbian citizens, I am Milija Miletic, coming from Svrlig, it is the most beautiful municipality in Serbia, located next to the town of Nis, it is the most beautiful city in Serbia. Otherwise, I was elected to the Serbian Parliament on the SNS list, Alexander Vukic, and I represent the United Peasants' Party. My speeches have always been on the subject of agriculture, villages, undeveloped areas in southeastern Serbia, and everything that weighs down on these people. The problems there are in one part of the problems we're talking about here. By the way, I mean all those bill proposals that we're talking about right now, which are related to the Post Office, to all the necessary things about it, the security of the shipment of those who send them. I think we need to pass this law and I'll support it. But, on the other hand, we need to talk more about some things about such areas where I come from where more areas, villages, municipalities, there is no possibility of having these postal services at all times, where for the purposes of these people living in these areas, we need to provide more adequate and better conditions, that at all times a man, a pensioner, whether it is a farmer, whether any pensioner, that he can get at the moment when the funds are paid, that he can get a pension, that he can get it on his hands, because it happens and it happened in the previous period that in the areas from which I come, and that's a number of such municipalities in Serbia, that villages are old, dissension is big, he needs to open up some more jobs, specifically for those postmen to be able to reach every person, because their needs are so that they can't go to the central places, that they have to the center, that they need to the old people, or to the town. If he's waiting for himself to take what someone's sending him or his pension, it's not possible. If someone goes in his place, it happens that these people are not given the right number or something is taken away, and they don't see it because they're old and weary and because it's necessary in such a way to provide a greater number of these postal services, to ensure that every village, that at any moment the postman can come, that the post office comes to every house. On the other hand, I understand that there is a great need for these small environments, mountainous and mountainous areas at the time of winter. Believe me, in some villages, it's hard to come by because it's big garbage, blizzards and in such villages, those of our people who need to bring it to them, certain supplies, specifically what mailmen do, what these people do for these postal services and they certainly can't come and they need to be provided with better working conditions and we need to provide better means of transport, because it's not all in those people because they can't get there in time, but they're real things that I'm talking about right now. We looked at some media as certain people who work in the post office do it in the most responsible and fairest way, to every house they go and if a working machine, or machine that cleans snow, does not pass. People still leave and finish their jobs. Not only do postal services, but they do to our people who live in such areas, such villages, provide those other supplies such as food, what is most needed for them. Even they bring in medications for them by doctors, and if they have a phone line, they talk to these people, they negotiate and bring back what they need. I think that in the next period we have to put a slightly greater emphasis on such people precisely because Serbia is a big country, a big territory, but we are quite demographically threatened, especially those areas from which I specifically come and we have witnessed that these postal services in some cases happen to disappear, that we do not know who sends them, and we have experience that in some of these shipments we have live animals that are poisonous, which are dangerous to people's lives. That's why I think we need to pass these laws, to make this shipment safer, to know who's sending it. On the other hand, I have to say that the most important thing is that our people, our pensioners, our all these hosts living in these areas where life conditions are difficult. When it's snow, when it's winter it's very hard for those people to reach. That's why it takes to provide a larger number of perpetrators, people who will be able to take away what someone is sending them, whether it's a telegram, whether it's a shipment that's important for their further existence, which is why I'm going to support the proposals of these laws, but I expect the competent ministry, that people who have the ability to create, change, find the possibility to provide a larger number of perpetrators, even at times when it's a bad time, because I say again, the problems of our little ones. Sometimes their children forget them too, so we must be socially responsible, socially responsible for providing from some other means the opportunity to reach them. By the way, in my municipality where the competent ministry is specifically Mr. Krkobic, I have to say, when he was the Director of the Post Office, I don't need to praise anything, but it's a state-of-the-art, there's an agreed and medical service there, that in the days when mail comes, that these days a doctor comes. At that end, we received the consent of the competent health ministry, so we also covered a number of rural areas in which there was no post office, and there was no health care. That's why I think we need to work together to ensure all of our people a safer age and have the opportunity to live on it. I, as an MP for the United Peasant Party, will vote in favour of all these laws and I will support them because I think this is necessary and I support in this way our Serbian President, Mr. Vukic, who is all fighting for a better and better Serbia, but for a safe future for us who live in southeastern Serbia and mountainous areas, our villages.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62549	Thank you, fellow Miletic. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today even after 1800 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The word has the People's Messenger Grozdan Banac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62550	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear guests from the Ministry, when it comes to postal services, we must bear in mind certain facts. The postal and postal services worldwide are one of the oldest organised social and state-owned activities in every country in the world and without which everyday life would be almost unimaginable. As a result of their post office, they have long remained an area under an exclusive state patronate. However, dynamic technological progress in all fields and a huge increase in both the quantities of information exchanged, and the speeds of their flows and exchanges also require the necessary changes facing modern postal systems, which must be accompanied by adequate and modern legal regulation in this area. Neither can our "Post-Serbia" company in this respect be an exception. It achieves significant results year after year in its business, which is reflected in the increase in revenue, the number of expeditioned shipments, their faster delivery and fewer losses, and all in the greater competition of different companies dealing with this business and the price of postage that is the lowest in Europe for the usual letters. I would only refer to some aspects of the new law. Article 18 defines what the universal postal service includes. In addition to the services defined so far relating to letters and packages, it is now predicted that this category will include letters delivered in a judicial or administrative procedure, which we hope should, to some extent, speed up these proceedings. Obligations of public postal operators are foreseen to enable equal access to all users, especially to adjust their premises and terminals so that they can be used by disabled persons. In Article 44, it is now different to define what is included in the category of prohibited lists of items that are not to be sent to postal shipments, which will include live animals, banned pornography, as well as money, valuable items, securities of value if not sent as a valuable consignment. Also, with this in connection, it will be given the authority that the operator may make an insight into the consignment before closing, and in the presence of the sender if such content is suspected. In the section relating to licences, the existence of a special licence to be issued to a public postal operator over a period of 15 years is foreseen. This means that the public post office of Serbia will have to, as it has done so far, try to maintain a high quality of its services while at the same time making wide accessibility to the wider layers of the population. In the section relating to the protection of postal service users and complaints, improvements have been made concerning more detailed arrangements of the procedure, claims and collection of potential damages to users, as well as the responsibility of the sender. I believe that the bill on postal services and its adoption will create such a legal basis that will allow for even more efficient work both in the public post office of Serbia and other companies dealing with individual postal services. For these reasons, my United Pensioners Group of Serbia will support the adoption of this law, as well as other laws relating to today's session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62551	Thank you, Mrs. Banac. Honorable MPs, according to Article 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I now set a break. We'll be back in 15 hours and 10 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62552	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. According to the order of the People's MPs, according to the application for a word in a joint principled search on the drafts of the law referred to in points 1, 2 and 3 of the agenda, the People's MP Vesna Ivkovic is. Here you go, colleague Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62553	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected fellow Members and fellow MPs today, we are discussing the proposal for a Law on Post Office Services, hence a completely new text of the law, which is the result of the observed shortcomings in the application of the applicable law. The need to change the law is also due to new developments in the postal services market, as well as the need to bring domestic legislation, in the postal services sector, into line with EU legislation, i.e. with mandatory acts of the World Postal Union and the demands of the World Trade Organisation. It should be noted that new, better quality postal services are expected from the adoption of this law, a higher degree of protection of the rights of postal service users, the rights of postal operators and a higher degree of security of postal shipments, both domestic and international. Professional supervision, as well as the verification of adequate application of the laws and regulations in the field of postal services, will be carried out by the national regulatory authority, and for the area of postal services, is the Regulatory Agency for Electronic Communications and Postal Services, i.e. RATEL. The proposed solutions, as I have already mentioned, will ensure a higher level of protection for senders and recipients of postal shipments. The responsibility of the postal operator, as well as obligations, type of services, procedure with undelivered consignments, return of shipments, prohibited content of the same, procedure with valuable and ransom shipments. It is attributed to the process of recording the number of IDs accompanying the reception and dispatch of registered, or valuable consignments, in accordance with the law governing the protection of personal data, which is a particularly important legal provision. Namely, when sending and receiving consignments, the postal operators will be obliged to make an insight into the user's personal ID with the photo and to register the registration number of the personal document in order to identify the identity of the sender or recipient. That information will be kept for at least a year and treated as a business secret. The data protection and data protection issue must comply with the Personal Data Protection Act. What I would say as a well-intentioned remark is that there must be some kind of public information campaign that would introduce citizens to new provisions of the law and prepare them for co-operation. I'm afraid otherwise out of ignorance and ignorance there will be a lot of denied shipments and disadvantages, which will affect internet sales and their costs due to unsuccessful deliveries. The draft law also elaborated the public postal operator's obligation to make it clear. the conditions enable other postal operators to access the network, as well as what the application for access must contain. It is also stated under which conditions a public operator may refuse to apply, as well as the time limit for which the operator is obliged to notify the applicant. Each other's rights and obligations between a public postal operator and other postal operators will be regulated by a network access contract. The draft law also detailed the postage stamps chapter and which conditions must be met in accordance with the World Postal Federation acts, i.e. the obligation of a public postal operator to provide reports to the competent ministry regarding the sale of regular and convenient, as well as personalised postal marks, which are in addition to the means of payment of postal services and the generally accepted way of promotion and marketing. This law provides that a public postal operator will be obliged to issue appropriate postage stamps and values in accordance with the issue plan, as well as considered invalid in the sense of the law. The significant newspaper of this law is the setting of conditions for the provision of universal postal service to disabled users. This law will be equally significant for both citizens of the Republic of Serbia and postal operators and postal service users. By creating conditions for market liberalisation and by increasing the number of postal operators, thus also new types of postal services, as well as by reducing the postage, as a consequence of greater competition, citizens will benefit from the postal services sector. Two words on the bill to confirm the acts of the World Postal Union. The World Post Federation is a specialised UN agency, founded in 1874, with the goal of ensuring successful operation of postal traffic at an international or global level. This organisation has 192 Member States, joined in order to perform international postal traffic in a unique and quality manner according to the same universal rules. The World Post Federation has connected the whole world to one continent and has made the world a unique territory for the exchange of shipments with its general principles. It is a non-political professional organisation and deals, above all, with the issues of the organisation and operation of PTT traffic. The headquarters of this organization is in Bern, Switzerland. Serbia is a member of the World Postal Union, so it applies the standards, i.e. the regulation of this alliance and thus standardises its postal traffic. I believe that postal traffic in Serbia is modernised and accessible to Serbian citizens, but also to recipients of shipments around the world. This bill just confirms several new acts of the World Postal Union. In particular, additional protocols shall be confirmed with acts belonging to a group of mandatory acts of the World Postal Federation. In this way, Serbia continues to fulfil its international commitment, which stems from active membership in this world organisation, which since 1948 has joined the UN as a specialised agency. Today we confirm the following acts of the Postal Federation, the tenth additional protocol of the Constitution of the World Postal Federation, the second additional protocol on the General Regulations of the World Postal Federation, the additional protocol of the World Postal Convention and the final protocol of the additional protocol of the World Postal Convention adopted in Addis Ababa on 7 September 2018. In voting day, the SPS parliamentary group will vote for both of these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62554	Thank you, colleague Ivkovic. The word has a folk MP, Jahja Fehratovic. Here you go, colleague Fehratovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62555	Thank you. Dear Ministers, honourable MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party, the MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation party will support the proposed laws and, of course, for the simple reason that we are witnesses that it is necessary to modernise and introduce innovative methods in this sector in order to restore to some extent the power and image of the Post Office of Serbia. I'm saying this because, let's say, today we have testimony that due to a lot of poor receipts or mediocre mail receipts and very often postmen, especially those suppliers, because of these average small profits, they leave their jobs, they go outside, and that's how the whole system collapses. Again, we want to say that it would be good for us to take into account both this sector and the people who are employed in postal companies to give some increases in order to be able to carry out their existence uninterrupted. Of course, this has happened for several reasons. What my information is is that, let's say, because of the separation of the Post Office, which is the daughter of the company by the Post Office of Serbia, that many postal business areas have moved to the Post Office, and so is enough of those things that have been related to the post office passed over to the Post Office's savings company, and even that, for example, in advance for a month, pensioners can raise their earned pensions through the Post Office, which reduces the basic job of mail, which has left only payments, payments, express shipments and so forth. Of course, in a similar way, some decisions have been made to, say, get certain companies to do some kind of business when it comes to the postal area, and thus they also lower the level of those particulars that are primarily in the definition of postal work to a very modest part which is mainly now only about payments and payments and the express shipments, which has reduced credibility and everything else. Also, it would be very important, let's say, in the cities from which I come, to Novi Pazar, Tutina and Sjenica, the number of mails in some proportions is much smaller than the needs of citizens. Very often you can see huge rows in the post office units, and especially the central post office in Sjenica, which is really in a ruined state, located in the city center, in the pedestrian zone and in the retail area, is one of the central buildings in the city, and although the budget envisaged four, five years ago to completely reconstruct, has not yet been reconstructed, and even sometimes threatens to endanger the lives of walkers and passersby. For example, Absurd is that several other mails from the environment, from the same municipality, located in rural areas, have already been reconstructed, reconstructed, while the central post office, located in the central street, on the promenade, is not and is very visual and aesthetic, and to God and securely dangerous to remain in such a state. This is when we call on the authorities to find a solution to the future budgetary plans to provide funds to reconstruct this post, and also to find a way to improve the economic conditions of the lives of those people who have defined themselves for the post office, who are really threatened with these minimum incomes, and that their sector may be further motivated to continue to do this job, not to think about it, as it is already happening, to leave this job and go abroad, but to see their existence and the existence of their family in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62556	Thank you, colleague Fehratovic. The word has a folk MP Jelena Vujic Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62557	Thank you. Dear Ministers Djordjevic and his associates from the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, respected representatives of the Post Office of Serbia, are ahead of us with a bill on postal services and the law on the validation of acts of the World Post Federation, as well as a bill on amendments and additions to the Information Security Act. JS MP Dragan Markovic Palma will support all proposed laws submitted by the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications. Also, in the voting day, we will support it, because we have a consolidated agenda, where we have a proposal for a decision to give consent to the Decision on amendments and additions to the financial plan of the Republic Pension and Disability Insurance Fund for 2019. This shows that the pensioners who have suffered at one point, let me say, and the most difficult consequences, will now get the possibility of re-enlarged pensions, but also the possibility of a one-time aid that has been given on several occasions. I will pay particular attention to what is very important for us from the JS parliamentary group, which is the safety of children on the Internet and at all the safety of children in this information world, but not just children, but parents and all citizens of Serbia. Children's Day on the Internet welcomed Serbia as the first in the region and the tenth in the world, which is certainly commendable, according to the development of information technologies. What's most important is that the Internet now, in addition to the place of entertainment and learning, becomes a very dangerous area, but despite the dangers of children on the Internet, it's very important that it, let me say, is the second stage, which is both dependence on children and adults from content on the Internet. We are aware of the fact, of course, that social networks are becoming increasingly dominant in our lives and that young people are spending more and more time on the Internet, that modern information technologies represent one challenge not only for the state, but for society as a whole. You will all agree, and JS MPs also consider what experts say, the medicine certainly is in good information. Your ministry also had a very good campaign last year on the safety of children on the Internet, but in addition to campaigns and numerous trainings and associations, I attended, let me say, the police training they conduct in schools, the safety of children on the Internet, as well as certain foundations, such as the Tijana Juric Foundation, which is very useful not only for children, but also for parents, because parents at one point are not aware that besides the available networks they know, such as viber, vocal, Facebook, Instagram, there are other networks that children most often use, where children usually use those networks that parents don't use. That is why it is important to keep all of us awake as parents, to talk to children and, of course, to participate in their daily life on the safety of children on the Internet. Certainly, the house and education are the first lines in child protection, but also information literacy, which becomes available to all Serbian citizens. There were certainly more beautiful times where people agreed and hung out without cell phones, but given today's access to information technologies, we also have to deal with the challenges of the 21st century. In front of us, I would say a few words when it comes to the "Post of Serbia", a very important law on postal services and the validation of acts of the World Postal Union. The JS parliamentary group will also support these laws. What is important is that Serbia is increasingly modernised every day, especially when we talk about this service sector, that the "Post of Serbia" celebrates more than 150 years of existence, to employ more than 15,000 workers. My colleague, Snezana Petrovic, spoke a little more, to say, about this historic post office, but what matters to us from JS is how to improve services and I will not agree with colleagues who say Serbian Post Office employees have less to do than employees at Post Office Savings or others. They have a job in their domain, not banking services, but postal services, and I think more investment needs to be made in that financial part and how to raise salaries for employees in the Post Office of Serbia. There are a large number of workers who do this job in the most responsible way and in the most honest way. In addition to central mail, it may also be necessary to pay more attention to the reopening of village mail, not only to relieve central mail in cities and municipalities, but also to provide greater quality of services and people living in rural areas. Certainly, the law that you have submitted before us very detailed and comprehensively defines and regulates this area in postal services provides universal postal service for all citizens of Serbia, allows affordable prices through competitiveness, economics and efficiency. Also, I would say only a few sentences to this next law, which is that Serbia has joined the World Postal Union. Since 2001, the Union has been a member of this Alliance and thus makes it possible to exchange postal services effectively and accessible. So that full support for this Law on Postage Services, full support for all employees in the Post Office of Serbia, should be particularly commended for these posts in Krusevec, Kraljev, Nis, Jagodina, who are indeed the centers of the interior and who have more, to say, services than workers can achieve, but they do so, so that the JS parliamentary group in the voting day will support all these laws that the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications have proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62558	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger Dalibor Radičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62559	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, honourable MPs, in their presentation, I will refer to the proposal to amend and supplement the Information Security Act. The time I live in today is the time of information technologies. It used to be said that someone is illiterate unless he can read and write. Today the person is illiterate unless he knows he's using modern technology. Our state adopts modern technology and is heading towards the digitisation of the system, not only to monitor modern society and to be modern, but to make life easier for citizens, to reduce the crowds on counters and unnecessary waste of time. We tend to do most of the work from home or office using computers and internet connections. Unfortunately, information technologies, in addition to a large number of benefits, bring benefits, bring certain risks and therefore need to be passed certain legal regulations, in order to ensure safety when using information technologies. That is why today we are considering the amendment and addition of the Information Security Act. As information technologies develop rapidly, legal solutions relating to data security must be constantly changed and improved. That is why changes and additions of the legal solution have been approached, in order to address the observed shortcomings of the law. During the previous two years, much has been done to carry out activities within strategic priorities. I would like to commend activities in the information security of citizens related to risks, violations of citizens' security, misuse of information and communication technologies. I would especially like to commend the establishment of the National Contact Centre for Child Safety on the Internet, because children are the most vulnerable category. This National Contact Centre provides not only counselling, but also reporting harmful, inappropriate and illegal content, as well as behaviour on the Internet, where children's interests and rights are at stake. New legal solutions remove shortcomings that significantly threaten information security. It is possible to connect all information security factors, so that data exchange and mutual support in the event of an incident can react more quickly. Also, new legal solutions allow all information security professionals to constantly improve and modernise, in order to adequately respond to all security challenges and threats. Given that we have a good and quality proposal to amend and supplement the law, in the voting day I will vote for those legal solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62560	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62561	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the bill on postal services is not epochal because we, as MPs, were then, as today, the largest opposition party, have criticised similar proposals in 2005 and 2010. These reasons that you stated in the explanation, or government, of the resolute ministry, are only partially accurate, and they're not essentially true. It is true that it is one of the key reasons for you to comply with EU regulations and directives, and with the changed market circumstances for the business of Post, not because, in order to do so, we would have the right law to regulate the postal service system in our country, this should also be a comprehensive strategy for the business of the Public Business of Serbia, because you cannot allow political influence in the media and in those who are apriors against any political influence to be constantly talking about it, attacking the management of the Post of Serbia, as political influence is being carried out there. Of course, political influence should be exercised, because the issue of existence, the question of development of the Post Office of Serbia, is and should be one of the most important national, ultimately, issues of this country. You know, he spoke part of his colleague Mircic about the history of the Post of Serbia, and all of you, when you repainted back 180 years, you see that the Post Office of Serbia followed both the fate of the people and its history and all the wars and all these events. Now there's a group of people, some who are unhappy, who have the right to do it, and we don't go into it as politicians, but they're, on the one hand, right about the amount of profit they're looking for, but they can't provide it to anyone that's on the board. This should be done by the government, not by giving all the anger and misery to some who are dissatisfied to one side. On the other hand, the Government is passing a law that complies with EU criteria, instead of saying nicely – The Post of Serbia is of national importance, so as you have the National Park Kopalnik, Tara, Fruska Gora National Park, you say nicely – it is a national enterprise, it is a public enterprise based on its establishment, meaning, publicly, because it is founded by the Republic of Serbia, but the Post of Serbia must have a very special place. Do you know that on that one-day stay of the famous, the one we are proudest of as a people, Serbs, Nikola Tesla, was invited to Serbia by the Minister for the Post. So, there was a ministry that called... He had excellent, friendly relations with him and said – come visit Belgrade, and he came for his invitation. It was so important. It was important between the two world wars. It was important, after all, after World War II. I can tell myself I'm a mail kid. It may sound a little strange, but my father, after World War II, so, in the '50s, all the postal schools ended up here in Belgrade, so high and high, so it was called, because there was no further education in the post office. Someone who shared his destiny and, in the end, his family with the mail. So, even before he moved to Kragujevac from his hometown, from the Mosquitos, he opened the Post office on the Kopalnik, as it was then imposed. That's where he was the only one with the military. Then they tell his colleagues – now you're going to another neighborhood and it's so understood as priority and state importance. This is how we have the law here, this area is governed by the EU directive, and that other things that are very important have not been highlighted. First you have to tell the citizens of Serbia, because they have the most confidence in the Post Office as a system, so, both pensioners and other people, I'm not running away from it, we've worked for the market economy and there are alternative solutions that are supposed to be the Pandan Mail and everyone's right to use this service or that service, for your money you can do as you like, as you can from any mobile operator, but you should know that if you were to conduct some interrogation most people will say – we have confidence in the Post Office, because it's one security, starting with a pensioner, not only at the reception of pensions, because even that number is not small, older people somehow refuse these payment cards and way. If the post office doesn't bring pensions to home address he'll go to the post office counter, and secondly, when it comes to universal postal shipments. So, one system that the state has to do, although it is for a free market economy, to favour what is its own, which is the Post Office of Serbia, and the Post Office of Serbia must have all the elements of development as it should be looked at for any segment in society, and to predict all the circumstances that can stumble in its development, and this should not be just a problem and only the Post and Management Board policies, directors, but the Serbian states and to see - what is it that will bring us to the development of the Post? Well, it'll bring us a lot, because the Postman who submits the financial report every year shows the profit he makes. I don't know how long it's been last year, but it's been measured in some billions. Let's make it more. What are the alternative solutions? How can mail be a pandan of some big systems in the world? Here, let's start by saying that we couldn't all imagine 10, 15 years ago, not even some "Amozon" and "Alibabu", right, and that these are the systems that are and these platforms for those countries where they've been founded, they've brought billions. Only one piece of information, but good China is the most human country, that in one day when Alibaba was sold, it earned over a billion euros, not in one day, but in one minute and 30 seconds. Now you start thinking about you, looking for the future. How are you going to hire more people to work in the Post Office of Serbia? How are you going to let them have more money? How are you going to raise the value of the Post Office, because if something is created for 180 years then there must be no further progress and that the state is not behind it, the Government, the Resolute Minister. If you come from the fact that something so feasible is also in Serbia that someone can provide safe delivery, goods reception, delivery of goods, and that it is a pandan for these platforms that are most recognizable in the world, which is the company in Serbia that could accomplish it? It's just the mail of Serbia. Serbia's mail could have such a possibility, but it doesn't, because the state doesn't care enough about the Post Office. If that were true, they are not lonely, but many cases of postmen in Serbia, who must be put into the role of local politicians. This is the case with the famous postman in Kursumlia, or Kursumlijska Banja, who instead of doing so by some local politician from the region, a councilman, someone in charge of such jobs, he goes and breaks through garbage and instead of just handing over mail, or pension, he carries these people sugar, flour, medicines, everything they need, like those old times with which I started this story. So, you have to tell these people and come up with this clear strategy that the state of Serbia as one of the most vital priorities of the national has the Post Office of Serbia, will do everything to help this public enterprise to make progress, and that the value will grow in the future, because someone does, I got that monograph, it seems to me that it was ten years ago, and there we could see that Branislav Nusic was once an official of the Post of Serbia, the famous poet Vojislav Ilic, some other well-known people who certainly contributed to that company. When these yellow harassed and reigned, there is not this Ciric, the famous director of the Post Office of Serbia, it was indeed one that was completely disintegrated. The systematization itself, the steering frame is not enough if we do not look at what is happening in our environment and how can these companies that are operating on the Serbian market and who have the right to do so, which are registered to be competition with what is the state. In that sense, you'd have to make one serious strategy and say it's one of the priorities of the government. It is not normal for and only within this ministry to treat this issue, first in a ministry that has many segments because that's how you arranged the Government and Ministry Act, because the Post Office is something about both traffic and traffic, right, and that ministry and infrastructure and local self-government and everything that can speed up its work. What is not good is that the Serbian Post Office had to take on something that was scandalous, which is that it deals with the affairs imposed on it by the High Council of the Judiciary. Two years ago, Serbia's Post office signed a business co-operation agreement with the VSS to hand over court shipments, which is amazing. First, it conflicts with the Law on Criminal Procedure when it is guilty, the Law on Prosecution, the administrative procedure, and the end of the Law on Courts, because they cannot be incompetent courts, which are made by a network of these yellow ones, and you should return all this and return the court to every local unit in Serbia, to transfer the responsibility and work that they should do and their calls to the Post of Serbia. The largest number of people, right, are employed in the afternoon shift. When do postmen wear mail? In the morning. If you have a mailman, and there is a lawyer here, and there is a colleague, Jovanovic, as well as Petar Jojic, to bring a call, or a solution within five days to take it, that is to be made by this decision and this contract by VSS and Post of Serbia considers the letter to be sent to the recipient at the time when it is received by the competent person in the Post office. That's impossible, because the law on the other hand says that only direct delivery of mail, i.e. calls from the court, verdicts, decisions, any kind, is what you can accept. A direct recipient is not even someone you didn't empower. They can't come and knock on the door, and then you're really in a awkward situation and the mailman of Serbia in someone's mother, wife, wife, children and say, "Is he at home?" It's not, come on, you sign it here or you see it. It's a simple violation of all the laws, and you here say you're passing the Law on postal services precisely because you're harmonizing it with other accompanying laws. In this way, many people lost their property because if it came to him from the court that the executioner, the ones we mobs are fighting, wants to take something, and that someone went on vacation, the village went, who knows who's looking at that mailbox, that notice that it's in the post office, and they say, so it's according to the rule, so it was imposed on us by the VSS. It's just that these are some things that you need to take care of and it has to be suspended and the subpoenas are doing it. Let's get people to work, get them organized better. Here, yesterday you chose the new presidents of the courts, they must have the role of some managers and deal with it. As for the Information Security Act, I have listened carefully to all other colleagues and it is true that children are on the greatest target today of all those who want to abuse children for negative purposes via the Internet. However, the Information Security Act, ladies and gentlemen of fellow MPs, does not only apply to our youngest and primarily underage population, but to Serbia's security in general. Mr. Djordjevic was a military minister and he knows very well that these are sensitive issues and that in Serbia, according to estimates of some people working on the topic, he acts on dozens of foreign intelligence services. You don't think one of our country's information systems is on their target? Of course it is, and Serbia is the most sensitive and should be protected there. But even if we had the highest degree of protection, it's not always that big, because both the Russian Federation and other great countries and China, above all, are looking to keep it at the highest level. What are you going to do and pass this law when information security is being torn down by spies sitting in the government of the Republic of Serbia? Here, counterpart Mircic said – Zorana Mihajlovic is going to the embassy for an opinion. Vukic answered and said – well, he can't work for both Serbia and someone else. Then We asked a question, so wait, is it she that has been checked? It is not, because it is working for the interests of those who do not want Serbia well, which has shown themselves through several harmful projects, above all "Bechtela", because they, of course and through the information system watch, film, observe, do not go on foot, but look at what kind of infrastructure it is, so that they can earn money, how our companies do business, how to lower what needs to be an incentive for our builders, while some "Bechtel" comes with their accompanying components. So these laws are not good, they are similar to those in countries that are either in a phase to join the EU or already in the EU. We have followed that, we have submitted a number of amendments and we believe that the Serbian government must be more serious about this subject, such as information security and above all improvement and help the public company "Post of Serbia".
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62562	I thank my colleague Jovanovic. The word has the People's Messenger Muamer Bacevac. He's not there. The word has been made by Parliamentarian Olivera Pesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62563	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will talk about the bill on postal services. By adopting a new Law on postal services, the quality of postal services will be raised above all. It will allow for more efficient operation of the postal network and will develop the postal services market in line with the needs of the economy and in line with the needs of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. This law will allow, above all, a greater degree of protection of the rights of postal service users. In particular, the liability of the postal operator and the compensation of the damage that the postal operator is required to compensate the user on the basis of the established liability is prescribed. On the other hand, this law defines also the responsibility of the postal shipment sender, and that is exactly the newspaper that is in this law. The papers in the law are proposed to prevent, above all, the abuse by the consignor in that part relating to the prohibited contents of the consignment and the packaging of a consignment which may damage another consignment during transport or to damage the vehicle to which the shipment is transported or to damage or in some way hurt the employee of the postal operator. The existing law left more room for responsibility for the damage caused during lost or damaged things to be transferred to the user. The new law now defines greater responsibility and obligations when receiving the shipment until the delivery phase, so as to raise the level of quality and safety standards, but on the other hand, it also contributes to the provisions of the laws which define and responsibility of the sender himself for the selection of services and the equipment of the consignment in an adequate packaging. Under the applicable law, there was the possibility of taking some kind of illicit trade through postal traffic flows, with minimal opportunities to detect and determine the perpetrators of the work, and that is what is actually changing this law. The law also defines new advertising deadlines for damaged shipments. The period of 30 days which is in force under the law is replaced by eight days, of course, for the benefit of all users, in this case by citizens of the Republic of Serbia. As far as advertising is concerned, the operator is now not free from liability for the damage suffered by calling for inadequate packaging, i.e. inadequate packaging and thus transferring responsibility to the sender, because, under this new law, the postal operator is obliged to refuse to accept the consignment if the packaging does not correspond to the consignment itself. In order to protect the general interest, due to the illegal trade that I mentioned earlier, which existed through postal operators, this law stipulates that when the receipt and delivery of certain shipments, which is primarily meant for valuable and ransom shipments, an insight into the ID card is made and that it is recorded. Also, employees have the right to examine the contents of the consignment in the presence of the user if there is any doubt about the contents of the consignment itself. All that I have stated as a final result will be satisfied with the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and I therefore call on the MPs to support this law in the voting day, as well as other legislative proposals on the agenda today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62564	Thank you, colleague Pesic. The word is from the MP Nikola Savic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62565	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are considering a set of several laws, one of which is the one and one relating to postal services. All of us here, especially the older ones, remember the time when mail was a symbol of all kinds of long-distance communication. After the postcards were sent, New Year's greetings, letters to a soldier in the military and vice versa, packages, money to students in the studios and everything else. The mailmen brought home pensions, mostly brought in, and sometimes they knew they were bringing bad news, but they certainly weren't as hated as they are today, because today when you see a postman outside, it's mostly because of some court solution, some unpaid account, and it's immediately an association to something that's not pleasant for each of us. The lines in front of phone booths used to be bigger than the lines in front of a variety of counters today, but time has done its part and communication has reached an unprecedented situation today, so that all kinds of communication are currently taking place and taking place in real time. The e-mail took over the primate from the classic mail that I was talking about and the way we know it. Many things are sent by e-mail, e-mail and other visions and forms of electronic communication. However, regardless of the dynamic development of information technologies that certainly accelerate all forms of communication, the classical mail, the mail we know will never be abolished, as delivery of certain shipments can only be carried out by some form of means of transport. Packages can never be delivered by electronic means, but, as I said, by means of some means of transport. Let's say a little more specifically, let's see what happened to the formerly unique and public company PTT Serbia, the postal service company. It used to be a unique company that included both telephone and postal traffic and all kinds of other traffic, but we came in a position to tear up this public enterprise, where both private mail and other forms of private property in this area appeared. I don't think there's anything questionable about competition ruling here, but I don't think the competition I'm talking about in this area has led to any lower prices or better service quality. Part of the PTT Public Enterprise infrastructure was taken over by private operators, primarily cable operators, and they have a monopoly in one part of cable infrastructure supply. They dictate both the prices and everything else, that he's just an ordinary man, simply powerless to influence it. We have a situation that thanks to cable operators who have taken over part of the infrastructure from PTT dictate whether or not an event will be transmitted, and we have a situation, which is inadmissible to me, that national national team teams in other sports are not transmitted on national television but on some sports channels, which, of course, is not acceptable, but neither PTT nor anyone decides anymore, but simply these cable operators. We have such a situation that on the first RTS program, the first RTS program is no longer under number one on our remote controls as it has always been in some custom, in some habit, but is now under number three. And worst of all, we can't choose whether to put a RTS or a local television number, or one that forces a program that's interesting to us and that we like, but that's just the way it is. In a similar way as PTT Serbia was torn apart, some other public enterprises, such as Elektroprivreda, the oil industry of Serbia, and from once large and powerful systems we came into a position that many things can't be controlled, and the ordinary man still thinks that, say, the EPS is a unique system and when there's a problem, when he's going somewhere to complain, or if something is looking for him, it's not our company, that's something else, it's the EPS "Suppread", EPS "Production" etc. I think these are things that should not have been allowed, but of course it started before this government headed Serbia and I think it should sort of get in the way of this. There have also been various postal operators, so there has been private competition in this area, as I have already said, we are not against the fact that there is no competition, competition should rule in all areas, including here, but the problem is that this competition in this area, private operators in postal services did not lead to a better quality, nor did it bring lower prices of services. I can say this freely based on my own experience, and I'll give you a few examples. I've often had the need to use the services of private postal operators so-called. Fast mail as it's called in the people. What happened? I personally convinced myself that neither mail delivery was faster, nor was it cheaper, even more, happening and vice versa. In particular, it was the things I ordered, the things and the small weights and the small volume and the small values. When I ordered these things, I clearly left my phone number and said and pointed out that these things do not necessarily have to be delivered to my home address, but these things can be delivered to me at work, or somewhere in the city, or at some location where I'm currently located, because these suppliers are sparring with the city. I guess it's easier for them, too, but it was happening next. They came to my recommendation, request or request to do so, they came to the home address and then from home address if I wasn't home they called me and said – we tried mail delivery, you weren't home, report to our central warehouse that works from so many hours to so many hours. Namely, it's about the town of Nis, I come from the city of Nothing, and the warehouse, I won't talk about which courier service it is, is about 10 to 15 kilometers from the city. Now, for the value of 500, 600 to 1,000 dinars, I had to go 10 or 15 kilometers to their warehouse to get the mail. It happened to me once that it was a weekend, so their warehouse didn't work, and then I had to wait for the weekend to pass, so it turned out to be so-called. The fast mail had arrived, it had been five, six days, and the shipping costs of the post office greatly exceeded the value of the shipment itself. As far as this other law I want to say, it's about information security. This law refers to the current situation, as information technologies have reached such a level, but the weakest link in the information chain is that they cannot be guaranteed either reliability or security. We have read many times in the newspaper that a site of this or those institutions, including many large and famous companies, and even some governments, has been shot down. No matter what this law is passed, I'd love to, but I'm not sure the provisions of this law that this is about will be able to prevent those who want to do bad things in this area. If you remember, I read somewhere a long time ago, that, say, in the Kremlin, they started the most important, meaning the Russian government, the most important decisions and the most confidential memos to type again on those typewriters. So it looks like there's no absolute and total protection in this area, because it's those who make programs that can make a problem and know how it works. I don't think this law, regardless of the good intentions of the promoter, is going to solve all the problems that arise in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62566	Thank you, colleague Saviæ. The People's Messenger Mirko Krlić has the word. Here you go, colleague Krlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62567	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Ministers and Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is always the legal alignment of our institutions with the European rules of the good topic and the task of the highest legislative body, as a confirmation and of course support for the general state policy of this country. Serbia ranks in the order of modern and modern states when it introduced among other things the use of postal services and, of course, when our PTT became part of the World Post Council. I could go on in this idyllic rhythm, however, recent events, very unpleasant, and also the seat of the chairman of the Committee on Culture and Information simply obliges me to say something about unpleasant things, about an unprecedented event, which certainly does not go in the direction of approaching and raising the reputation of PTT and also puts a serious stain on our country's foreign policy. What's this about? On 16 October, an exhibition of photographs of a unique archival building on the extraction of the Serb army from Albania in the winter of 1915/1916 was cancelled. A year. Of course, from that period, with the help of the Italian Navy, archival citizens kept a video, a unique record of the Luce Institute, which speaks of great friendship, great convergence and the great role of Italy on the part of Serbia in the Great War. The exhibition was scheduled to take place today, October 23, at the PTT Museum, there, something behind the Assembly, in the street of Mother Jevrosima in Belgrade, at the initiative of our museum, which was agreed on another June, titled the same name book by Dr Mile Mihajlovic "For the Serbian Army - a forgotten story". Unfortunately, we took a turn, in a way, on the subject of the Italian Navy's help, a little bit of it forgot, and it's very important that we refresh it. The exhibition is scheduled in co-operation with the Italian Institute of Culture, which is part of the Italian Foreign Ministry. It's supposed to open the exhibition to her. E. Ambassador of the Republic of Italy and Minister of Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, present to us today, Mr. Djordjevic, whose jurisdiction is to cultivate the tradition of free wars and who has best supported friendly relations with Italy. I'm familiar with it, even before he was a minister, he did a lot of work to promote these important historical events and, therefore, to him, it's a great honor. The presence of Italian Institute directors, military representatives, many prominent and cultural citizens has also been confirmed. The question arises as to who has found the subject of this already agreed exhibition, why did the office of the director of the company one week before the exhibition was held, and why did it cancel and thus disrupt relations with the Italian Institute of Culture? Is there any reason for such an arrogant act, I use the word "arrogant" by respecting this home, I might use a harsher word, that in this way the Serbian Government does everything to strengthen and strengthen relations with Italy, which is our strategic partner, which is one of our biggest trading partners, one of the strongest strongholds within the EU, and that is a fact? Who, and with what right, gives himself the freedom to compromise the guidelines of the foreign policy of the Republic of Serbia, the government of Serbia and the president? I don't want to believe that it's about turning the policy of those who, in some political agreement, have been given the trust to run this important state institution. I'd rather believe that these are individual, irresponsible procedures. Such an event really requires a serious apology, primarily to the Italian side, also to the organisers, and also to the citizens of Belgrade who have been denied to know one great truth, to see one great exhibition and, of course, to learn even more about the loss and heroism of the Serb army, but also our allies who selfishly shared that fate in the Great War with us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62568	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Ivana Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62569	Thank you, Chairman. Honorable ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with the fourth industrial revolution, through digitisation, Serbia has a developmental chance and is already on track with developed countries and as a leader in the region. The digitalisation process improves the standard and quality of life of hundreds of thousands of Serbian citizens. Such a process increases the efficiency, transparency of work, especially in the state administration, which is at a significantly higher level and reduces costs. Even as Prime Minister, Mr. Alexander Vucic, today as President of the Republic, as well as the current Government, digitisation and modernisation recognise as key segments for innovation, competitiveness and growth. When we talk about proposals from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, about laws governing issues from postal traffic domains, it is important to point out that the proposed solutions regulate the market, with an emphasis on curbing the grey economy, which will allow for an increase in revenues in the budget. The future of providing postal services and the future of Serbia's mail must be based on new technologies, as well as the preservation of traditional services at the same time. Why? You need to step up with new technologies, with information-communication technologies and adapt to providing all services with prefix "e". Furthermore, it is necessary to comply with international regulations, i.e. with EU directives, of course, by providing quality services to international postal services, to continue to adapt to the conditions prescribed by the World Postal Federation acts. Of course, solutions should be made to enable liberalisation and protection of users of services, and quality must be highlighted, as a priority. On the other hand, it is very important to point out that a public postal operator, territorially organised in the Republic of Serbia and that a public operator, i.e. by law protects end-user services and guarantees through a developed postal network, i.e. through developed infrastructure, that the service will be provided. Let us remind ourselves that the Law on postal services regulates the position of a public postal operator and it is generally known that postal services must be available to citizens 24 hours a day, seven days a week, all year, even in emergency situations. The reading of this bill gives the impression that good regulation of the postal services market is envisaged, and in order to justify this impression, it is a great responsibility and a great obligation, first of all, to the ministries that are most in charge of implementing this law, so that we recognize the quality and these provisions that are well defined and in practice. It is essential to move forward with modern technologies, protect users of services, protect the safety of children on the Internet, combat the gray economy and create an environment for healthy competition, not reducing the quality of service provision, not breaking deadlines, without violating the availability of services and creating conditions for increasing revenue in the budget. It's contained in the draft laws that are on the agenda today. These are the principles on which the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is based, these are principles on which President Aleksandr Vukic's work is based, defined by the SNS programme. In voting day, we will support the proposed laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62570	Thank you, colleague Nikolic. The People's Messenger Milovan Krikapic has the word. Here you go, colleague Krivokapic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62571	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow workers, respected colleagues and colleagues, before starting a discussion on the Law on Post Office Services, I must say that the adoption of this law will definitely allow to speed up the quality of postal services provision, better consumer protection, greater and healthier competition on the postal services market, which will certainly lead to an increase in quality and lower prices of postal services. Therefore, since the adoption of the previous Postage Services Act 2014, it has been sufficient time for the applicable legal provisions to be tested in practice and to conclude in which direction new solutions should be further defined, improved, or improved. We all know very well that postal traffic has a significant and specific economic function and is one of the drivers of business and society development, it is vitally important, above all, for postal service users, which is why postal services are listed in services of general economic interest. The proposed solutions in this bill create conditions for the universal postal service to be fully in line with the social, economic and technological environment in the Republic of Serbia, which encourages more efficient operation of the postal network in line with the needs of the economy and citizens. In view of the increase in the volume of postal services, as well as the constant changes in the requests of postal service users, which can be defined as changes in the postal market, it was necessary to create conditions for ensuring a greater level of protection of postal service users and raising the level of security of postal senders. Due to the inadequate definition of certain legal provisions in the applicable law and thus to prevent employees from responding to specific situations, certain problems and failures occurred, so that at one point we were in a completely absurd situation where the state managed to deal with illegal trade in streets and stands, so virtually all the traffickers of illegal goods moved on to postal packages and thus continued illegally trading in goods most frequently falsified or otherwise not registered for trade. In order to overcome the problems, this bill clearly provides for the right and obligations of the employees to receive and hand over postal shipments, which is to provide valuable and buying-in e-mails, as well as to provide the cash amount of the audit and record the number of personal IDs of postal service users. All of the above-mentioned activities, defined by law, of course, do not mean that illegal actions will no longer appear, but will certainly be reduced to a minimum precisely because the responsible persons in that chain will be easier to identify. The adoption of this law is equally important for citizens, businesses, postal and other entities, and its application allows for the progress of our country in both international and operational situations. The adoption of this law creates conditions for the universal postal service to be fully in line with the social, economic and technological environment in the Republic of Serbia. That's why the SNS will vote for the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62572	Thank you, colleague Krivokapic. The word has a folk MP, Dragana Kostic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62573	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with associates, MPs, citizens of Serbia, today we have a new Law on postal services, which is certainly aimed at raising the quality of postal services in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, as well as reducing the price of postal services and protecting the users of these services. However, what I would particularly draw attention to is the aspect of this new law, which is also to curb the gray economy. We remember in 2007 when the SBB refused to conclude a contract with the Post and when he sent notices of billing, and he did not deliver those accounts to the users of his services. However, there is no stopping this story, in 20013 and 2014 respectively, this same SBB shared accounts through its employees, and it did not want to establish contracts with Post, and in this way it was actually illegally informing its users about the collection. What I would particularly point out is that the PTT service regulator in Serbia is RATEL and that it has been really showing effective results lately, especially when intermediating between postal service users and the provider when it comes to extrajudicial disputes. What is the newspaper of this law is the issue of stamps and for this is a special organisational continent in the Post Office, which is "Serbia Marks". They issue stamps that can be regular, convenient and personalized. I'm very proud to say today that exactly the local self-government where I come from, from Soko Banja, that this year, at the initiative of the Serbian Tourist Organisation, she issued a suitable stamp that shows a picture of the medieval Soko City and Mount Rtanj. Marks are our moving museums and they are in any case promoting and marketing our country internationally. The newspaper in this law is also separate accounting, where costs are located by the stages of postal services, by types and units of postal services, which will in a very efficient way locate costs and will know exactly the net cost of a particular service. This does not apply to reserved postal services, but only to universal and this will in one way justify the resources allocated to postal services, and it is the Agency that should influence and control the quality of these services, as well as the prices of postal services. In the voting day, like all my members of the SNS, we will vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62574	Thank you, colleague Kostic. The word has a folk letter from Olivera Ognjanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62575	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, we have before us today very important laws concerning information security and postal services. Given that the ambition is both the national and strategic goal of the Republic of Serbia to become an EU member state, but also to increase its presence on the international stage and build its position in international negotiations on cybersecurity issues, the Republic of Serbia is monitoring, applying and practicing different principles that promote and adopt international organisations whose member it is. Thanks to high estimates for the fight against cybercrime, as well as for regulation in this area and the protection of key services, the Republic of Serbia is listed on a list of 69 countries according to the National Information Security Development Index. The construction of the National Data Centre in Kragujevac is one of the projects that should improve the work of the electronic administration. In addition to state-of-the-art infrastructure, the Data Centre will allow a faster, more efficient and safer electronic administration and will guarantee the security of data from Serbian citizens. The idea is to connect the database of importance to the functioning of the state administration into a centralized base. This will allow millions of savings for taxpayers and should facilitate the torment of citizens who could solve all matters with the state administration via a mobile phone or one trip to a public administration counter. It is about citizens having full communication with the state administration in the next three years being able to do it online, and the office for IT and e-Government is the first step in this direction. The use of information and communication technologies by the state, economy and citizens is increasing. Over 99% of businesses use internet connection, while more than 60% of households in Serbia have internet connections. According to MUP data, the number of reported high-tech crime crimes is growing 50% annually and attacks on state authorities' servers are increasingly common. Specially important is the safety of children, who use the Internet with mobile phones. Studies show that as many as two thirds of children were exposed to some kind of online risk, or digital violence and a dangerous situation. That is why it is very important to get to know, introduce different training and testing in order to increase this security. Thanks to efforts by the Serbian government, local self-governments are promoting information systems, IT officials' capacities and procedures for managing citizens' data. Training and workshops for employees and citizens are organized to raise awareness on this subject. The paper in the Proposal for a Law on postal services refers to the responsibility of the consignor and provides for a higher level of protection of postal service users. The responsibility of the postal operator and the compensation of the damage that the postal operator is required to compensate the user is very detailed. A chapter of postage stamps was arranged, which is also a newspaper. This bill for one of its objectives also has a fight against the gray economy. Obligations shall be introduced to identify and register the registering pine of the consignor’s personal documents, i.e. the recipients of the ransom, valuable and consignors, with a view to preventing money laundering, the financing of terrorism and the transport of goods of unregistered entities. What does that mean? This means that when sending and receiving consignments, postal operators will be obliged to make an insight into the user's personal ID with a photo and to record the registration number of the personal document in order to identify the identity of the sender, i.e. to legitize the senders and recipients. In case one of the parties refuses to show their ID, the delivery won't be able to be completed. The identification of the package sender, under current law, is optional. So it happens that the inspection in the control of the shipment finds excise goods, like cut tobacco, without being able to trace the sender. This law needs to be changed and mandatory identification introduced. By increasing e-commerce and by ordering via various internet stores, Serbia's Post Office sent over its counter around 100,000 packages. In 2018 alone, it earned a net profit of 2.3 billion dinars. Business revenues Last year's Post office revenues were 3.2% higher than planned and 0.2% higher than those achieved in 2017. In 2018, 457 million services were provided in the post office of Serbia, or more than 38 million services per month. Finally, I believe that the proposed laws are of great importance for the creation of digitalisation and modernisation of Serbia, which, with the commitment of President Aleksandr Vukic and the Government in every branch of the economy, shows huge progress and raises the standard of life of Serbian citizens. In the voting day, I will support all proposed laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62576	Thank you, colleague Ognjanović. The word has a folk letter from Natasha St. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62577	I thank you, Chairman Milicevic. Respected ministers with associates, respected fellow MPs, the possibility of information technology in the past few decades is primarily to facilitate business processes in the organisation, which has led to an unexpected situation. For these very reasons, business is becoming more dependent on this technology, and as a consequence, it has developed and rapidly spread the need to protect information technologies. In the past, while the system and computer network were isolated from external influences, technical persons were concerned, so to speak, outside the field of vision of other employees, until the moment a problem arises. It's different today. There's more and more e-commerce going on. Consumers and companies must be protected from fraud. Technological development brings new security problems where cyber attacks can significantly endanger business operations, functioning of state infrastructure and national security, while individuals, above all children, are increasingly at risk of attacks and fraud, blackmail and online abuse. We are very aware of the risks and open to digital transformation and ready for future challenges. The National Contact Centre for the Safety of Children on the Internet is hereby established, and through this centre, the ministry conducts counseling of children, parents, students and teachers, as well as all other citizens on the benefits and risks of Internet use and safe means of using new technologies. It is then possible to accept, report harmful, inappropriate and illegal content and behaviour on the Internet, i.e. to report endangered rights and children's interests. The Internet has good pages, but it's bad. Some of the Internet's good sides are definitely meeting interesting personalities, socializing, sharing new and useful knowledge. Then, the discovery of distant worlds, exciting data, sharing of your own knowledge, skills, discoveries, interactive entertainment and others. But there are also bad sides, it's stalking by paedophiles who falsely represent themselves and attract children, allegedly, sharing with them the same interests and needs, then exposure to incorrect, inappropriate and harmful content, data abuse, privacy abuse, isolation from the real world and ultimately dependence on the Internet. Cooperation on the information security plan was also established with the OSCE, and with the International Union for Telecommunications, the Academy of Electronic Administration of the Republic of Estonia, the DIPLO Foundation, the Swiss DIKEF. Information security concerns security risks related to ICT use, including data security, devices, network information systems, individual organisations. So this Information Security Act prescribes clear protection measures against security risks, as well as legal persons' responsibilities in ICT management and use processes. In March of this year, for example, a Protocol on the Co-operation of the Ministry of Trade, Tourism, Telecommunications and RATEL was signed in order to exchange data on incidents that may have a significant impact on the breach of ICT system information security of particular importance, and that at the end of last year the ministry signed a Co-operation Protocol with SANU, which includes the establishment of a Centre for the Protection of Privacy and Security in the Digital Space. The information security strategy envisions international co-operation in order to exchange information, knowledge, experience with the foreign network of national, professional and international security risk prevention centres in ICT systems. From all this, we are going to make the state of Serbia very responsible for the citizens and that it wants to protect them from possible abuses. It is also in line with the addition of this law, so I, as well as my colleagues from the SNS, will be happy to support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62578	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go, colleague Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62579	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, of course, should have passed a law on postal services that would correspond to the moment in which they are located, the market that regulates such services. What I can say was that there were various discussions about the results of the Post Office of Serbia's work, but I would like to point out that the former regime did not want to keep Serbia's post office owned by the Republic of Serbia. I remember very well when the law was passed in 2010, when the Post Office of Serbia was placed in a very unequal position, and that the terrible investments they had were aimed at making the financial post office of Serbia as weak as possible and that they could not participate equally in the postal service market. That a whole system was collapsing, and the former regime was doing it very plannedly but it was always seen that something was earned when they were destroying something of state property, I guess I don't need Serbian citizens to remind, here are citizens of the city of Belgrade, that, let's say, Infostan didn't have a contract with the Post Offices of Serbia, but rather private enterprises, very close to the mayor of that time, Dragan Gilas. The same situation was with Serbia's Elektroprivreda. So a good part of the market owned by a republican, or public operator, postal operator owned by the Republic of Serbia was given to private companies. The goal was to eventually declare Serbia's Post office a failed company and be sold for small money. Very cheap. Nisa's leadership since the Post Office of Serbia was unable to do so at the time because the legislation adopted in 2010 contributed to Serbia's lack of Serbia's postal needs, it does not need its citizens. Of course, I'd go back to this story about abuse and the market that was taken over by other private companies. They didn't do it by just being told, they had to pay back one good part of their profits to those who gave them the job. There is probably an answer to my often asked question – where did four and a half billion euros of foreign reserves disappear from 2008 to 2012? It ended up in an exclusive so-called. "tax heavens" and now I can say, we have a strange situation for a postal operator to appear as a politician. You know, I guess the man was convinced when money was coming out of Serbia, otherwise, usually when it's cash, it's usually money acquired illegally or plans to be used for illegal purposes, so now one of the postal operators shows up as well, Mr. Bastic. So he's the man they say caught in a customs offense. I can't call it that. I can't even call a courier. A man has been caught in a serious crime scene and on a number of grounds. If you look at Mr Bastac's property map, I will not read any specific data, but in his application given to the Anti-Corruption Agency, and any citizen can gain insight into it, it says that the deposit and savings stakes in banks and other financial organisations in the country and abroad are not available. It is an application that has been in place since 28.01.2010, which means the start of the Anti-Corruption Agency. In the next report, which was submitted on 3 April 2014, there are no deposits in the country and abroad. In the third application submitted by Mr Marko Bastic, I still call him a gentleman, says there is no deposit in the country and abroad, 25.05.2016. The fourth and last application, since 22.06.2017, also says there are no deposits in the country and abroad. However, there I now stop calling him a gentleman, because he does not deserve such an adjudication, which is, the citizens of Serbia should know that he is the president of the municipality and that he receives from the budget of the municipality, and part of the budget of the city of Belgrade, 102,000 dinars as compensation for the work of the president of the municipality, which I absolutely have no objection to, although it is a higher salary than the parliamentary one, but here it is. However, Marko Bastac is also receiving compensation as a member of the Old Town Council, another 104,000 dinars. I just need to meet the citizens of Serbia and Belgrade, that the president of the municipality is a member and president of the municipal council. On one basis, he receives two fees. Now I'm going to call him a real name, an ordinary thief, because this is illegal. He receives salary as the president of the municipality, who is also a member of the municipal council and has no right to another fee, because the function is required under the law for the president of the municipality. Now, he's a little 206,000, but at the expense of Old Town Municipality, he's traveling to Dubai. To say that it's also legal, she probably has all the consent she needs, but now I don't understand one other thing. If he doesn't have a deposit abroad, and he doesn't have deposits in the country, where does he get more than 10,000 euros? We still don't know as MPs what amount it is. All we know is that it is more than 10,000 euros, because it is a limit that can be introduced into the Republic of Serbia without a specific application of the origin of the money. I read now that it's money that comes from a friend of his who also carries it to a friend for treatment. I don't know if I look exactly like a squirrel or if I button back in the 21st century, at a time of digital technology, you transfer money. Nobody does that in a backpack. The bank transaction fee is five euros. One more thing, in Dubai the euro isn't much of a currency. It's a dollar. Bastach obviously doesn't know things, so he can't even lie right or it's because they're short feet in a lie. So, a crime has been committed not to report property, under the Anti-Corruption Agency Act, for which a sentence of six months to five years has been prevented. The other thing is to check where the money came from. Here, I'm telling you that money, it's just a small part, we can't even call it, which was stolen from Serbia from here until 2012, just one small part. Now they need some of that money. Hatred against Alexander Vukic by rounding up Mark Bastac is not free. Even so, people who hate are pretty cheap. He will pay them 100, 200 euros to burn books, to fight citizens passing through the Republic Square, to tear down fences, to rip out signs. It is a picture made of Serbia by Marko Bastic, Dragan Dilas and the former regime, and are still threatening the deputy mayor, they will arrest someone, likely to distract them from this affair. So it's impossible for that money to come from legal flows and the question arises and I ask the authorities now – where did the money, for which purposes, need money to be used and what is the guilt of the Bastac thief, who receives for the same job of two salaries? They've gone beyond what I've seen in politics. I saw that they had five, six functions while they were in power, and besides the MPs, they had one board of directors, the other board of directors, the third board of directors, there were counselors in some state body somewhere, to say, it wasn't moral, but they wrote laws to be legal. Now, since there are no more double functions, now we're going to take double salaries, for the same job we do, and what we do is we hate Vukic, we're going to rip out the signs, we're going to beat up citizens who are going down the street, we're going to threaten the political unsuspecting, and we're smuggling money to fund it all, or we're going to pay back to our thugs one part of the money that we stole from all of Serbia's citizens. Well, it's a good thing we're passing this Postage Services Act, so thieves like Bastic will never be able to do anything else in the Republic of Serbia, either by this or by any other law. And it is time to send them to the first next election, which in a few months, are finally in political history, but finally the judiciary, prosecutors and judges to do their job and send them to prison for everything they've done to Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62580	Thank you. The word has a national letter from Studenka Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62581	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected ministers, respected citizens of Serbia, I have repeatedly noted that after the difficult economic reforms that the SNS began to implement in 2014, less than five years later, when the results of successful fiscal consolidation are clearly visible, we are also committed to many other matters of importance to society, as are today's proposals for laws relating to the modernisation of postal services. The postal services have a really long tradition and, apparently, the Post Office of Serbia enjoys the confidence of a large number of citizens. This proposal creates, above all, conditions for improving the development of the postal services market. An efficient and quality postal service, especially in the goods transfer sector, has an impact on the economy, as well as on society in general. The postal service market is one of the factors affecting the growth of the economy, affecting employment. There are about 15,000 employees working in the Post Office of Serbia alone. And when we talk about the Post Office of Serbia as the largest business system of this kind in the country, the net profit this company has achieved over the past year is 2.3 billion dinars. I hope that the development of the postal services market will also increase the revenues of this company. The newspaper prescribed by this bill is a far higher level of responsibility for the damage caused to the shipments. More precisely, rights and obligations of users and postal operators have been specified in order to avoid abuses and denials of liability. What is also a newspaper is the introduction of an obligation by an authorised postal service provider to adapt access, i.e. access to postal network facilities and to adapt postal terminals to the needs of disabled persons, so that they are allowed to perform their postal services uninterruptedly. Furthermore, the effects of this law will also be visible in the field of electronic postal services, which will contribute to the development of small and medium-sized enterprises that place their products or sell via electronic trade and deliver to customers across the country and abroad via postal operators. A more efficient and secure delivery is expected to contribute greatly to the increase in the size of this type of business, and the ultimate goal is, of course, greater economic growth, and we know that both small and medium-sized enterprises are a very important element of the overall Serbian economy. Speaking of the Serbian economy, it will be richer for two more factories to be opened in the next period, one in Pancheva, one in Stari Pazova. German investments are of great importance for the Serbian economy and for young people who will work in these factories for a salary of 1,700 euros net on average. As I said at the beginning of the presentation, it is done on every segment that can ensure a higher level of development, higher economic growth and higher employment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62582	Thank you, colleague Kovacevic. The word has the People's MP, Zvonimir Djokic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62583	Thank you, dear colleague. Dear Minister, honourable Members of the People, we have before us proposals for laws concerning, above all, postal services and confirmation of acts of the World Postal Federation. On the way to the digitisation of Serbia, which implies the maximum use of information technologies in all areas of life and the work of our society, and especially in all areas of business, it is necessary to adopt new legal solutions in the area of providing postal services with the aim of achieving greater levels of protection, the rights of postal service users and postal operators, however many there are, raising the security of postal shipments, encouraging competition on the market and ultimately bringing them into line with EU legislation. Most importantly, in my opinion, the changes relate to the area of dispatch and reception of senders and obligations of senders, postal service providers and recipients of consignments. This is very important, if we consider dizzy growth and the development of electronic trade, that is, electronic trade across the world and in Serbia. I'll give you a few facts that talk about it. More than 1.8 million people in Serbia bought or ordered goods and services by electronic means last year, while 73.4% of citizens used the internet. In 2018, 30.9% of people used electronic trade compared to 2011 when it was 18%. It's a big shift. However, around 45% of internet users have never bought goods in this way, which suggests that while electronic trade in Serbia has not been growing in recent years, it has not yet been sufficiently developed. In the international index of the digital economy and society, Serbia from 45 seats, which we took in 2013, managed to climb 34 places. In addition, in the Internet use category, our country is in front of many countries in the environment. Electronic trade has won the world, and it is assumed that by 2030 about 85% of businesses will be taking place in the form of electronic trade. For example, China is currently the largest market for buying and selling by electronic means. More than 40% of the world's electronic transactions take place in that country. It is important for us to remove in the next period all obstacles that make it difficult for us to develop electronic trade in Serbia so that we can develop Serbia's economy in line with the trends of the world's largest electronic markets, such as, for example, Chinese or American. All over the world online stores are increasingly replacing traditional shops every day. The best indicator of the success of electronic stores is special trade days, such as so-called "Strengthens". I believe you heard "Self Day" that brought Chinese giant Alibabi more than $30 billion in just 24 hours, in one day. However, electronic shopping in Serbia is not yet in line with EU laws and standards, which also shows frequent complaints about the quality of delivered products, but also fraud. Many cases are when consumers order a product that never arrives, when their rights are not told, when they cannot advertise the product and when they get something quite different from what they have sent online shops or social networks. It is therefore important that by adopting this Law on postal services and harmonising with European directives, we agree legal solutions with EU legislation, and we will raise postal services to a higher level of quality. I think these bill proposals are acceptable and that we can and should adopt them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62584	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Ljiljana Malusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62585	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers with co-workers from the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, today is on the daily proposal for a Law on Postage Services, but also a Bill on Confirmation of Acts of the World Postal Union, as well as a Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Information Security Act. The proposed laws aim to improve postal services, and above all safety. The World Postal Union, a few sentences, I'm going to do this, because we've been hearing about laws all day, make up 192 Member States, 29 industrially developed and 163 developing countries. All these Member States shall be associated with the aim of the uniform and quality provision of international postal services. The World Postal Union is a non-political organisation and does not deal with internal issues of organisation and operation of postal traffic by Member States. Member States accept the obligation to apply the regulation of the World Postal Union in international postal traffic. The World Postal Federation aims to ensure sustained sustainable development, quality, more efficient, available, universal postal services. If I didn't count anymore, I'd have something a little different right now, and that's what you can get through the mail in the packages. In the post office of Belgrade, a shipment of dried fruit found 435 grams of liquid cocaine, the source of "Tanjug" in 2015. In May of the same year, customs officers prevented the smuggling of 90 grams of cocaine from Brazil, which was discovered in a postal shipment from Sao Paolo. The shipment was sent to a Serbian citizen from Belgrade, with three tubes in the package that were registered as cosmetic creams. Imagine, please, cosmetic cream. Customs, our customs officers, because in 2012, it looks completely different, Serbia's MUP is doing its job, police and customs, so an enormous amount of drugs has been seized. Let's move on. On April 11th, customs officials at the Belgrade Post Office, the control of postal shipments arriving from abroad, revealed a small amount of intoxicated cannabis drugs, or marijuana. A shipment arriving from the Netherlands for a Serbian citizen revealed two cannabis bags of tea or cannabis, two cannabidol vessels, mints of cannabis and syringes, according to the Customs Administration. A similar situation occurred in early January 2014, when cocaine from Peru was seized in liquid form, hidden in 126 plastic balls, camouflaged in dry fruit, imagine. Police and Customs Administration, fortunately, had prevented smuggling in the previous period, but not as in 2012, drug use through postal shipments from abroad, from Brazil, Peru and the Netherlands, but also from other destinations. Well done for the M.O.P., for the police and customs. Well done, Mr. Minister, Mr. Stefanovic. In August 2018, a channel cutting cocaine in a postal shipment was smuggled from South America to EU and Serbian countries. Then two people from Belgrade were arrested in action by the Smederjev police on suspicion of organising cocaine smuggling from South America. That's terrible. Now you'll see something else very strange. Commissioners for postal services in collaboration with representatives of the police administration and environmental inspectors carried out extraordinary field surveillance in Jagodina after a damaged postal package sent from Jagodina to Novi Sad was found alive. In the damaged mail package, the snake was found, and according to the current Law on Post Offices, the content of the postal shipment is prohibited. It's okay. But imagine the man who took it and maybe he didn't know, so he'd probably be dead. Given the many dangers that can arise as a result of the sending of unauthorized shipments, the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications has improved existing legislation to further protect citizens from such situations. In this regard, the proposal for a postal service law has been drawn up, we are just talking about it, which will contribute to the introduction of mandatory identification of the senders of the ransom, valuable and consignors with a personal handover and the registration of the registration number of the personal documents of the consignors, i.e. the recipients of those documents. All these SNSs will vote on all these bill proposals in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62586	Thank you. The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62587	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Honorable ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen MPs, information security is part of every country's general security. Security, security, peace and stability are a prerequisite for economic progress and the development of each country. It is the policy of the SNS, it is the policy of Aleksandra Vukic and that is what SNS and Aleksandar Vukic work on every day and what they strive on. I'll look back at the amendments and additions to the Information Security Act, first of all, from the aspect of child protection on the Internet. Before that, I would like to say that Serbia has actually entered the fourth industrial revolution since 2015, and the fourth industrial revolution concerns digitisation and the use of new information technologies, above all, from the point of view of improving the quality of life of each of our citizens and the fact that each of our citizens' services that he requests are available in a quick and efficient manner without many procedures and without the circumstantial workmen and carrying with them a bunch of items. However, information progress, digitisation, of course, carries some risks. That is why it is the obligation of each regulated state, and Serbia is also a well-organised and democratic state, to make up a risk assessment as well as a plan to protect against possible damages that can be caused by the use of social networks, above all I think of the Internet. I must point out that since 2017, the Department of Commerce has established a National Centre for Information on Child Safety Threatening. In addition to receiving notice and giving advice, it forwarded all these calls to the competent authorities to take measures and activities to protect children, in accordance with their respective competences. I must point out that since 2017, the National Centre has received about 8,000 calls. But also what I have to point out and what is certainly commendable is the recognition that only through education, only through raising awareness and only through going to health homes, only through going to school, only by talking to students and teachers can we increase the level of child protection against the risks that they face online. In that sense, I would like to point out that the program has led to 150 homes of health, that educations have been made by the directors of health homes, psychologists of health homes, pediatricians, that there has been a conversation with more than 12,000 children, with about 5,000 parents, and at 112 schools. I also have to point out that the IT caravan went to 58 schools, that they were also working on interactive communication with children, that they were doing creative workshops and that 800 schools were involved through a presentation from Nis and Novi Pazar. Of course I want to point out that the M.O.P. is because there's a Department of High-Tech Crime Prevention in the I.P. I must point out that for the first six months in the MUP, 23 persons who shared pornographic content were registered, arrested and processed. We hope, i.e. we know that the police have prosecuted and arrested the perpetrators of this crime, but we hope that these perpetrators were not tried by Judge Miodrag Majic because he has a special empathy towards them, so the pedofile is largely released from prison. I also have to point out that within the framework of the Ministry of Higher Technology Crime, this year the Department for Combating Unauthorized and Harmful Content is open on the Internet and that the Ministry of Education is working very hard to protect children from harmful content on the Internet through the thematic lectures in both the fourth and sixth classes and through collaboration with teachers and teachers, students and parents. Finally, the SNS will support the proposed laws and once again underline that the security, security and peace of every citizen, and especially those most sensitive, children, are very important to the SNS and we will all do that, as MPs, the legislative framework fits them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62588	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Milan Ljubic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62589	Thank you. The Honored Chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected MPs, postal work is an area whose development has been followed by the development of society and is a key part of the modern communications sector. This transport sector remains one of the drivers of overall development and is of vital importance and is therefore listed in services of general economic interest. The reason for the adoption of the new law is to raise the quality of postal services, more efficient operation of the postal network and the development of the postal services market. The bottom line is that new solutions will contribute to a higher level of consumer protection, better security of postal shipments and more affordable service prices. In order to further comply with the rules more precisely and in more detail, procedures have been defined. Given the changes in the market, increasing the number of services as well as constant changes in service requirements it was necessary to create conditions in ensuring a greater level of protection of service users and raising the level of security of senders. New legal solutions, such as the required responsibility and obligation of certain postal operators, but also the responsibility of senders for the selection of services and equipment of consignments in an adequate package will certainly contribute to further increasing the safety of senders and achieving the level of quality and safety standards. The development of the postal services sector can have a significant impact on the business of all operators. In addition to new types of postal services, but also reduced postage as a result of higher and healthy competition, it will allow citizens to benefit from it multiplely with an increase in speed and a reduction in service prices. With more productivity, stability and sustainable growth, we will have more revenue achieved, but also greater investment in this sector, which is significant. In this way, better quality and accessible services will be provided that will be enriched by new e-mail services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62590	Thank you. The word is from the MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62591	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers Djordjevic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here we are today talking about a bill on postal services, information security, confirming the World Postal Union act. With the proposed solution, we are also fighting the grey economy. It must have happened to each of us that we used to order something online, for example. For the sake of the safety of sellers and customers, what I have seen in the draft of this bill is a proposal to leave personal data to the courier when sending and receiving the shipment and to be kept for at least a year. The postal operators, if adopted, would be obliged to make an insight into the personal correcting of the user with the photograph and to record the number of IDs. This data would be kept for a minimum year and treated as a business secret, of course it would have to be in accordance with the Personal Data Protection Act. I believe that since our country is being modernised and more and more people are ordering things online or electronically, that this is a good solution. The Serbian government has set a reduction in the size of the grey economy as one of the priorities, so in 2017 and 2018 it was declared a year of fighting the gray economy. The fight continues and Serbia's government adopted an Action Plan to implement a national programme to combat the grey economy. It is about a comprehensive plan that should create an even better economic environment in Serbia. On the one hand, curbing the grey economy will give benefits to citizens, but on the other hand, all citizens would have to engage and take an active part in this fight against the gray economy, along with all state bodies with institutions, with organisations and with the economy. Active participation of the economy and citizens will further encourage public administration authorities to do their jobs more effectively, but also to promote mechanisms within their competences to raise awareness of the effects caused by the grey economy. So what we have to work on is a better understanding of citizens about what really is a gray economy, which are its consequences for the standard of living of citizens. Furthermore, there is their education on how to identify and how to report the gray economy and ultimately, we must also work to strengthen trust in the country in a way that is available to budgets. Speaking of budgets, which could be damaged, for example by tax evasion, we were able to see in the media that there were those who didn't care much about the Republic of Serbia's budget before. I must say, "Informer" transmitted the information published by the Maltese newspaper "Malta Today" that Dragan Solak bought Malta's citizenship to avoid paying taxes in Serbia. Apparently, Šolak and Gilas founded the Gaming Services company in Malta, which was one of the things that could allow them potential tax evasion. I just cited this as one bad example so that citizens know how important the subject we're talking about is, when I say we're talking about a gray economy and that this kind of behavior is in no way the way that the state is being helped to be organized, financially stable and developed country. Since every draft law here in the National Assembly shows that these are the intensities of the Serbian government, I will join my colleagues in the SNS parliamentary group and in the voting day to support these proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62592	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62593	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today is the 296th day that MPs of the opposition do not come to their jobs, for which they receive their salary neatly. But what I expected was that at least the head of the DS parliamentary group, Goran Ciric, today made an exception and came to the Assembly when we talk about mail, postal services, postal traffic. If you're wondering why he is, because he's the senior executive of JP "Post of Serbia", he used to be the director of the company, and today he's a senior executive, if I'm not mistaken for a special advisor to the director. He's getting a big salary there, I think it's 150,000 dinars, so it was an ideal opportunity for him to come to the National Assembly to give us the latest information when it comes to the functioning of the company. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have also heard in the debate so far all the arguments why we should adopt the proposed laws, how they will affect citizens as postal service users and businesses, economic operators, postal operators and all other entities that are covered, to say, by the proposed solutions. All the solutions that you ministers have talked about are heading towards the development of small and medium-sized enterprises that will be able to place and sell their products via electronic trade, given the development of electronic trade. Next, implementation of the EU Postal Directives, adapting new market requirements, contributing to preventing illegal trade through postal packages, protecting consumer rights, postal service users, etc. It is very important that we modernise the area of postal services, postal traffic, to modernise not only JP "Plats of Serbia", but every area that belongs to so-called "Plats of Serbia". Public sector. I also think about public enterprises and institutions and state administration and local self-government and everything else. One of the basic preconditions for this is to prevent all kinds of nepotism. These days, a video that is spreading on social networks, in which the main actor is the one Marko Bastic, who was told by one of the previous speakers, Veroljub Arsic, who is visiting on one show, confirms that his entire narrow and wider relatives were on the electoral list he led. So, the election list for local elections in Stari Grad municipality. This is what it looks like. The host asks – when it comes to DS, in the 12th place of your list of DS for the Old Town elections is your wife's sister, Milica Lazic. Marko Bastac says – that's right. The host further asks – your wife is in 18th place on that list. Marko Bastac says – that's right. The host asks further – is your sister Bojan Dimitrijevic's husband in 14th place, according to the hairdresser's profession, and your sister Ana Dimitrijevic is behind him? Marko Bastac - that's right. The host further asks – your cousin Nemanja Jankovic is in 16th place? Marko Bastac says – that's right. The host further asks – are the following data true, that your wife's godmother is married in the 19th place? Marko Bastac says – well, that's not true. Leader – 21st place is the mother of your married godmother and behind her two sisters of your married godmother Dejan Stojanović? Marko Bastac says – mother is, but two godmothers are not. So this is a prime example of nepotism, and that's not all. The media is writing a lot about Bastac's nepotism, so "Alo" published a detailed list of all those he hired in the municipality of Stari Grad, as well as at the sports centre "25". May’. We also have that his sister, Ana Bastac, worked at the sports center for three years. Nemanja Jankovic, a contract to work indefinitely, earns 40,000 dinars. We have, Marko Mandic, that's probably a councilman in the Old Town, a contract to work indefinitely, earning about 76,000 dinars. Well, Nikola Rodic, contract for work indefinitely, 76,000 dinars. Well, Milica Vulić, Contracting temporary business, and Nikola Vilotijevic, then Igor Majer, Nemanja Svabić, Iva Pajic. So these last contracts are for temporary occasional business. Ana Dimitrijevic is Marko Bastic's sister, while Nemanja Jankovic is his cousin. So these are the top examples of nepotism in the Belgrade municipality of Stari Grad. I would like to say that as long as we have examples of superior nepotism, we can't count on an efficient public sector, on an efficient administration, and that's something we have to deal with in the next period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62594	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62595	Dear Vice President of the National Assembly, Mr. Minister Djordjevic and his associates, I am pleased to see you very often in this high house, which speaks of you and your relationship to work and your commitment to the work you do. Dear People's MPs, the rapid development of postal traffic has led to a large number of postal operators, which means regulation of postal services, and all this to bring our legislation into line with EU legislation. I won't talk about it because my distinguished fellow MPs were pretty good at it and very detailedly speaking. Let me just point out that the law will contribute to raising the quality of postal services, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, better functioning of the postal network, and all this expensive development of the postal services market in general. What is important, which I think is very important to emphasise, among other things, is the paper in the draft law, and they relate mainly to, among other things, to the responsibility of postal service providers and the obligation of a public postal operator, to allow other postal operators access to the network, etc. This law, I note, is in line with the Law on Infringements, the Law on Inspectives and the Consumer Protection Act, among other things. In particular, the chapter of the postage stamps, which represents a newspaper in relation to the applicable law, has been carefully examined. This law will contribute to the overall quality of postal services, which will lead to an increase in the quality and lower prices of postal services, which is very important for our citizens in general. I am sorry, honourable Members of the People, that today there are none of these from the Alliance for Serbia, that we cross our views, and also about these laws, but also about other laws, but they deal with their own personal problems. Let me just say that one of them, which Mr. Markovic spoke about in detail, Mr. Bastic, once again, to point out, and also Mr. Arsic, that Marko Bastic has introduced more than 12,000 euros from Dubai, which the law did not allow. As Mr. Arsic said, the Agency's report says he had no savings, neither in the country nor abroad. The question now arises, how much is it and did Marko Bastic export money from Serbia? Word is, word is, he's not yet been checked out, that he's making millions of money for Dragan Gilas as his party's vice president. Speaking of this Bastache, let me say a few more sentences. First, he was elected president of the Old Town Municipality in 2016 in front of the Democratic Party, leaving the DS in December. I'm saying this for the citizens to see what kind of man it is. Not only about him, but about all the leaders of the Alliance for Serbia. On his list of councilmen in Old Town, he said, Mr. Markovic, put the whole family. What I was checking, not what he admitted, is that his wife was on the list, her sister, his sister and her husband, then her cousin and mother, her godfather, six councilmen. When asked -- why did he do it, he replied, in order not to switch to other political parties, and thus Marko Bastic introduced the newspaper into political culture, the democratic political culture of the Republic of Serbia. The Democratic Party has launched criminal charges and criminal proceedings against Bastac over the issue of party bonds while the account was blocked by a million and 200,000 dinars. He was accused of using the money for his campaign in the Old Town municipality. Along with his supporters, he daily hitchhiked works in the Republic Square, caused incidents and made traffic more difficult. As you know, respected Belgrade citizens, in front of the city institutions of Belgrade, brought toilet paper, land and mud. That's the Marco Bastache. He participated in the burning of Goran Vesic's book and his lynching and threatened him several times with a slap. I must say, in the past, books have burned the darkest forces of the Nazis. The German Nazis personally bombed the National Library of Serbia on Hitler's request to destroy the identity of Serbs, and General Ler said that the National Library of Serbia should be bombed at the request of Hitler, I quote -- because it keeps cultural with the Serb people, a quote completed. By destroying and burning the book on Belgrade, Mr. Vesic, he was somehow ordered by the Djiki Mafia. It's about Dragan Gilas, the Giki Mafia, because he entered politics as a common gologous, and ended up leaving politics when he had over 500m euros, to destroy telling about Belgrade, that was the goal of burning, as well as saying in 1941, the bombing of the National Library on Serbian Code, so on the same principle they have now done, because the Alliance for Serbia, respected citizens, as you can see, oppose everything that is being built in Belgrade, all that is more beautiful and better to the satisfaction of all our citizens, and to their truly misfortune. In addition, he owed a sports centre, which suffered huge damages, delayed workers' salaries and damaged them for millions of debts. He's not the only one. This is an example of the uniqueness of other members of the Alliance for Serbia. Let me say, however, that something unusual has happened these days in our political practice, which is at the celebration of the 800 years of SPC's self-certification, was also invited by academic Matija Bećkovic, in a people known as the academic song. That academic when he heard that Alexander Vukic was going to be given the Holy Sava Order in the first degree, he didn't want to come. Personally, I don't think he had the place, academic Beckovic, at the rally. Why? Because he said at the DEPOS rally in 1993, I quote -- that the people who voted for Slobodan Milosevic deserve nothing more than to bomb, finished the quote. It's this great academic, and it's not his place to celebrate the 800-year autokefality of the SPC. The same academic supported an option that led to the collapse of the SRJ. You, honourable MPs, remember very well, as well as Serbia-Montenegro. He advocated an option whose authorities declared KIM independence. Nothing else is better. Sergei Trifunovic, a people known as Sergei Pishoi. Why? Because he said, quote -- he's going to pee on the grave of the President of the Republic, Alexander Vukic, finished a quote. That's the one who's known as Sergei, in the people famous for the very strange behavior of this Sergei Trifunovic. Why is he acting weird? Well, it's also known for saying one gram for right now, and two grams to carry, so he's acting like you've seen these days. Sergei Trifunovic, in the people's well-known writings by Alexander Vukic, the president of the Republic of Serbia, called it "the bald beef" to finish a quote, in a video he made on vacation, nowhere but Indonesia, where he went after the scandal when he performed journalist RTS Oliver Jovicevic alluding to commit prostitution. She's the one who filed a criminal charges against him. Otherwise, Trifunović was secretly in the United States in early 2019 on skiing in “Aspen”, the most expensive ski resort in the world, the paraluxic summer in Dubrovnik, Pula, Tivt, and now in Bali, Indonesia, where he tells us very terrible and disgusting messages. So the destination that's on the list is just the ones that have the deepest pockets. I am not going to tell the others and others are no better those leaders of the Alliance for Serbia, these days we have spoken, let me just end up with a quote by the great St.St. Bashara, otherwise our former ambassador who is a supporter of DS, who said for all the variants of DS, said in January 21, 2019, quote: "The Democratic Party is a self-adjusted community of mules and thieves," finished the quote, exactly. You've seen respected citizens on the case of this Mark Bastache. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62596	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62597	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, as said in today's debate, perhaps the most important motivation for the adoption of the proposed laws is the need to meet modern challenges in a modern way, to find solutions in line with the needs of the 21st century. This applies to different sectors. Among other things, they are directly in the function of development and business, but still infrastructure, i.e. adequate use of modern infrastructure in the domain of information and communication technologies and the proposals we are discussing here. This certainly has, above all, to do with those opinions that we have heard from the government representatives, but also from the MPs who spoke today, of course, with a proper attitude towards education in Serbia and with an appropriate attitude towards the need to further improve the processes when it comes to our administration. These laws are indeed a good answer to this kind of need and our constant desire to further modernise Serbia in a successful way. Serbia is already doing so today, and it does, it can be said, with an envious success. This is also the subject of programmes that are in the immediate function of education as regards the introduction of contemporary subjects from the so-called so-called IT domains in our schools also concern the introduction of a fast broadband internet into those schools, when we talk about programs that start and really promise. One program is also called “The Schools of the 21st Century”. It will be interesting for those who have not yet heard of what it refers to, 367,500 students from the fifth to eighth grade in Serbia will learn from the school's 21st century basic programming skills, critical thinking and problem solving programme. This will be realised at the level of all 1,150 primary schools in our country, because it will be financed by the purchase of microcomputers, micro-bit devices, so small computers on which our students will work and learn the skills of programming. Compare this as a situation in education, basic education in today's Serbia with what each of us remembers when he remembers his time in elementary school, or the period he spent there. The difference is more than clear. It is one of the real answers to the needs of the 21st century, the modern age and once again, one of the things that are in today's Serbia's reality. When we talk about what is real in today's Serbia, and this domain is about reminding ourselves together. All that we have already realized through the projects of the E-Government, and it refers to a long list of different services that have made it easier for companies in our country to operate directly, but also to easier lives for our citizens, i.e. more suitable ways to realise their needs. These are services such as "Bebo Welcome to the World" which is implemented in two phases, a system for access to data by official duty, the famous eZUP, the E-recept in the field of health protection, the E-katstar, the e-registration of seasonal workers that we discussed with you, Mr. Minister, a few weeks ago in this room, the information system of local tax administrations LPA, e-registration and E-Wrtić, which are particularly popular with parents in Serbia today, automatic overa health card, electronic payments at the level of the E-Government Portal, e-data, e-logs of residence to foreigners, e-convincing of different species. When we talk about it, and that is what we're talking about today, whether the state is properly setting itself up according to the needs of so-called. The IT sector in Serbia, let's turn the data one more time and see if the sector in Serbia is working well, doing well and whether additional perspectives are opening up in this country. You're data, like every time you're inexorable. They say that the growth of exports of services in the domain of information and communication technologies in Serbia seems like this: 2017 - growth 21.7%; 2018 - growth, so compared to 2017, I just mentioned, new 26.2%; 2019 - at a half-year level of 30% and we are already estimated to be close to the value of one billion euros in exports, only from this domain. These are indicators that Serbia refers to the needs of being a modern state, an efficient society that can organise its tasks at the level of administration, but it can do well and can do so in a competitive way to compete with everyone in the world. That's what we manage to secure today in Serbia. This is our reality and some kind of perspective for our plan on how we're going to develop Serbia further and when SNS says -- the digital future of Serbia, well, we're thinking about these things. So, for all this good we've managed to implement already, of course, the ambitious plans we have ahead of us. But what's done here, I think it's more than clear evidence that what's planned is real. What's on the other side? What are those who try to compete for the question in Serbia on their own behalf? Look, also mentioned today, "bound", as they are already called, Đilas, Jeremic, "dvores", Boška Obradovica, the remains of DS, listen only in rare moments when they silence their unfeeling hysteria, when they don't wave to the gallows, when they don't break into the media, when they don't threaten with motor saws, when books don't publicly burn on fires as Nazis in the '30s, when they at least try to at least text and suggest, what is it and how it sounds? Can there be at least something that will be able to compare to this type of result that we are already delivering to the citizens? Your moments are rare. Then they usually talk about their intention to rule, to be, of course, without a choice, then they talk about having a significant quest to come to that power as soon as possible immediately and to be influenced by some supreme power, in any way just not by the voices of the people. Why not? Because it is impossible for these people to come to any power, anywhere in Serbia the voices of the people and they know it very well. You've already heard of their fantastic plans, that I want them to be ministers, that they want to be at the head of public enterprises, that they want to be at the head of local self-government and that it lasts at least nine months, and that it doesn't only violate democracy and people's will, but it violates the Constitution, just so that their authority lasts. Most of the time, you know that very well, for this story was in charge of Bosko Obradovic, this Ljatician by vocality, so I guess along with him somehow he's going to talk about wanting something by force of God, and the opposite of democracy. Somehow, they abstained from talking about it to others, who should be more serious about it. However, some of you have spoken. No less or less, here I am, Dragan Gilas, the other day, for one of their Sundays, it's "New Magazine", number 17 October 2019. Well, the same thing that Bosko Obradovic says, all so smart and wise, he convinced himself in his own way and called for, for example, northern Macedonia. Says the man - Well, did they have a Przinski agreement there, so it was written that he was moving from power, so the prosecutor and the government are being introduced -- well, that's where he thinks of this government of Boška Obradovica, to say -- here, here you are, you are now ministers, so choose who's going to be the minister, so now you're going to rule without any people asking, or you've got one single vote from anyone, as you couldn't even get it, of course. Well, the working body to monitor the work of the service, and everything so nice, and it says, "That's how it was defined, so we don't copy it." So they're hoping for it and that's the basic plan. But what will you offer the people that you will do when you come to power so beautiful and clever? Here, let's all pretend that you showed up from Mars yesterday and that you were never in the country of Serbia and you weren't doing anything, and yes, we remember very well what it looked like - what are you going to do? Says Dragan Gilas, in the same number, only on the next side, so first of all, what he doesn't want. He says they won't make highways. So, these highways that Serbia has today, which it has built because it first consolidated the Serbian economy, which it built because we first improved the state register situation, and then we were able to deal with the needs that we have, not for a year, two or ten, but for decades, highways like the Milos Great highway, highways like the southern leg of Corridor 10, which is already finished, the east, which will be over very quickly, it says -- well, that's totally unnecessary for us. Literally, a man says, I'll read you that sentence: "senseless highways." Syntagma. Why pointless? He says, "Well, there's no one passing by, who else drives between Serbian cities, specifically between Kruševac and Chačka?" He says -- we can only do two strips on one side and on the other, and that's more than enough. Now, what they didn't do on one side or the other, in that or any other place, let alone two, in that or any other place, is we totally understand why. They were people busy. They had better things to do. They had more urgent needs. If he had built highways, or any roads, or lanes, one, two or three, Dragan Gilas, he would have spent valuable time as it was, while he was all and everyone in Serbia, while he was also mayor and minister, spending on his own companies, on their nice business, all with state-owned enterprises, and all with city businesses. So it was working with RTS, you know very well, so it was also done with Telecom, and you heard about it, and it was also done with Studio B, so it worked with God knows how many city institutions, so it would accumulate on a pile in a straw of 619m euros, modestly. That took time and resources, so, of course, there was no time for roads and highways. But what it was like, we remember it very well. But what he's telling us today is that he still doesn't think we need it, is that we don't know who in Serbia will be able to convince that he's right that our highways are pointless. Probably people who are used to moving in some other way get used to air traffic. I don't know what their life habits are, but that's their message to Serbia and that's their offer. And what else? Self-management, I'm not kidding, I'm really saying it, and nationalization. This is what Dragan Gilas offers in his fantastic economic programme - self-government and nationalisation. Now, if you're wondering what the proposal here is for modern European society, for the 21st century state, well, nothing. What Dragan Gilas offers, it's not even European society, it's not even a modern state, it's not even the answer to modern needs anywhere in the world. That's what it is -- that's Albania's Envera Hodge. So, what makes Serbia and its people another Dragan Gilas, that is Albania's Envera Hoxhe who seems to be also a certain kind of political and life model to Alibino Kurti. You've heard of this man. That is why it is not surprising that in the same text, only on page 22 you can find the nice words that Dragan Gilas has to say at the expense of the aforementioned Albin Kurti, a man who openly advocates great Albania, a man who in his statements in just a few days showed that he can be three times more extremist than Haradinaj, both of Tachi and of Pacolli and of all of them together. Now, about these people, obviously because they have the same kind of role model and ideal, Dragan Gilas and these people have only the nicest words. Among other things, whether or not Rada Trajkovic, representative Dragan Gilas and his alliance for Kosovo and Metohija, compared him to Zoran Djindjic, so Albin Kurti compared him to Zoran Djindjic, I would say that something is not by chance. This is their relationship with values, patterns and political offer -- to be Albania's Envera Hodge, not to deal with senseless, as they say, things like infrastructure and highways, but to probably deal with their private business again. That's what they're offering, that's what it would look like, and obviously there'd be an extra, fat lie. Like Dragan Djilas, once again, on page 21, who says that there are no true stories about the fact that his Democratic Party owes him something, and at the same time, from the same camp, that Zelenovic, I think, from Sapac, says - no, the Democratic Party is in debt. And because she's in debt, which is her account blocked, we can't unite. And here, Gilas talks, he says -- no, there's no debt, there's no blocked account. And while there are some noises on the line, I only have to share with you another sentence that will probably explain the character and depth of those woods. This Zelenovic, who along with others is in charge of propagating some boycott next spring, another weekly, but yet their "Time" is called, also, October 17th, pies - well, with that boycott story of yours, do you not want to boycott the elections in Sapac or not? Listen to Zelenovic's answer to that question. He says: “You will now leave the SNS city of Sabac without a fight? “ And he says: “It’s no idea whether we leave or not, in the end the citizens will say what we are going to do. ” Does this sound to you like he said it so cut-off and determinedly - we're going to the boycott at all costs, because we're people of principle and we've given the word? "It is not the idea that we will leave or not, the citizens will eventually say what we are going to do," to me, to tell you the truth, it sounds like someone is doing a little bit of eskiculating a local boycott because someone can't say goodbye to the authorities they have in the town of Šapcu. If these are the woods on the line, if these are the problems in the coalition, they'll have to discuss each other. What's completely indisputable is that these people are absolutely unable to behave in accordance with the modern moment, with the 21st century, the year we're in or in which we'll be in a few months. We have been divided by a step since 2020, which will also be an election year, and therefore they don't even know about sending money to services that are digital, so that Bastac doesn't have to hide in the back pocket or in a bag of tens of thousands of euros, but it can be sent nicely through an appropriate electronic service. Obviously, since they are not always modern technologies, they do not know that there is an Internet through which anyone can go to the Anti-Corruption Agency and see that they have not reported their functions. For example, Dragan Gilas did not report that he was a councilman in Belgrade and several others who did not report their posts on the first team around him and now think that no one knows and no one can check it. Since they obviously don't know there's an Internet, they don't even know that anyone can check that they're disgusting five-pare vomits that they say at the expense of Minister Stefanovic, all published by the magazine "Tabloid" and that anyone who has the Internet can check it out. If they haven't heard, many people in Serbia have the Internet and they can use it and they're nothing, they say, information by alarmers, that's information by Milovan Brkic for three years and more. So, recycled countless times-repeated lies for them are top-of-the-line evidence for I don't know what, so as much as anyone believes these sources, so much to believe today and Gilasa, his sopranos or his megaphones. Besides, that these modern technologies are the terrain on which a man can slip when he's not careful, so I think one of the most sound examples exactly is Marinika Tepic. Do you know that Mrs Tepic was spreading false news by publishing through social networks information that there were special forces, commandos, Serbian paramilitary forces in Kosovo and Metohija and there I don't know what kind of terror they were carrying out and published with all that and photos that support the whole case? You know what turned out to be? That, of course, it's about one more invention, but to make it bigger, to be so big up to the board, it turns out those photos were so-called. Crown evidence, actually animations, that they're inserts from video games. It was top proof that Serbs were terrorising, I don't know who, in Kosovo and Metohija. If people like that are trusted, they're right about everything they say. Milovan Brkic, Marinika Tepic, Dragan Djilas, continue down on your own. Serbia doesn't trust these people, Serbia these people can't cheat. Serbia will certainly continue to take it seriously and responsibly towards its needs, to develop its society, to make it more successful, more competitive, more modern every day more and more because Serbia has decided to be a successful society. This is Serbia's future building already today's next policy of Alexander Vukic and SNS, it is doing so today with great success, Serbia's future that is being built today. And the yellow tycoons, Gilasi and the other following thieves, well, they're the darkest and darkest past of this country and there's really no way to be anything else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62598	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62599	Since we Serbian radicals have said what are all the faults of this bill, above all what is alarming and repeat, it is that the volume of business in the matter of postal services is reduced. We see that in one segment when it comes to the commercial part, which is so-called. ‘purchase from the armchair’ or sales via postal distributors, to increase the volume of transactions. But there are no clear indications how much this contributes to the overall increase in business, or efficiency of postal services, operators. Why? Because a significant share of GDP is that of JP's "Post-Serbia" and, of course, other operators. It has a very significant impact on GDP. We here have relevant indicators, though, as I said, they were from a previous period, five years ago, clearly showing that, for example, in 2012, if I'm not mistaken, a very high percentage of GDP participation had a JP "Post". When it comes to the current situation, it's worrying, and here the motionary, or ministry, gives us no information. Even if you'd done well, gentlemen, from 2017, so let's say -- here we are, together when this law arrived in the assembly, in the congregation procedure, so at least we have more recent data. No, you are not gentlemen, but here you present to us that by buying from a chair or selling through postal distributors to increase work and to increase revenue that will be generated by JP "Post" and others dealing with delivery. But what's very, very worrying, gentlemen, is that at the 2nd point of this agenda you praise the fact that Serbia joined the World Postal Union in 2001. It is something that should not, if we think more seriously, should not be stressed, because this Alliance founded Serbia in 1870, one of the few countries that founded it. In 2001, it is a shame that took place in Serbia, to renew Serbia's bid for membership in the UN and such alliances, such as the World Postal Union. But let's leave it to history, that'll explain history. What's the point? Have you thought, gentlemen, how much weight do those words of yours have in front of the government here in praise you're saying that Serbia should retain its membership in this Alliance? Recently, nearly 10 days ago, not full 10 days ago, there was an incident, an embarrassment so far unseen. Serbia has been accused of delivering envelopes in Kosovo and Metohija with votes from people who have the right to vote, which contain certain substances that cause allergies based on nationality. We can say – it's the biggest nonsense. It's stupid in itself. Have you heard, gentlemen, that someone from the EU has answered and said – enough of this game in Kosovo and Metohija? What's that all about? No one answered? Has anyone come forward from this Council post office? Has anyone answered? He didn't answer. Is that a shame and a shame? The suspicion fell to just who distributed it, who delivered those envelopes, which are operators, i.e. distributors or more specifically "Post of Serbia"? Is this world organization, which here in its Statute means solidarity, did it answer and say – that is simply impossible? Are you normal, embarrassing the entire Union, the post office association in the world? Where is it that through some mail you can officially deliver such a shipment or in this case a letter containing a ballot? No one answered, gentlemen. Shouldn't Serbia think a little bit, Serbia's official might think a little bit and say -- gentlemen, we took part in the establishment of this organization, and you gentlemen don't stand on our side? No, no one's found anything like that. Has the President of the Republic called on EU representatives to explain this phenomenon how this can cause allergies on a national basis and membership? How is it that in a room where they were members of the Serb people and counted those ballots have no consequences, and those who are Albanian nationalities get allergies? So, what kind of answer did he get? They said, "We will question." It means that if anything else, they should be suspected of being behind it all. If the Alliance has not spoken, it should be very, very serious to consider, that from the highest level, from the level of the government, or the ministry, intervene and say – gentlemen where is this solidarity that is here in the statute of that organization, where are these bodies of this Alliance, where is that director to answer? No, no one answered. Therefore, you have little to worry about when you explain this proposal, to take care of what is happening in real life, what is happening in Kosovo and Metohij when it comes to the delivery of postal shipments such as ballots. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62600	The word is made by the MP of the people, Snezana Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62601	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, due to earlier remarks about the maintenance of the Serbian Post Office, or the Post Office Museum, I am taking this opportunity to invite you all here and our fellow citizens. The trial was scheduled and confirmed on October 10th, a regular monthly trial, will take place tonight, titled "Italian sailors for the Serbian army in 1915-1916. “ This is the regular monthly classroom where lectures are held, so that even tonight the entrance will be free, a lecture on this topic will be held and no photographs will be shown on that occasion, but video material, unique from that time on the title and how Italian sailors help the Serbian army. I invite you all to come, in this way to express our gratitude to Italy and its sailors who have helped our army, and also to support the further strong development of Serbian-Italian relations. Thank you, everyone, I can say that as far as I'm concerned, this debate today has been very constructive and I expect that it will continue in the same tone in particular. Come, the entrance is free, Mother Jerosima 35, PTT museum tonight at 18 hours and 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-23-1.u62602	Thank you. Since there are no more reports, I am concluding a joint principled search on the draft laws referred to in points 1, 2 and 3 of the agenda. We'd be done with today's work and we'd be back tomorrow at 10.00 hours. [[The session was suspended at 18.10 hours]]
