ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56511	Ladies and gentlemen of the People, I ask the question to the Serbian Government and the President of the Republic of Serbia – how long will the Serbian and Serbian government tolerate anti-Serbian hysteria conducted in Montenegro? In fact, we are witnessing that for a long time, the official government in Montenegro has sought to make the Serbian Corps in Montenegro, which has declared itself 30% of the total population, completely making life miserable. It is known to all of us that in Montenegro, one who pleads as a Serb cannot work in state institutions. It's hard to get to work and private firms. It is quite clear that it implies that the possibility of educating, in education, anyone who pleads as a Serb and a member of the Serb people can have a job. What the Republic of Serbia, or the government of the Republic of Serbia, should do, according to us Serbian radicals, is finally to invite at least the ambassador of Montenegro to Belgrade and to declare a strong position of opposition to this relationship between the official government and the Serbian people. The most recent pressure on the Serbian Orthodox Church has been the most intense. It is completely out of the mind that the government in one country, in the Serbian queen, remains aside when it comes to the attack on the Serbian Orthodox Church in Montenegro. It is that the state and the church are separate, is that the state should interfere less with church affairs, but this is about the survival of a Serbian national being. It is almost unacceptable to be more tolerated when the government of Montenegro calls on our ambassador to Podgorica to declare the strong stance of the Montenegrin government that Serbia must not behave like that no matter what. Serbia's government and Serbia's president seek to push these problems aside, explaining that the peace needed and good relations between Montenegro is above all interests and individuals, especially groups of Serbs living in Montenegro. How much longer with those insufferable explanations? You know, if we go by that logic that peace has no alternative, then logically the question is asked, historically, if you will, so the Serbs had peace during the Turkish Empire, they didn't have to rebel, they didn't have to take the liberty. Why freedom if you have peace? I guess freedom is above all else, huh? I suppose freedom of life, freedom of religion, freedom of education and freedom of information through the need for the Serbian Corps in Montenegro? We have seen that even the government in Montenegro goes one step further, interferes with the internal issues of the Republic of Serbia. Neither Montenegro's president nor Montenegro's prime minister are hesitated to state their views on Kosovo and Metohija's independence. It's out of your mind. What's with all the tolerance? Why more discounts to Montenegro's leadership? What do we have to wait for more, to play a good villa when it comes to Montenegro's leadership? Criminals, criminal circles are headed by Montenegro. There is one part of it and doubts that these are not criminal ties, that they are not financial and economic ties above these political interests, that is, the interest of the Serbian Corps in Montenegro. That is why we Serbian radicals are asking for an answer from the Serbian Prime Minister and the President of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56512	Thank you, Mr. Mircic. Are any of the other presidents, or authorized representatives, answering for a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56513	Thank you. I intended to skip the question this time and allow the government and ministers, whom I asked, to prepare written answers, but, unfortunately, literally a few days after I referred these questions, not a denial, but a confirmation of their justification and concern that I expressed in these matters. I mean here and these questions that I was asking here in this place, but also what I directly spoke to the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister when they were here in the Assembly. So the address is the same – Prime Minister, President of the Republic and Ministry of Foreign Affairs. So how much yesterday we could see and hear that the president is again so-called. The interim institutions of self-government in Pristina, Hashim Thaci, submitted to Kosovo's parliament, or parliament in the Assembly of Requests and a motion for a resolution to join Presevo, Bujanovac and the Kosovo Medvedje republic. In three points, Thaci proposes that resolution, I must quote: "That Albanians from two or three municipalities be part of the dialogue between Belgrade and Pristina, that the presidents of their political parties be part of the Pristina dialogue team, that Thaci considers that this proposal respects the political will of Albanians from these parts of Serbia, expressed in the 1992 referendum on Kosovo's accession, and confirmed by the fight, so-called "The Battle of the Republic of Serbia". "Freedom armies" for Presevo, Medvedja and Bujanovac", etc. He says, "Taci believes that this requirement, therefore, is an official requirement for the accession of these municipalities to "republics of Kosovo", that these demands will help the long-term stabilisation of the region and contribute to the establishment, be careful now, long-term peace in the region and the opening of a new chapter in relations between Belgrade and Pristina." You understand, dear fellow citizens, who hear this, what it stands for, what is the meaning of this provocation to Hashim Thaci. You can see it's a direct reaction. At least that's how I see it, on the permissiveness, on the hard understandable lenientness and condescendingness of the summit of our country, regardless of the explanation that this lenientness of justice is, because when such elements are not, I say something else, such as Hashim Thaci and his fellows in Pristina, when they are given a small finger, they naturally reach for both the hand and the whole body. So, when I warned here that state integrity and sovereignty are like socks and that when it starts to mate and lets go, there's no end, just new and new demands coming in. So, expressed also in this House, ease and willingness not to dialogue, dialogue is not controversial, but on territorial concessions under a dim name of demarcation, it only encouraged those elements, radical elements in Pristina, and now these demands are coming, so not only do they want the whole of Kosovo for themselves but they are also now looking for part of the territory and territory of central Serbia. So, if possible, if there is a political confirmation of those warnings that I've said here, and I'm sure they're not lonely no matter how much I'm sitting here alone right now, then I'm sure there are a lot of these statements, and there are a lot of them by the representatives of Pristina more than enough confirmation of the reasonableness and justification of these well-intentioned warnings. Not only do you find it far more radical and drastic, what just happened to you on the Montenegro case, where I also warned from this place and sought some reaction from Belgrade to the difficult provocations of the government of Montenegro and its high representatives, according to the Serbian Orthodox Church and the interests of the Serbian state. There was no reaction, and then in the end, the Montenegrin Foreign Ministry called our ambassador, sent him a demarch and protested. So instead of protesting, they protested and called our government and our ambassador. In that light, therefore, I remind you of this precedent, I fear that something much, much worse will happen to you with Pristina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56514	Thank you, colleague Vukadinovic. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Djuric. Here you go, colleague Guric.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56515	Thank you. Last Thursday, when it was due to ask questions to the prime minister and ministers, we opened the topic of electoral conditions and today I would continue to ask a few concrete questions at the addresses of several ministries, as regards the recommendations made by the NGO CRTA on the comprehensive reform of electoral legislation and election processes in Serbia, all in order to have as regular as possible and as democratic as possible next year, bearing in mind that part of the political scene is also announcing their boycott due to their dissatisfaction with the current state of the electoral process in Serbia. The first question I would like to refer to the Ministry of Justice, and we would like to ask whether there is an addition to the Law on Public Enterprises which would impose sanctions on all political entities and responsible persons in public enterprises in the event of infringement of Article 70. A law on public enterprises that prescribes a ban on the use of property, name activities and the visual identity of public enterprises in all activities related to political parties and election campaigns, as well as any long use of public enterprises for political purposes? This is a matter that is very important because both the OSCE and the European Commission realise that most of the electoral irregularities, especially in the domain of media representation, are related to so-called. "functional" campaign. It is something that the "Transparency of Serbia" in an analysis of the electoral process also finds, because through a functional campaign, candidates already in public functions abuse the fact that they are already in public functions and appear as public officials in pre-election campaigns, where they actually do not perform as public officials, but actually perform as candidates. In this way, for the purposes of their candidacy, they abuse their public functions and resources that are available to them from the public sector. The second question is referred to the Ministry of Culture and Information, and as regards any changes to the Law on Electronic Media, we are interested in whether this ministry is considering introducing an obligation to the electronic media regulator periodically, and according to the CRTA recommendation, for example, best every two weeks during the campaign, issuing written reports on the monitoring and analysis of the work of electronic media during the pre-election campaign and these reports, which would contain and find the professional services of the electronic media regulator, in relation to the equal representation of candidates, but so that all public appearances of election actors are included, especially those in the role of state officials? Of course, these reports cover all other important aspects of media work during a pre-election campaign that can have an impact on objective and comprehensive information. Whether REM is under obligation to issue a final report on the work of electronic media during the election campaign within a month at the latest. In addition, we also have a question for the Ministry of State Administration and Local Self-Government whether amendments to the Law on the selection of MPs and the Law on Local Elections that would otherwise regulate electoral administration and bodies participating in the electoral process are in the plan, i.e. whether the application of the CRTA recommendation is to abolish the working bodies of the electoral commissions, while the municipal electoral commissions and the city election commissions are hierarchically placed under the authority of the RIK, that there is a clear, vertical hierarchy between election commissions, which would then be more efficient on the municipal and urban level, would be taken over by the authority of the working bodies, because in this way implementation of the electoral process would be more effective? Is the change plan that would introduce mandatory training of election board members at all polling stations, along with mandatory testing, to improve the work of election committees at the polls themselves? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56516	Thank you, colleague Gjuric. The word is Joseph Broz. Here's my colleague Broz.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56517	Dear Chairman, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I am exercising my right to Article 287. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and I would like to request more information from the competent members of the Government. The first question I would ask the Minister of Youth and Sports, Mr Vanja Udovic. It is the National Sports Union of the blind and weak-sighted and two major problems of this prominent sports organisation of people with disabilities. The first problem is the acceptance of the National Sports Union of the undersighted and blind in the Paralympic Committee of the Republic of Serbia, and the second recognition of the right to national recognitions by the lack of sight and blind chessmen, members of the sports alliance. For many years, namely, the problem has been under-sighted and blind sports alliances in the Paralympic Committee of the Republic of Serbia, although athletes have been defending Serbia's colors for years and many Paralympic sports, especially in chess and are organising international competitions. The other almost decade-long problem, which has also not been solved, represents a kind of discrimination between blind and weak-sighted athletes, is the lack of national recognition for weak-sighted and blind athletes, in this case, chess players who are the conquerors of a large number of international recognitions, primarily chess Paralympics. Today, there are only five other blind chess players who could exercise the right to national recognition, and we find it incorrect that their colleagues, just because they have a healthy vision, and they don't, are getting national recognitions, while the lack of sightings of chessists are lagging behind for unknown reasons. This is inadmissible discrimination. All state authorities have been informed of this and recently the President of the Republic himself. With regard to the above-mentioned problems of the National Sports Union, I would like to ask questions. What are the reasons why, despite the intense activities of the National Alliance of Blind and Failing, numerous promises, the National Sports Union of Blind and Weak has not yet been admitted to the Paralympic Committee of the Republic of Serbia and can this problem be resolved and further participation in the international contests of the Paralympics? Will the blind and undersighted chess players who have acquired the right to national recognitions do so and thus prevent discrimination against them? Second question, the Ministry of Ecology. It is about the Miljakova forest, a protected area, an area of 250 hectares, which is given to the owner of "Serbijasum". In these areas were once sports grounds, in the lower part, which were collected by the citizens and companies from Rakovica and refurbished, but in the last 10 years, lawlessly, the area began to cut down forests and build houses. This includes the former president of the municipality, with his associates and in the area there are 21 facilities for which there is an order for suspension and destruction. I want to ask why the decisions of the municipal authorities aren't being carried out. Their argument is that there is no money for it, but all this is done is against the law and against the environmental conditions of life. The third question is the Ministry of Education. Does the Ministry of Education plan to provide future funding for children in schools who do not have the means to visit and pay various visits to continue training, means museums and all that other children visit, do not have because large funds are needed for this? For example, a visit to the Tesla Museum in Belgrade costs 780 dinars. I don't know what's in it. Now they've been going to Vimination, 2500 dinars in six hours, how much they've spent there, they've only got one sandwich. I don't understand where the resources are needed for everything that's been done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56518	Thanks, buddy Broz. Marijan Risticevic has a word. Here you go, colleague Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56519	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm going to borrow and rewrite some of King Nicola's verses at the beginning. He wrote "That way, that way." There, 'Namo, for the hills they say is His grave, and today we know of the hills she, the Serb of Him, became a slave. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, one of those who disagreed, one of those who disagreed with Montenegro being against Serbia, but to be with Serbia, died. And that is why I declare on behalf of the parliamentary group and many colleagues the condolences of the family of Momir Bulatovic, who I repeat, did not agree that Montenegro would be against Serbia, but rather be a vassad with Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, my first question is this – is it true that at the end of 2007, the representatives of the former government, the former regime, went to the US Embassy and asked Jennifer Bras to delay the declaration of independence before the presidential elections were held in which Boris Tadic was to win and that otherwise his victory would have been questioned, which happened on February 14, 2008, Boris Tadic took an oath, and on February 17th, Albanians declared independence, and Boris Tadic temporarily fled to Romania? Did he trade the country for a chair? Did they later do the job by ordering the opinion of the International Court of Justice, which was in favour of Kosovo's independence, the wild state of Kosovo, that is, our provinces of Kosovo and Metohija? Also, in connection with this, did the UN resolution's UN negotiations, where Russia and China are present to do the agreed work, which agreed in 2007-2008 and replaced the country for the chair, do they do so by changing the UN resolution and disposing of negotiations and introducing the EU? Is it true they have established border crossings on Jarinj and Brnjak? And with that in mind, is it true that, in order to keep it quiet, Djordje Vukadinovic received from Luttria Serbia during the rule of Boris Tadic for his organization Independent Vlach Political Thought or Serbian Political Thought, that he had received 2 million and 400,000 dinars in order to keep that kind of service that was happening during DS and DSS, quiet, and today, as far as I can see, it's very loud? Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the next question is about election laws. Is it true that the laws on the election of presidents, MPs, laws defining elections in local self-governments and the Law on the financing of political activities are essentially passed before 2012, that is, during the time this part of the opposition ruled Serbia, and now they say that they are some of the laws of thieves? Does that mean they've passed those laws? In the end, you all watched the impression of the week, some of you were watching, all of you were watching parts in social networks, New S television and I was asking, is it like other fake cross-border channels, like N1 television, that television is unregistered, that false cross-border television, like 20 controversial channels from United Media, which are unfairly competing? It's a question for the Competition Protection Commission, REM, RATL. This, by unfair competition, works in black, destroys and endangers domestic media and basically serves to launder money. They claimed that the programme re-emissioned N1 television from Slovenia, but I received an answer from their regulator, Tee Antnonic, that it was simply not true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56520	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56521	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my question is addressed to the Anti-Corruption Agency, which refers to two known tycoons -- Dragan Gilas and Dragan Šolak, and in connection with an investigation conducted against them by the Dutch Financial Intelligence Service. It is a body that is involved in researching financial malfeasances, money laundering, tax evasion and the like. According to media reports, an investigation by Dutch authorities, launched at the end of last year in connection with the two tycoons' suspicious affairs, has come to an end and is expected to come out with concrete information soon. At the end of last year, when the investigation began, I asked our state authorities, and about any knowledge of the case, and now I'm asking the Anti-Corruption Agency, is there any further knowledge about this affair? A team before this service addressed the state authorities of Bulgaria, Luxembourg, as well as Serbia for information on the linkage between the Darekt Media company, which was founded to suspect that Dragan Djilas, although formally Šolakova, and the suspected newly formed Dutch company Askanius Nederland BV, whose sole shareholder is the Luxembourg company, Askanius Sarl. They suspect that it is very unusual financial transactions aimed at concealing the real owner, and during their investigation, the Dutch particularly apostrophe of Bulgarian Krasimir Petrova Gergov, who is being run as the owner of this company, Askanius Nederland BV, and the local public is known for allegedly selling him "Darekt Media". We can also read about it on the KRIK portal, the property base of politicians, when it comes to the property of Dragan Gilas. The KRIK has recently launched a new political star, this Rodoljub Milovic, and we will discuss it another time. So it says that the company Darekt Media, Gilas, sold 17.7m euros in April 2014. This is evident from the buy-in contract, but the business documentation does not show who the buyer is. The company was bought by the Dutch CEE Media Foundation, which was founded only a month earlier. The foundation manager is Bulgarian businessman Krasimir Gergov. In July 2015, this foundation transferred free of charge ownership from the Darekt Media to the company “Ascia Nederland BV”. Research by KRIKA has shown that the ownership of the Darekt Media has been hidden behind eight companies registered in more of-short locations - the Netherlands, Luxembourg, the British Virgin Islands, Samoa, Hong Kong, etc. The last in a series of companies that can be reached is "HPM1-N Capital LTD", originally registered in Luxembourg and reregistered to the British Virgin Islands in early 2014. So, I expect this investigation to show and expose all the malfeasances of these two tycoons, to shed light on money flows, to shed light on all suspicious circumstances related to the partnership business of Gilas and Šolak, to provide an answer to the question of whether they avoided paying taxes, whether there was money laundering and to show in the extreme case in which Gilas and Solak were enriched. Three key answers required by this investigation – who is currently behind the Darekt Media company, what is Bulgaria's Krasimir Petrova Gergov's role, and who turned out to be registered to him at a non-existent address, and how and why did Gilas Šolaku sell the building in New Belgrade at three times the market price? As far as these last transactions are concerned, we've been out in public a few times with suspicions that Gilas was financially, to say, acrobatics, with the sale of the building, actually got funds for the election for the Belgrade City Assembly. The transaction itself took place several days before Gilas's announcement of the Belgrade elections, and by overpaid the building several times, beyond any economic logic, further heats up the suspicion. Solak's motive to finance Gilas' campaign is also being asked. It may also be an answer to the question of how it is possible for his N1 television daily to conduct the most brutal campaign against Alexander Vukic, SNS and the Serbian government. So, every day, all day long, just attacks on Vukic, SNS and the Serbian government. Whatever falls from them, everything is allowed, anything can, but only if it's in a negative context for Alexander Vukic, and all the time it's been campaigning about the oppression of the media, how the media is not free, as far as the censorship is concerned, etc. Twenty-four hours, only and exclusively, are attacking Alexander Vukic. If it rains, the Wolf is guilty, the Wolf is a dictator. If it doesn't rain, it's Wolf's fault again, it's Hitler, and they don't miss hair from their heads. From all of this, I am ending the chairman, it is clear that the only activity of this television is aimed at destroying the power led by Aleksandar Vukic, SNS. Unfortunately, Serbian citizens will not allow it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56522	Thank you, colleague Markovic. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings were prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Đorđe Milicevic, Mr Dejan Radenkovic, Milisav Petronijevic, doc. Dr. Ivan Bauer. We continue our work and move on to a search in detail on the 1st item of the agenda - PROPOSAL OF SCIENCE AND RESEARCH. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that they are invited to attend: Mladen Sarcevic, Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development; Prof. Dr. Vladimir Popović and Prof. Dr. Ana Langović Milicevic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development; Dr. Saša Lazović, Assistant Minister of Technological Development, Transfer of Technology and Innovation System; Dr. Marina Soković, Assistant Minister of Science; and Vera Vasic and Ivana Brankovic, lawyers. You have received amendments submitted by MPs: Slavica Zivkovic, Dr Predrag Jelenković, Dr Milorad Mijatović, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković, Natasa Mihajlović Vacic, doc. Dr. Ivan Bauer, Jasmine Karanac, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic, Vjerica Radeta, Nemanja Sarović, Aleksandar Šeselj, Milorad Mirčić, Aleksandra Belačić, Sreto Perić, Tomislav Ljubenović, Petar Jojic, Nikola Savić, Miljan Damjanović, Momcilo Mandić, Ljiljana Mihajlović, Marina Ristić, Miroslava Stanković Đurić, Filip Stojanović, Dubravko Bojić, Vesna Niković Vukalović, Ružica Nikolic, Zoran Despotović, Božidar Delić, Dr Muamer Zukorlic, Prof. Dr Jahja Fehratović, Marko Đurić, Nenad Konstavić, Miroslav Aleksić, Goran Bogdanović, Zdravko Stanković, Tatjana Macura, Vladimir Đurić, Aleksandar Stevanović, Nemanja Radojević, Nemanja Radoj Radojević, as well as well as well as well as a committee for education, science and technologicalate and technological society. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Nenad Konstantinović, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Zdravko Stankovic, written on June 24, 2019, withdrew the amendments to the article. 5, 15, 19, 21, 30, 57, 58, 59, 60, 63, 64, 65, 66 and 93. It's a bill of law. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Education, Science and Technological Development and Information Society, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The First Amendment, with a correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Muamer Zukorlic and Prof. Dr. Jahja Fehratovic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society accepted the amendment, with a correction, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment, with correction, is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find that the amendment, with correction, has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? The word is by Prof. Dr. Jahja Fehratović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56523	Thank you, Your Honor. I thank the Government and the Committee for accepting this amendment. Of course, for us, as we have already advertised, this law is extremely important and we have tried to contribute, so that even more precisely certain items of this law can be defined, so that we have added one word of "social interest" here. We believe that the general interest of the law should have social responsibility. We thank the Government who has accepted this finding, because without social responsibility it cannot be used by any law, especially by defining that this law is, or this article is talking about these other programs. It's too general. If we also have the social responsibility of every member of the law, every law, every provision, then we can be really proud of it, and we can expect that in the future we will benefit from benefits from any investment in any legal, well, if you will, and any other programme regulation. We believe that all of this law, as we have already said, and with this amendment, and with all the other amendments, in any case contributes to improving the quality of the work of scientific workers, researchers and in many ways will benefit all those involved in science, and that their scientific achievements will be socially positive, socially responsible, will benefit our society as a whole, and therefore we have submitted this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56524	Thank you, colleague Fehratovic. The word is by Prof. Dr. Ljubisa Stojmirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56525	My colleagues and colleagues, I agree with the adoption of this amendment, but I have a purely well-intentioned correction to the grammar of their proposal. What's that? First, there is no point in Serbian, but stuck, that is one of the proposals they were looking for. On the other hand, in the signature of the colleagues who have proposed this amendment writes – Dr. point, Dr. point, does not mean doctor but means doctor but means second, and Muammer Zukorlic, the other cannot be, one is Muamer Zukorlic, the same as one Muamer Bacevac. Any title to be placed in front of a name should also have meaning, that is, that means a doctor. When you put a dot behind a doctor, it's not a doctor, it's another. It's a purely well-intentioned remark. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56526	Thank you, Professor Stojmirovic. The word is Jahja Fehratovic, right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56527	I thank Professor Stojmirovic. However, the reasons for our amendments are written in Bosnian. For this reason, in the Bosnian language by spelling, therefore, behind the title Dr always stands a point. The comma and the comma are the same. So, we wrote the arguments of our amendments in Bosnian, while the integrated text of the amendments contained did not want to be burdened with this, given that we were suggested that this would require a major translation intervention, etc. So here it's just different understandings of spelling, norms and language cultures, so what you've said is about Serbian spelling and you're right. However, what we have written and how it stands is the spelling of the Bosnian language and these are some language differences which bring these languages into the position of separate standards, normized language expressions. So I don't mind a Dr. with a dot, or a Dr. without a dot, it's just our language feeling, it's your language feeling, and we have the right to respect each other and respect different language standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56528	Thank you, colleague Fehratovic. The right to replica has Professor Stojmirovic. Here you go, Professor.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56529	I don't mind that you use other languages, but with us, the official language is Serbian, and that's why I suggested that it be correct in the future, so that it doesn't be interpreted differently.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56530	The word has a folk MP, Jahja Fehratovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56531	According to the Constitution and other legal provisions, members of national communities are entitled to the official use of the mother tongue. As the peoples of the Bosniak people, we use our native language, which does not mean that we do not respect, appreciate, respect the language of the majority people, but also, the legislator and the Constitution have allowed us to cultivate, respect, protect, use our native language. So I don't think there's really any controversy here, or the need to honor anyone at all. You simply have your Serbian language, the standard Serbian language, we have our Bosnian language standard and we always use our native language whether here in Belgrade, whether in Novi Pazar, whether anywhere in the world, because this is our language standard and statement that we use, so that, in accordance with the Constitution, you respect the rights of national communities and minorities to the official use of mother tongue and letter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56532	Thank you, colleague Fehratovic. We're moving on with our work. The People's MP Natasha Sp submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Jovanovic. Here you go, colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56533	Mr Minister, we have submitted an amendment to delete the position of 2nd of this first member for the reason that he is completely unnecessary, because not only of you in this law, you will agree as Minister of Science and Education that this was one experience that was really very bad during DOS rule when we Serbian radicals had to for years, and imagine, here is the living and healthy Martinovic who, like me and my colleague Radeta and other MPs, received sometimes warnings to use, or to warn the chairman Gordana Komic at the time that he could not use in the women's gender-specific interest in how it comes to her and how she thinks it is right for the standardisation of Serbian language because of gender equality, as he advocates today, as well as this non-governmental sector, which is all not only non-governmental, but dependent on Western countries and those who do not want good to Serbia, nor our Serbian language. So you shouldn't have put this in particular, even though those of the EU are following what you're writing because the Committee on Standardisation of the SANU Institute of Serbian Language two years ago came up with a clear instruction when it comes to this. There are various examples of what they have stated and not that it is not offensive, but only rightly possible from the highest linguistic authority and standards set in Serbian to call a scientist, not a scientist, that this is a law on this, says researcher, and not a researcher, not an academic, but an academic, not a fighter, but a fighter, not a pilot, but a pilot. So, once and for all, in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, where the right Serbian language is spoken, we learn all others, including those who are not presently, but if they return and return, that something that the Serbian language has defined since the time of the world and the century, what they will have to respect, as well as everyone else, because simply, we can't just because someone's thought of twisting and wanting a woman's interest to say, which is their right, but then they're illiterate and they don't know they're saying they're looking for something like that or implying, they're in some legal text, which they're constantly working on various forums and they insist on it. You didn't need to make this especially potent, because the institute gave its own, and we Serbian radicals always say before such a decision that it was only right.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56534	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. The word is made by Minister Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56535	Thank you very much. I agree with you, but you know as well as a longtime MP that many bodies have to pass their opinions until we get to you here, so it's also legislation, trustees, and so are many others. Here in the basic provisions of the first article stands – all terms marked by positions, professions, or professions and knowledge are expressed in grammatical male gender. So you're absolutely right, but I'm saying who has to say, in order for the law to come to you, everyone has the right to add, the papers, and that's just the way it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56536	Thank you, Minister Sarčević. The word is Natasha Sp. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56537	Mr. Minister, everything was fine, but then we get to what's behind the scenes. So they mean the natural male and female species of the person they refer to. So you have nothing to do with the government's minister, the government of the Republic of Serbia, to justify yourself to those who want to destroy the Serbian language. They have nothing to look for. The decision is clear, we know what the standards are, SANU also confirmed it. Therefore, they can only learn, make noise, complain and speak incorrectly like these individual semi-literate here who are not present, from this yellow company.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56538	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. The 2nd amendment with the correction was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Muamer Zukorlic and Prof. Dr. Jahja Fehratovic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society accepted the amendment with the correction. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment with the correction is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find that the amendment with the correction has become an integral part of the bill. The word is by Prof. Dr. Jahja Fehratović.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56539	Thank you. Also, this time I express my gratitude to the Government and the Committee that have been accepted and this amendment. Of course, in addition to knowledge for the concrete benefit of science, experience and skills are needed, because theoretical knowledge in certain, for example, areas without practical experience can be counterproductive, such as in medical science, applied medicine, because a surgeon who has only theoretical knowledge without experience and skills, is not qualified to provide patients. If he enters the O.R. as such, he can have catastrophic consequences. So we felt that it was important to further specify this provision with experience and skills, in order to have in the legal solution the completeness of what includes the entire domain of useful knowledge, and given the tendency of the Ministry and the Government to increasingly move towards the practical use of knowledge through dual education and other forms of very important implementation of acquired knowledge, we felt that it was important to supplement this legislative provision here and we came across the approval and acceptance of this proposal by the Ministry, the Committee, the Government, so that, thanks both of us and others, and I believe that this will further contribute to making this legal member even more quality and to being part of the movement for our whole science and research. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56540	Thank you, Dr. Fehratovic. The 3rd amendment, with correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Muamer Zukorlic and Professor Dr Jahja Fehratovic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society accepted the amendment with the correction. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment with the correction is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find that the amendment with the correction has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want to say that? Professor Dr Jahja Fehratovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56541	It's clean here, so you're a feller thing when it comes to lecturing, and here's what Professor Stojmirovic had to do. However, the infection or the contagion really does not make much difference. What was intensities to me, Professor Stojmirovic, is to point a little bit more to the language or perhaps it was disturbed by the Ichakian variant we used, but in that case he would have had to give up Vuk Karadzic and Negos and many great writers of Serbian culture and heritage who wrote on that variant, and I therefore find it really pointless that this kind of debate should be given up. So our intensity was to be useful, to help in every sense, to make this legal solution as efficient as possible, as possible, and in this way to correct certain, let's say, these felicitous mistakes, which are natural when it comes to a big document like this to happen, which is why, as MPs, we felt a commitment, let's say, to point out that kind of error, and ultimately we hope that this is a small contribution for us to be as precise as possible, as more efficient and as efficient as possible in any sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56542	Thank you, colleague Fehratovic. The word is by Prof. Dr. Ljubisa Stojmirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56543	I have no need, no intention of giving up Wolf Karadzic, no Negos, no one. I don't mind everyone saying what they want, but official correspondence, what's public, where we act as intellectuals, as MPs, as citizens, must be in accordance with the regulations. It can't be, pal, the same comma and stuck. The point is the Croatian word and is used by Croats in their spelling. I don't have anything against them, but in Serbian, there's stuck and I've shown it to you purely, well-intentioned, human, friendlyly to one of the failures that was made in the text of the proposal that you made. It can't be pointless what I said, it's totally in line with the spelling and I didn't say it for the first time in this assembly, so I addressed my colleagues Zivkovic and Pavicevic once, I guess, when they were trying to change some amendments the same way. That's why I'm telling you friendlyly, the college Serbian language doesn't know the point, but it's stuck and there's no problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56544	Thank you, Professor. Stojmirovic. Right on the line, Jahja Fehratovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56545	I thank the professors, and I really understood this friendlyly, but again I repeat the comma and are stuck, for example, in the Bosnian and spelling of the standard Bosnian language, and until recently they were in Serbian-Croatian spelling, so until the 1990s they were equal. So, since it is an official use, we as MPs who come from minority nations, who have the right to use our own official language, are using this right and there is really no problem with respect, great respect for the standard language of the majority people, therefore the Serbian language. We also demand and strive to respect, express our native language and standard of our language wherever we are and whatever we are. So, we're not in any kind of place here, let's say a break, when it comes to the standard language of this language or that, it's important that we contributed to this amendment or we tried to help make this legal solution right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56546	Thank you, colleague Fehratovic. On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56547	We have actually submitted two amendments to Article 4, and Article 4 speaks on what principles science and research are based on. You've listed here, Minister, 12 principles. We don't think two of these principles are necessary, that they should be deleted. The first principle that we have overlooked to delete is contained in point 5) where you say it is based among other things on principles in the application of international standards and criteria in the evaluation of the quality of scientific and research work in each field, especially in relation to its specificity. The point before that, you said, respect for science and profession standards. We think it's quite enough to say respect for standards, sciences and professions and that it's meant both in the country and abroad, and you'll see further through the amendments, you've seen, I guess, something that's not good, that you're trying to at a small door through this law to introduce the mention of some, when you talk about international standards, you say domestic, regional international. You're trying to get some kind of EU mini through this law to go through. We also saw something here that is just amazing that you say that science and research is based among other things on the principle of gender equality in science and research, as well as in decision-making bodies. Mr. Minister, it is impossible to achieve gender equality when it comes to science and research. I guess it's a matter of proclivity, learning, knowledge, education, and no gender equality. It's not the goal of giving science and research away. The point is that we have quality, not quantity, it's a simple area that can't be mass. Then you say they should be based on gender equality. What we're going to say is that in the Academy of Science we have to choose a number of women, that scientific research must include a number of women, a number of men, etc. It just doesn't work that way. You know, we're in a strange time when science, formal first of all, is that in Serbia as mushrooms, we're no doctorate, but you don't think that every doctor of science, I'm talking first of all about those whose doctors are under suspicion, and some who haven't come out as such in public, and there are as many as you want, because it's impossible to have as many doctors as they are now. You don't think we can call each one a scientist, a researcher, etc. So, this is completely unnecessary and you don't want to crash the concept of the law, as you wrote in your explanation, but let's think really, both of these amendments need to be accepted, there are 10 principles left. And I repeat, gender equality in science and research is absolutely impossible. You can't talk about gender equality in every part of your life. The law should create the possibility that anyone who has a tendency, who likes to learn, who likes to investigate, can do science and research. Whether he's gonna be this or that breed is absolutely irrelevant and in that sense we intervened with this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56548	Thank you, colleague Radeta. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. The 4th Amendment, with correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Muamer Zukorlic and Prof. Dr. Jahja Fehratovic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society accepted the amendment, with a correction, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment, with the correction, in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, has become an integral part of the bill. Here you go, colleague Fehratovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56549	Thank you. As we have heard, this article of the Law refers to principles and we felt that, in addition to the 12 principles detailed by this bill, there should be also 13 or 13 points of originality and authenticity, precisely because of these different currents that were present in our public over the past years on how certain scientific works, doctoral thesis etc. are. original and authentic. We felt that it was good and that it was important to also specify this legal solution, so that in the future we could warn any kind of insinuation of whether one scientific work is authentic, original or has, say, a certain number of shortcomings that concern these very two categories. We are truly particularly grateful to the Government and the Committee that have accepted and that this amendment of ours is an integral part of this law. We believe that it will essentially contribute to many dilemmas, many doubts, and then abuse of different types of insinuations for political purposes etc. be removed at least in the future, because we assume and believe that every scientific work, every scientific research, doctoral thesis, etc., will have to be through a certain set of beggars, and especially at this point of originality and authenticity, because this kind of relativisation puts many serious scientific workers under suspicion, many doctors of science who spent years and years in hard research and then somehow now with this constant story that is present or all present in our society and their great, long-standing hard work is somewhat demeaning and somewhat discredited. That is why we believe that it is extremely important and useful for this point to be among the principles, and we are particularly grateful to the Government and the Committee that have also accepted this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56550	Thank you, colleague Fehratovic. The word has a folk MP, Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic. Here you go, Professor.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56551	Dear Vice President, I'm glad the government has accepted this proposal. So the originality, as my colleague said, and the authenticity of scientific work are and how important, one of the most important, let's say, the principle. Unfortunately, some of our teachers today do not adhere to originality and honesty, authenticity, or academic honesty. One of them is Professor Rade Veljanovski, a professor who walks the streets these days, curses the MPs, curses the President of the Republic and the Government. Some doubt his academic integrity because he missed as a mentor to one doctor that he had plagiarized, in fact plagiarism, and that, behold, from his book, you heard about it, so the bodies of the university were ambushed. Now that I'm with this colleague of ours, let me say that scientists must be patriots in the first place, they must love, they should at least love their country, it's one of the basic postulates of every man. Unfortunately, we have a part of the university's professors who are not patriotic and have no patriotic feeling, among them are just mentioned by a fellow professor Dr. Rade Veljanovski, a professor at the Faculty of Political Sciences in Belgrade. On 21 April 2018, the very good professor, Mr. 2018, said, quote: "Serbia should recognise Kosovo and Metohija, provide him with a chair in the United Nations," a quote concluded. The moral gromada of Prof. Dr. Rade Veljanovski did not only degrade his country and violate the Constitution, SNS and President Vukic, but also his party colleague, Sergei Trifunovic, in a people called and known as "pishoje", he told Trifunovic on January 29th 2019 that he was unable to lead any party, quoting "far away that man", for Trifunovic, he says, "who can lead some serious political organisation", finished a quote, and was together in the presidency with him. Well, I'm glad the government has accepted this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56552	Thank you, Professor. The word is by Prof. Dr. Ljubisa Stojmirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56553	Thank you. It is the obligation of every intellectual, not just a scientific worker, to be a patriot first and to love and respect his country. May it honor us to do what Michael Pupin did in World War I. When he was told that by investing his assets under a mortgage to buy weapons for Serbia he would lose everything he had, he replied, "If Serbia fails, so should I." Where good luck is that all intellectuals behave like that today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56554	Thank you, Professor. The 5th amendment, with correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Muamer Zukorlic and Prof. Dr. Jahja Fehratovic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society have accepted the amendment with a correction, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment, with the correction, in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, has become an integral part of the bill. His word is Jahja Fehratović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56555	Thank you. So this fifth amendment is really important and beneficial and ultimately contributes to that statement that the Prime Minister of the previous session said that the Republic of Serbia has the best set of laws when it comes to the protection of human and minority rights. Just led by that sentence, we have added in this part or in this article – in addition to human rights and minority rights, so that the actual acceptance of this amendment by the Government and the Committee is important. Finally, this contributes to what I kept saying this morning and somewhat differed from Professor Stojmirović, because this results, let's say, from this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Rights and Freedom of National Minorities, where, specifically, according to the amendment adopted by colleagues of Papuga, the MP of the national minority has the right to speak in the session of the National Assembly and to submit written documents in the work of the National Assembly to the Rules of Procedure in his own language. Therefore, this is a specific member of the Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities, as well as when a National MP in the work of the National Assembly is used in his own language, in the sense of the 10th Article's position, continuously or in a particular case, the Secretary General of the National Assembly is required to ensure at the same time the translation of his or her oral presentation or document in Serbian. Of course it also refers to languages that are different, to the extent that it is difficult to understand, such as Hungarian, Albanian, Russian, etc., but it is legally possible. This congregation has brought in that each MP can speak in his native language and may also file written documents according to the standard of his native language. It is therefore important, for example, to add to the protection of human and minority rights in this Law on Science and Research, which includes all possible rights that are truly positive in the legislation of the Republic of Serbia to protect and promote the speciality of the identities of national communities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56556	Thank you, colleague Vehratovic. The 5th Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society submitted to Article 5 of the amendment. At the meeting of the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society, a representative of the proposer accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Here's a colleague of Mircic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56557	Here, the SRS has submitted an amendment to this article. In the second position of this member, it is said that the openness of science and open access to publications to science, as well as primary data, is determined according to European Commission standards, as it stands in further text and international good practice. We know, we are aware that you have become Europhiles overnight, to strive for the EU and to look everywhere you should and where you should not need this European Commission, the EU, but we think that it is high time, of course, when it comes to the openness of science, when it comes to the openness of the publication, there are different recommendations, there are different standards. Science is in itself a universal category, so it should not be stressed that there are recommendations from the European Commission. Well, isn't it enough for you, President of France Makron said yesterday, it is over with joining the EU. No more EU enlargement. So as much as you distract yourself, us, and the nation that European standards, the European Commission, the EU is something that is specific to Serbia. You can see that even EU members want, in a way, to distance themselves from that community, to turn where life is real. They turn to where science, among other things, is progressing and where the openness of science has this practical application. The European Commission, the EU is a thing of the past, with this done. Of course, every standardisation, when it comes to the openness of science, open access to publication, data that is relevant to science, should be respected, but why emphasize, apostrophe of the European Commission. Europe doesn't want you. You're like a married man. You want to get married, but you won't be married. You will join the EU, but the EU will not. And why do we have to put the European standard in place everywhere? Well, it's only a matter of time, we assume these laws are being made for a long time, and it's only a matter of time before the EU falls apart. People, you can see for yourself that there's nothing about her, that everyone runs their own politics, and you're falling for the fact that in advance it's a disaster.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56558	Thank you, colleague Mircic. The word has Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56559	Since there was enough of this direct address, with some very interesting messages You got it. [[President: I apologize, you will reply.]] So since there has been a lot of direct address with some very interesting messages, I must note that Article 6 does not say anything that seems to bother the amendment's promoter, or it does not say that someone will enter the EU and come out of it, it will not even indicate whether it is a matter of the future or the past, but simply says it is based on recommendations from the European Commission and international good practice. The promoter would like us to stand here based on the recommendations of international good practice, right? So he would also include what comes from the official Europe, or the European Commission, with everything else. So he wouldn't eliminate it even if it were the way he suggested a formulation. Something else here, of course, was much more interesting, not what sort of schedule the words in the sentence would be. It's messages. So, is something useful to us or not useful. Here, on one single case, on the case of today. Today it seems to me that the keys to more social housing are officially handed to me in Novi Pazar. So, more families will be happy. This will be done by representatives of the Serbian government along with the head of the EU delegation in Serbia, as it is behind this, among other things, European money. I think that's one very concrete answer to the question -- is it useful for the state of Serbia and its citizens to have good co-operation, which we can apply for different funds. These funds, of course, concern not only the science portfolio, and they are much bigger than anything we talked about today, we have talked about it in principle, we are talking literally about tens of millions of euros, than European projects based on the recommendations and standards of the European Commission, and on which our researchers and these young researchers, whom we have provided the future and perspective in Serbia, stable sources of funding, good jobs, this law and a good solution to provide housing. But they along with their colleagues from Europe, if you want in a broader sense, compete and implement projects that bring extraordinary money, so it's about tens of millions of euros. For many areas of social activity and for many parts of our country that are poor and have greater needs, the opportunity to compete for such money is extremely important and I think there is nothing controversial or bad in it, so it does everyone rightly good, and whether this person personally, intimately, politically wants to be a member of this organization or that political community, has absolutely nothing to do with it, so there is no concrete science. The last sentence, if we're going to narrow things down to whether or not you agree with political assessments, we can also discuss it, although it may not be a place, but then the amendment promoter would have to think carefully about the level of agreement with Samo Fabrizia, directly coming from the ranks of the MPs of the SRS, it's an extremely interesting topic if you want to talk about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56560	Thank you, Dr. Orlic. The People's Messenger Milorad Mircic has the word. Right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56561	She has an old folk – “the traveler speaks of the Turk”. He who until yesterday advocated that Serbia should at no cost be left to the EU, with EU blackmail, to accept European standards at any cost, is now speaking the other way around. It's hard to get along with people like that. Why? Because you don't know what their original is. When such individuals or politicians sort things out with themselves, then we Serbian radicals will not waste time, and we will enter into one controversy. It is no wonder to get along with people who, in their programme, have the only commitment in their ideology, which is to join the EU, but it is very strange or, almost wasting time on people who have had a good share of their political careers saying it is devastating that Serbia accepts European standards under these conditions. Here it is not necessary to spread the story, the European Union is not only helping through its funds to Serbia, it is helping other non-EU countries, but it is the interest of capital, it is the European Development Bank, these are the financial corporations behind it. As far as Fabrizia is concerned, there is no difference between the SRS' position when it comes to Fabrizia or any of the EU's representatives. We are solely against such giving us a lesson, in particular, you have introduced a practice to enter this parliament, to address their Italian or even English international in the Serbian Parliament, and when we SRS rebel when we oppose the greatest opponents, it is not those who have been advocating from the beginning and who are Europhiles or advocating to join the EU, but those who have turned overnight, it is very strange, but having tradition, bearing in mind experience in the Serbian people, nothing surprises us that you are turning against that European Union overnight. It is obvious to you in the first place how and how to survive in power, not whether it will be Fabrizia or someone else on behalf of the European Union.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56562	Thank you, colleague Mircic. Right on the line, Dr. Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56563	I've certainly never dealt with these categories, who's a prostitute, who's a Turk, as it was said a little while ago, nor do I think of it. But I, unlike the amendment promoter, love to discuss with those who are inclined to change their minds overnight. For example, with the amendment's proposal and the rest of the parliamentary group, which now seems to have a problem with not remembering that in 2008, the words of their leader were literally read -- We want them, therefore, to be an equal partner in the European Union, with Kosovo and Metohija in Serbia. So that's what they used to think, and that's what they used to say, I can say, and they swore, they applauded, so they changed their minds overnight. It is always interesting to me that when we talk to the EU, we should remember it together. As for the question of what is useful for the citizens of Serbia and what where they see, the most important thing is what the last Mr. Proposer said - what is most important to whom here. It is for us, and we do not hide it, and we always say it openly, most importantly, what is Serbia's interest. So is Serbia's interest that we can provide our citizens with quality apartments? Yes, it is. Is it a good thing we provide European money for that? It is again. Is it an interest to provide good projects for our young researchers? Again, unequivocally, yes. Is it a good way to do it by applying for European funds as well? Yes again. Who in this country may mind that we have a good trade in goods, or a good placement of our products, anywhere in the world? No one's bothered by that. Everyone's just happy when they are. And when 75%, about 70%, is the last data, these exchanges with the countries of the European Union or that space, what does it have to do with anyone? Of course you don't mind, everyone thinks it's a good thing. It wouldn't be better if we lost our ability to interact with the world that way. There's no alternative to that if you look at where we are geographically. What's so controversial about 70% of all the grants we get from that side? There's nothing to argue about. We're using it again, because it's good for us, by investing in our infrastructure, by us encouraging some business somewhere. Among other things, since there was a relationship in the context of gender equality, and to encourage, as we do today, new grants are being delivered today, female entrepreneurship. These are all useful things for the citizens of Serbia. What anyone once thought or didn't think, but he applauded because that's what the president of his party said, it's just that one man's problem. But what is useful for the citizens of Serbia, it should be our common concern. We, as you can see, are acting that way, so perhaps we of these citizens and have the support we have as much as we do. And those who like to talk about some interesting parallels, the Turks, are not Turks, etc., where are they today and why? That's a question for them.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56564	Thank you, Dr. Orlic. Right on the line, Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56565	The Serbian Radical Party has not changed its stance. The fact that you quoted your former president, Vojislav Seselj, and that is repeated by your current president, Aleksandar Vukic, is, Serbia is always ready to be a member of any organisation as a whole, comprehensive, with Kosovo and Metohija. And that was a condition. But you see that Europe has changed, Europe does not want Serbia with Kosovo and Metohija, Europe insists on Kosovo's independence. Well, I guess you get that, huh? As far as these privileges are concerned, I must once again call upon something that has long been known in the people - no cheese in the mousefish is free of charge. Not even co-operation with the European Union, what you say is an advantage, the placement of our products, is not exactly to boast. More Serbia imports than it exports to the EU. More Serbia has returned when it comes to the development of the economy after such co-operation with the EU, I guess that's clear to everyone. You're boasting about something that's not exactly praiseable. You boast of something that destroys the Serbian economy in any case. And that exports that you always state, and it's content and that in an increasing percentage of foreign products, under the precepts. These are foreign companies that, with a cheap labour force, produce in Serbia and are installing their final products in their countries. And you're showing it. Your best example is flag. You still think "Fiat" is a domestic product. Why didn't Vladimir Vladimirović Putin accept it? Because it's an Italian product, because that's where all the parts that are imported are built in. There's almost no part that's being built on and it's domestic production. Because the final profit goes to Italy, not Kragujevac. Well, here, that's what's happening in front of your eyes, you're not seeing what's going on in Kragujevac? They now justify their lack of justification and do not have the need for such a workforce. It's not much to brag about. There are some things that are commendable. But you haven't found a very good example. As far as the alternative is concerned, there's an alternative, there is. Euro-Asian co-operation is an alternative. Well, the entire European Union or larger countries, stronger economically, are turning towards Asia and that market. It's a real market. Even, you see, America is fighting for that market, and you're still, like a Kraut, yelling - the European market is perspective. It's not the European perspective market. You know that.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56566	Thank you, colleague Mircic. Right on the line, Dr. Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56567	The main export partners of the Republic of Serbia -- under one, Italy, about 2.4 billion dollars, Germany, 2.3 billion, Bosnia and Herzegovina -- 1.5 billion, Romania -- 1.14, Russia - 1.02, Montenegro - 900 million, Hungary - 775 million, Northern Macedonia - 740, Bulgaria - 725, Slovenia, etc. What aren't they, major export partners? Come on, think again. So we're talking about concrete things, very serious and very real. Is this reality in Serbia? Yes, it is. Who was able to offer an appropriate alternative, but not in words, but in particular in works? Where, for example, did you find a new, fantastic market, measured by billions of dollars? If you want to talk seriously, then give the market that is measured by billions of dollars, so let's see what we can offer that market, what are the prices on that market, who would compete with, who would want us to participate in that market and what, so let's substitute, here's how much, when this is summed up for what I've just told you, it's one seven or eight billion, related to exports, just exports, to countries that you don't think we should have any co-operation with. I think it's completely pointless to talk on the subject, because I'm not going to get that answer. Not because you can't give it yourself, but because there's no such answer, it doesn't exist. About 50,000 people have been mentioned that only German companies employ in Serbia. You think it's not good, it's not quality business. Maybe some jobs like a thousand and a half, two thousand euros in wages, net, monthly, and such companies there, they're not good for you. A thing of taste, of course. Give me an alternative. Where are 50,000 people going the moment we conclude that you are right, that it's all harmful and we say – now we're going to break up and we're going to look for some other ways and some other solutions? I'm telling you in advance, we're not going to hear that answer, not because there's not a proper ability for the one I'm asking to provide an answer, but because there's no such answer. So, to find ten people out there and imagine all day, they won't be able to tell me these 50,000 people are going to be doing these jobs from tomorrow with so much and so much pay to make them feel much better. As for change, Europe is changing, it is not controversial. Everything changes. Serbia is changing, too. The whole planet is changing. But I'm glad we just heard that there are some things that are constant, that the SRS doesn't change its mind, that it still wants to be an equal partner in the EU. By the way, you said that a few months after most of the European countries admitted so-called. Independent Kosovo. Then it didn't bother, and apparently, if you don't change your mind, it doesn't bother you now.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56568	Thank you, Dr. Orlic. Right on the replica Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56569	It's hard to get along like this, saying who changes, who doesn't change, who has ideology, who doesn't, who's constant in their attitudes. It's hard to argue because the public knows it. If by something recognizable we are Serbian radicals, we are recognizable by our ideology – we are not changing it, we are not adapting for cheap political points. I wish you'd stayed consistent in part when it comes to KIM. You can see that Europe insists on Kosovo's independence. Look at that! What is a wiser political response or an adequate attitude than to blackmail and say – only with KIM, only a comprehensive Serbia can be not only an EU member as a community, but any other community? What you've listed, sir, is improvisation, and it's not something that would seriously deserve a comment. You listed our export to Italy as large. You refer to "Fiat" as an export article in Italy. What you say about Germany, you count Bosch and other German companies that produce and export to Germany here. As far as BiH is concerned, over 80% is Republika Srpska. You know, you need arguments to talk to. You can't say what you're going to say -- here we are, on average, exporting so much to individual countries. You have to tell me what exportation to those countries is. As far as the alternative is concerned, here, I'll try to explain briefly, if you can understand. The alternative is Russia, the Russian Federation. The alternative is Belarus. What's more natural than the one you import most of the energy from, from whom you import everything you need when it comes to chemical products for agriculture? What's more natural than making it even stronger? But what's the problem? It is not a problem either in Russia's will or in Serbia's will. The problem is that there are intermediators who mix, who make money on it. That's the problem. Even in Russia's exports, from Russia, they determine what will be imported, what will be sold and at what price. So is exports from Serbia. It's the same thing. When the second time you're able to choose a soufflé, you have to find a better one. This is economics, this is economics, this is life. You know, dear fellow, besides reading, besides trying to hear, you have to have a little experience to have.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56570	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56571	The perspective of Serbia has always been towards the Russian Federation. It will always remain that way, both politically and economically and in any other way.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56572	Thank you, colleague Mircic. Straight to the replica, came from the Verse of Radeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56573	It is unpopular today in Serbia to boast that someone is for the EU and then it would be good, that's what colleagues in power think, then it would be good if we were somehow acting the same. That's just not true. The Serbian Radical Party is unequivocally the only political party in Serbia that advocates Serbia's entry into the EU. Our position is – we can't go into that small people's tomb because it's where they take Kosovo and Metohija from us. The Serbian Radical Party is the only political party in Serbia that openly advocates integration with Russia, Belarus and other friendly countries. The Serbian Radical Party is the only political party on the political scene in Serbia that does not understand your military neutrality and that advocates Serbia's entry into the ODKB. That's the facts. Now trying to twist, turn, remember this or that, that's completely pointless. We are proud of the fact that we represent these views consistently and we argue that what the SRS represents is only useful for the state of Serbia and for all the people who live in Serbia. We in the SRS are glad to see more and more from the ranks of the government hearing similar tones and, more and more from the ranks of the top of the government, I think of those who decide, feeling the approaching policy of the SRS. God forbid it goes on like that. If we don't stop the road to the EU, and here they won't, that's that much more, I don't know who else is not clear anymore, but if we don't stop that road, we won't solve the problem in Kosovo and Metohija. If we change the way, if we go into integration with the Russian Federation, if we are to be admitted to the ODKB, we will preserve the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the Serbian state, and I believe that it is an interest to all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56574	Thank you, colleague Radeta. Right on line, Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56575	Well, since we have come to the conclusion that, according to Mr. Mircic, the most important experience, is that I appreciate that he is very experienced in the placement of goods in Russia, right, that I should conclude from his exposure, and in the trade with Russia, I want to discuss it a little more. I haven't read any percentages before, but I can even read the percentages to you, it's no problem. So that export to Italy carries 12.3% of Serbia's total exports. In Germany 11.9%. It's about, in turn, 2.4 billion and 2.3 billion. Someone may not like it, and he can say it -- it's a bad quality of that export, but it's bad values, 2.3 billion, 2.4 billion, BiH 1.5, Romania 1.14. I wish there was more exports to Russia, as I wish there was more exports to any country in the world. The bigger exports Serbia has, the better Serbia. It's a clear thing. Russia is one, two, three, four, five in a row when we talk about exports. If Mr. Mircic, as a man of great experience in the placement of goods in Russia, can help make that level two, three, five times bigger, I think he's more than welcome. But by answering my previous question as he answered, I understand how much he could help and how much he was interested in it. For your information, if someone has established good political relations with the Russian Federation, it is Alexander Vukic and the Serbian Government, supported by the SNS. Do I have to explain that to you? Do we have to repeat today what fantastic things we do together with Russia, which were completely unimaginable during the previous regime and that of Boris Tadic, but also those of his Gilas, you know, him, right, remember him, you cooperated with him, Jeremic and others. That's what it used to be. So what Serbia has today, I think you can only be satisfied with that level. And when we talk about Kosovo and Metohija, the fact that Serbia is able to act today to withdraw recognitions so-called. ‘independence’. Thirteen confessions we've managed to act to withdraw, and I guess that's a clear, concrete indication of the relationship to this issue. Who else could have boasted of something like that? Tadic, never. Your Gilas, never. I don't know if you've been involved in these efforts to get a confession back? I don't think so, but it would be good if you could help with that, as well as the increased placement in Russia, which is measured by billions of dollars. And you and I both know how realistic this is, but what is very important, since you said that the data is improvisation, that we stick to things that are undeniably clear, it is undisputed that there are principles that do not change in politics, which are, as it were, standing constantly "cano clisurine". It is such a principle that you today have confirmed, the SRS, that it still believes Serbia should be an equal partner in the EU, as it thought in 2008. I just want to congratulate you on that principle, that's all.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56576	Thank you, Dr. Orlic. The right to replica has Milorad Mircic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56577	Here, briefly and clearly, do you not notice that we, Serbian radicals, insist on you individually prominent SNS officials, as well as membership, to see at least part of the party's vice president. He had seen it before and knew that it was a delusion, to live in the hope that you would enter the EU, and not to give up the works of your territory. He's turning more and more to Russia, he's not turning as far as we Serbian radicals would like, but what to do, that's reality, he's got his own political party, we're glad. Don't realize this that we honor you that it's a bad thing that you're turning more and more towards Russia. We would like you to do it as quickly as possible, because there is great uncertainty in front of Serbia. As far as experience, knowledge and everything else is concerned about increasing exports or co-operation with Russia, don't worry, dear colleague, when the SRS takes responsibility for Serbia's leadership, it will be. You can't ask the opposition party to do that. I don't want to talk to you about who, you about Gilas, we don't care, I don't care. Your thesis on co-operation with the concerned is based on the following, you were members of the board of directors, you participated in the government. It is as if someone were to make a claim now and say – you, Serbian radicals, participate in the work of assembly committees, working bodies, you participate in the government. Just the same. What is the basis for what you claim? You were paid to participate in the management boards at the Belgrade city level. We are also paid to participate in the work of the congregation committees, so that is the logic that you are guided by. We don't want to justify ourselves where we don't need to, there's no reason for that. And the fact that you have a matrix to promote that gentleman, you have to change that matrix. We have long been in politics, experienced in propaganda, you cannot artificially polarize Serbia. Serbia will no longer be deceived. Serbia will no longer be divided between those who are quick to join the EU and those who are to enter the wars. If it was the Democrats who destroyed Serbia in the wars, so Serbia does not want to be someone who will destroy it overnight. You can't fool Serbia by sharing, by determining who the opposition is and who isn't. Serbia will recognize that. Don't worry. As far as principle goes, we don't give up on principle. That's how political parties are recognised. Don't worry if the SRS wants to be a member of some organisations, an association. Of course, always as an equal partner, and as an equal partner, Serbia has been accepted by the Russian Federation. Both exports and co-operation will grow economically with Russia, only to change Serbia's co-worker's awareness. You can see that he too has aerald, is no longer so open to the West and the EU.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56578	Thank you, colleague Mircic. Right on the line, colleague Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56579	Now, from the stories of exports and international co-operation, we've come to Gilas. I have to admit that the development of this discussion was fantastic, and I understand why. Really, I didn't expect it when I said that -- I call on the amendment promoter to make a proposal, to say, that he explains how we're going to upload it, for example. Exports to Russia, that he can do it, or answer me, and where, say, 50,000 people who are citizens of this country, citizens of Serbia, and who work in German companies in Serbia, where, if we take him now and listen? And who are these people that work in these companies, the team that you're now closing, because you think they're not good because they're from another planet? No, I'd say it's worth the citizens of Serbia who are doing their job fairly and who are satisfied with the work they have, and they didn't have it at the time of that Gilas, whom you caught again, I must admit, in an interesting way. You know, to take Gilas and send someone, as he sent representatives of the SRS, to public enterprises, to boards and boards of directors, it's hard to say – it's like when I take part here in the work of the Assembly Committee, the Committee of the Serbian Parliament. Whom did we send to a public company to receive good support there, and because it is politically beneficial to deal with someone we do not love? And Gilas had a clear bill at the time, he wanted a deal with the SNS, because we were the biggest opposition, not someone else, because we eventually changed the regime, not someone else. And, if it's hard, if a soul hurts to talk about those times and remembers that, here, it doesn't have to, let it deal with the present moment. Who's in the Old Town municipality coalition with this Gilas Bastaæ? That they are not the same again and that they have no use for it again is not at the level of engagement on the Committee of the Serbian Parliament, but rather at the level of engagement to the board of directors or supervisory board sent by Dragan Gilas, of course, with the appropriate salary? So, if we're going to talk about these things, we can, it's no problem at all. You know we're ready for that subject and more than they are for it. But as for the relationship with the Russian Federation, I think that level of relationship, which you don't want to comment on, because you're really aware, has never been on such a good, high level, literally describes one fact, and I'm going to remind you of that fact right now. After decades of the medal of the country's greatest statesmen and rulers, people who led the country at a time when Serbia, or Yugoslavia was a monarchy, but also the most prominent politicians and prime ministers, came back to this country and is again on the chest of a man who leads Serbia. The last one he got was Nikola Pasic, and then, a month ago, who? Alexander Wolfie. The Order of Alexander Nevsky is today carried by the president of Serbia. He got it personally from the president of the Russian Federation and he handed it to him himself. If that's not an indication of what level of understanding, of co-operation, but not just some partner relationship, but an honest friendship, we have today, I think you won't find a better example, in Serbia, not certainly at least a hundred years to look back.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56580	Thank you. Right on the line, Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56581	Here, let me just remind the public of one fact. You remember Tomislav Nikolic's first visit to Vladimir Vladimir Vladimirovic Putin. One part of that visit is something you should never lose sight of, when the conversation is over, we were all eyewitnesses, Mr Putin said to Tomislav Nikolic – welcome Boris Tadic. This means that Russia, and this time Vladimir Vladimirovic Putin, respects all who are in Serbia's lead, respects Serbia, and thus also those who are in Serbia's lead. Whether relations are better, economically more developed, in any case, we will agree, depending on individuals who lead politics in Serbia. Russia is unchanged here. As for how to improve, here, and I'll help you with that. We have here the largest company in the production and processing of oil and petroleum products. It's Gazprom, one of the biggest companies in the world. Gazprom is someone who could be the basis for co-operation between Russia and Serbia. You ask – how? Well, by means of its Gazprom committees, it can provide a very significant placement of Serbian goods not only on the Russian market, but also on other markets. To be sure, raspberries producers or any other agricultural product this time will be paid, it is best to bring and allow the Russian Bank to open in Serbia, not like Sber Bank, but the Russian Bank. If you follow only, colleague, it will be very interesting. Second, that security, it increases the insurance house. The insurance house would be the one that would guarantee the damage that would have been done on one side and on the other, and the representatives of the Russian Federation have been insisting on it for years. You can check it out. You may also ask the president of your party if we are telling the Serbian radicals the truth. But do you know where the problem is? The problem is for individuals on one side and on the other, especially individuals from Serbia, who would intercede, to torture those raspberries, those who sell cherries and cherries to earn money. What do they need a bank for? What would the bank pay to a Serbian peasant here immediately? It's better to be in suspense, even if it can be reduced to that price. That's the problem. Well, you're aware that without chemical products for agriculture, which we mostly import from Russia, we can't expect anything when it comes to improvement in agriculture. (President: Thank you. Who holds our monopoly when it comes to artificial fertilizer? It's a private company. Well, isn't that a shame, isn't that a shame? Well, the cost of artificial fertilizer affects directly the price of the final product. How can we be ourselves in the fullest sense of the word? These are short tips as we should, guidelines, but when Serbian radicals come to power, you will see how fast it is implemented.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56582	Thank you. Right on the line, Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56583	Thank you. I said a moment ago, and I didn't repent, on the contrary. It's interesting how this debate develops, since our relationship with the EU, we've been a little bit on Gilas, to remind ourselves of his boards of directors and supervisors that you've had a great time, so we've come to Bastac, we've talked a little bit about the Russian Federation, and we've gone deep into agriculture. But speaking of that agriculture and these raspberries, what do you think, three guesses, go ahead, where's their main market? Where do these raspberries go most? Well, if it turns out to be Western Europe again, I don't know what to do. Thanks to Alexander Vukic and the SNS-backed government policy, we today have banks in Serbia that come from that part of the world with which you want as much and as much cooperation as possible. That's not controversial. That's what we remembered, I think, at the last or the previous session here, we reminded ourselves that, for example, today we have a Chinese bank in Serbia. That's when you said, "That's it, that's it." But does that mean that we've done all the work and that at the same time we can cut off co-operation with anyone else in the world and give up every other market? You know the answer. And it's completely pointless for us to spend time arguing about how that answer can or should be said. In billions, I've read exports that should be compensated on the other side. There's no place like that. There's no other market. It has only the brains, responsible and serious behaviour that Serbia takes care of itself, so that where it can establish economic relations that benefit it, and exports are certainly used, it does so in the right way, to protect its interest, its agricultural producers, but also all the other tens of thousands of workers who have found happiness and bread in companies coming from that part of the world. If we're going to talk about reminders and interpretations of personal relationships, there's no problem, we can talk about it. How much do you know the president of Serbia who won the Alexander Nevsky Order? Just remember the ones you mentioned earlier. How many such medals did Boris Tadic get or anyone else? Here, let it be the Prime Minister, the minister, it doesn't matter, so let's see what respect they had with the official representatives of the Russian Federation so they were adequately respected. You say that's it. Do you know how many names we're going to hear now in response? Zero. Just as much as we've heard the proposal for a billion-dollar product placement, the same thing we've heard answer the question of where tens of thousands of people are going to work afterwards. You say when the SRS comes to power, you'll see. Do you know when he'll be here? When I hear who from the president has won Alexander Nevsky's medal, then he'll come.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56584	Thank you, Dr. Orlic. The word is Verica Radet, right on line, and Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56585	Alexander Vukic certainly has reason to be proud to have won the Order of Alexander Nevsky, but Aleksandar Vukic is aware of something that these others are not. That medal is binding. In this very sense, we also said that it was high time that Serbia, on behalf of Serbia, identified the closest possible link to the Russian Federation. During this debate, all sorts of things were said and grandmothers and frogs interfered, talking about exports to Russia. You know, Alexander Nevsky's medal had nothing to do with the fact that from Serbia to Russia, instead of pig meat, pigs' skins went, that instead of Serbian apples, they went to Polish apples. You know, the problem is that you have a minister's position where someone else is much more fond of him than Russia and co-operation with Russia. What the president of the state is saying is that there are some people in the government working in the interests of other states, so we've been telling you for three and a half years who are people, but somehow you won't hear. To boast about some kind of exporting of the Italian "Fiata" is simply amazing. Serbia is just a transit for exporting vehicles from Kragujevac, and it has nothing to do with us. I guess that's pretty clear to everyone. When it comes to "Fiyat", we have been talking for days, months, so God can tell me for years, we ask, here and the other day we asked, and we can't get an answer, how is it possible for the Republic of Serbia's budget to make contributions to employees of the "Fiita"? So, where is this Italian Fiat, this Italian partner? We don't, unfortunately, have any use for that. Yeah, there are some people who are busy and don't let God get fired. Now somebody's going to say again -- you want all people to get fired, but that someone needs to know under what conditions people work there, he needs to know that there are now, I don't know how many hundreds, who are on some forced vacation, and that's how it happens all the time. When it comes to local coalitions, I really want to boast that we were, among other things, and that we are now in a coalition with the promoters in Požega. Almost there was a change in power because the complete leadership of the progressors in Požega went to prison, to prison because it was found that they were engaged in criminal activities, and that all SRS officials remained in their posts, no one was involved in crime and continued co-operation at the local level and with new representatives of the progressors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56586	Thank you. The word is Veroljub Arsic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, colleague Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56587	I'm advertising Article 104. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. It's about replica rights. Please, Mr. Chairman, let's go back to trying, in fact, to get back on the agenda and with further work, because I really can't listen to my fellow MPs who say that the monopoly has a private firm, and let it tell me where the state firm has it, except in some countries where it's still in the power of communism. We've abandoned communism as an ideology. Even more so, it comes from the ranks of MPs who openly oppose communist ideology, that they are supposed to be the far right, and they advocate communist ideas here in Serbia. So, social property no longer exists, changed the Constitution, voted to change that constitution, so it doesn't exist anymore. Next, my colleague Marinkovic, I heard a variety of stories about co-operation with the Russian Federation. Indeed, everyone has the right to an opinion, but I must point out that everything that can be exported from Serbia to the territory of the Russian Federation is being exported. Our problem is we don't have enough. Also, don't let anyone more insulting employees in companies where the investor is from the west, because these people from these companies get paid and in companies that come out... German "Bos" exports to Germany, so they do not work in the German "Bosa" here in Serbia, but the citizens of Serbia and these salaries are schooling and supporting members of their families. So, the communist ideology here in the Republic of Serbia is no longer passing. Whoever wants to live in the communist past, find another country.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56588	Thank you, colleague Arsic. I have a few people who were reported and somehow it's like the rain is you, as they say, the other day, the same situation. A great, reasoned debate between the two MPs, and then we have a call from colleagues who have not even been mentioned, have nothing to do with the debate. My friend Mircic, I'm really sorry, but I'd like to give you a line until the break, up to two o'clock, because you've earned it, and it's a really great debate. I now have Verica Radet, a violation of the Rules of Procedure, Natasa Jovanovic, Vladimir Orlic and counterpart Arsic are partly right. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. Thank you. In accordance with Article 112, I'm giving a five-minute break, because I'm impossible to continue my work.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56589	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. (Religion of Radeta: Rules of Procedure) ( ) Does anyone else want a word by amendment to Article 6, which was submitted by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic? No, I don't. (Religion of Radeta: Rules of Procedure) ) (Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: A Rules of Procedure! ) The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 8 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. (Religion of Radeta: Rules of Procedure) ) (Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: A Rules of Procedure! ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Comrade Peric, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56590	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister. Knowledge and science never enough. Of course, it comes with research, and it's very necessary. We want what we want before we listen. One day we are in a situation where we can present our knowledge in the world and use it in the best way possible. I have to tell my colleagues where we export it, some express it in percentages, some in absolute terms, just to say, everyone who buys Serbian goods is buying it because they have an interest. Those who create new jobs, new firms in Serbia, also work out of exclusive interest. They do not do so because of Serbian citizens, especially because of Serbian citizens, because if they were Serbian friends and this ruling regime, they would not allow food stores to be closed yesterday, both retail and wholesale to KIM, but rather those friends would come to help their friends. Mr. Minister, you are one of the most common perhaps present in this home. Given your biography, we Serbian radicals expected that there would be more essential quality and good proposals, however, I must admit that we are a little disappointed, because this is not happening. We do not dispute your wish, and above all, the need for an education system to do so. We have also proposed an intervention in Article 8, where the objectives of science and research are discussed. They are objectives, there are more, one reason is to strengthen international scientific co-operation and contribution, you say in the proposal -- in a regional, European and global research space. Isn't it enough, if you say, international space? Here's my colleague, Nedjo Jovanovic, I don't think he's judging by any more of these competitions, when karate sports are at stake, and I think he has the calling of an international or international judge, regionally there aren't, there may be some competitions that, for a few countries, are adjacent to each other, so it's regional. When they tell you that you're a leader in the region, then know that it's some kind of sports jargon, that it's some skating start, and you're swallowing it all, you're buying it. Much, incomparable is a better expression - that we also deal with international co-operation. There is a need, science cannot be closed in one narrow space, to lock itself up and to be only Serbian science. Very often, due to lack of commitment only in the education system, we have problems not knowing where these individuals were at first exhibiting extremely good knowledge and good skills, but there are a number of people who are in the education system who say – if someone is extremely talented, he should manage himself. Well, that's a completely wrong assumption, that's what we'll talk about below. Thank you. (Religion of Radeta: Rules of Procedure) )
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56591	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger of the Faith of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56592	I'm reporting from Article 32. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, shocked by how ignorant you are, Mr. Arsic. You called earlier, you said, according to the Rules of Procedure, about the work of the National Assembly. You're the vice president, and you have no idea there's no such act... Now you get nervous, break me up... [[Disabled microphone.]] )
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56593	I'm not upset at all, colleague Radet, but I'm preventing you from getting a warning. You're not a doctor to determine whether I'm stupid or not, whether I'm crazy or not. Next, my colleague Radet, to tell you, I couldn't hurt the Rules of Procedure while I was sitting down amongst the MPs. It's only for the chairman. Col. Marinkovic is not here, and among other things he gave a break, in connection with article 112. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly just to end the advertising of Rules of Procedure and Replica, since we have been leading only replicas for an hour, not a debate after one amendment. I just kept working after the break. (Miss Radeta: Let me continue.) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56594	There's no need for you to save me from a warning, I didn't say you were crazy or stupid, but that you were ignorant, and you showed that you were, because you don't distinguish those terms. You also said just now that we're in the business talk, you were saying that we're the far right, we're not the anti... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56595	My colleague Radeta, I have to tell you, it was before the break and you have no right to answer to my advertising of the Rules of Procedures I have done as a simple MP. So much for knowledge. (Miss Radeta: Let me continue.) Here you go. Again.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56596	Of course, again. You said a lot of things to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Arsic. You also said that someone who doesn't like your attitudes should be looking for another state. You've tried... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56597	Don't give me words I didn't say. Do you want to advertise the Rules of Procedure or to replicate to me about my advertising of Rules of Procedure that I had as an ordinary MP from the MPs of the bench. (Miss Radeta: Let me say it.) Here you go, let me find out at last.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56598	I don't know what an unusual MP looks like, I guess we're all MPs, but well, I guess you think you're different when you're chairman. Mr. Arsic, I'm not going to insist any further because I see you've been very upset, I'm just sorry for you, but you've gotten so mad before that you have reason to be nervous.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56599	I thank my colleagues, Radet, for distracting me. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: Rules of Procedure. ( ) colleague Jovanovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56600	You violated Mr. Arsic's 107. The Rules of Procedure, the beginning of your presidency, just before you called. Namely, you have injured the sight of all the MPs of the National Assembly and you have violated both Article 27 and 32, because if there were even a little something in you that indicates that you should respect the dignity of the National Assembly, you would not have gone from the MP's bench after you reported to the Rules of Procedure, before that, to remind the public, perhaps someone did not watch the direct transmission, left the presidency, went to the parliamentary bench, reported yourself, entered a series of replicas and debates led by counterpart Mircic with a colleague, and then you returned and began to chair the National Assembly. Is that a violation of the dignity of the National Assembly in your opinion? In my opinion it is and I will ask, I will insist that the National Assembly declare it, because not only have you violated dignity, but you have misused the post of vice president of the National Assembly. What is not possible to us, and not even to Mrs. Radetti, who is one of the vice presidents of the National Assembly, you are allowed. So, at the moment you started to chair the session, you did not pay attention to your colleague, Sreta Perić, who explained his amendment to the announcement and application for the National Assembly's Rules of Procedure, not on the work, but on the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. That's why you violated article 107, obviously nervous, obviously when you experience, because of lack of arguments, ignorance, I don't know what, political debacle in the discussion with other colleagues, especially Serbian radicals, you're angry, you're nervous, you take a sharp stance, you increase the tonality of your speech by several octaves. Please, I have a hyper-sensitivity hearing, you know, like a lot of people here, you don't have to yell at me at all. You know, noise is not an argument. The arguments are knowledge, experience, dignity, respect, political breadth, political experience and everything you've had enough time to deal with politics, but here's the case he didn't want.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56601	My colleague Jovanovic, the biggest argument is true. That's the biggest argument. You mentioned in your advertisement to the Rules of Procedure that I chaired the session, came down among the MPs and advertised the breach of the Rules of Procedure. That's not true at all. I can sit in the O.R. like all the MPs, wherever I want. I didn't run the session, he led a colleague, Marinkovic, they all saw it, so I don't know how I could break the Rules of Procedure on that matter. As for the advertising of the Rules of Procedure after the break, I just asked the MPs if anyone else wanted a word of the amendment submitted by MP Milorad Mircic, nothing more. If it's a violation of the Rules of Procedure, then I don't know what it is. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: I want him to plead. The National Assembly will be declared. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladimir Orlic. Here's a colleague of Orlic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56602	Very briefly, Mr. Chairman, section 103, and I'm telling you in advance that we shouldn't make a statement about it, it's just my suggestion to you. Since it is obvious that some MPs here would like to demonstrate their great knowledge, since knowledge and knowledge of the Rules of Procedure speak, it is an extraordinary opportunity for all of us to make sure that the Rules of Procedure know the content of Article 103 paragraph 8 and the question of inadequate relationship with the time for discussion. I don't mind them saying whatever's in their heart. I don't mind letting them know what's holding them back or what they remember from before the break, a few days ago or from last year. All this is perfectly fine, but let them do so as all other MPs in accordance with the rules, as they will say from the time of their parliamentary group for debate. So let them report nicely in that time, let them say whatever they want, and we don't have any problems talking about them openly. If they want to do it unfairly by hiding behind the Rules of Procedure, that Article 103, paragraph 8, gives you the opportunity to take advantage of their time in an unfair manner, and you shorten their time for debate. In this particular case, it would mean at least two minutes at a time and in this direction my proposal goes to you, that you do it every time something like this happens again, and probably some or in the meantime will show how much they know and how much they have learned the Rules of Procedure or, perhaps even more useful, something useful they will learn today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56603	I don't think there's a need for such a strict application of the Rules of Procedure for the time being. It is that the debate has gone a little bit from the direction in which it should be moving, but I don't think we still have to use such drastic methods. Do you want the National Assembly to declare in the voting day? No, I don't. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger of the Faith of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56604	Article 27. Everyone here has the right to suggest whatever comes to mind, including what was suggested earlier, but this is the proposal we had on Friday and Thursday, and then magically stolen time for the SRS parliamentary group. We asked, Mr. Chairman and Deputy Secretary, we asked the service to deliver to us exactly how much an SRS MP has spent time on the principle debate at point 3 and point 4. Imagine, they say, some deer is on vacation and we can't get that information. So obviously you stole our time and you won't give us that information so we can tell the public how you actually work. You stole our Friday five minutes, Thursday three minutes, maybe it was the other way around. So, as bad as the Rules of Procedure is, as limited as the time of the MPs is, we want to use our time. If you think I don't have the right to a replica, then you say you can't, then you can't, as soon as it starts in the Rules of Procedure, if you don't think it can, you say it can't, if you keep it that way, we'll take your time. True, you just said that that's why there's still no time, not that there's no time, but that you think there's no reason for such a thing yet. It wasn't Thursday or Friday, so it's done. We are afraid that it will be done now because you, the chairman, are listening to the orders of the MPs of the government. For you, Mr. Arsic, every MP must be the same and cannot have any more rights over you this fellow who has just proposed this to any of the MPs. Please make sure we get this information, yesterday we asked for this information regarding the theft of time for our parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56605	My colleague Radeta, I understand your violation of the Rules of Procedure and I completely agree. According to all MPs, whether from the ranks of those MPs who support the government of the Republic of Serbia or from opposition lines or even members of the former regime, they should have the same arsenal. However, in that case, we are trying to make it clear to you systemically, immediately, systemically not by the chairman or secretary or deputy secretary, the time of over two minutes on each replica refuses from the time of the parliamentary group. Depending on the chairman at which time he will request an analysis of the time, I also avoid it, but some colleagues are not familiar with the data. With that, when colleagues from the SNS and their colleagues are taken away, they literally do not have the right to exceed the amount of time they belong to the parliamentary group. So if I were to apply such an archaic, believe me, you'd be at a loss. That is why we are trying, because of the problems that the system has, to go out to all the MPs to meet and I am not for it, as long as we go on personal grounds, to insult, to something that destroys the true dignity of the National Assembly, to take away from the parliamentary groups the time to advertise the Rules of Procedure. Even more so, I think they're here... Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: Even or whatever else, can't do both. ) Please, colleague Jovanovic, let me finish my thought. I think I've even taken up time for SNS MPs several times when they used the breach of the Rules of Procedure as a replica. I have never done this to MPs who do not support the government of the Republic of Serbia or the MPs of the former regime. Do you want the National Assembly to declare in the voting day? (Miss Radeta: No.) A new breach of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56606	There's something else I'd like to say on the basis of Article 27(1). What you just said, colleague Arsic, is the first time we've heard. Where does that say that when time is over two minutes to be taken away from the parliamentary group? Where does it say, what system, who controls the system? If that were the case, we'd all be wasting our time and the MPs of the government a long time ago. So don't make fools out of us, don't make things up here. Solve the problem of the system if there is such a problem, but it does not say in the Rules of Procedure that the time that these two minutes pass is to be taken away from the parliamentary group. If you did it on Friday and Thursday and you don't want to give us information about it, then we'll also talk about it. But you can't do that, you have no right to do that. You have the right in two minutes zero one second to rule out an MP who overstepped two minutes, you have the right. If you're a very honorable man, then you're going to use it the same way for me and for a colleague from these benches, and you're not going to let, which was earlier, not today, to get along, but it was very common, that they speak in the Rules of Procedure or in the replicas for up to five minutes, and we eventually extend 20 seconds. It all exists in that system that you say is wrong. So, please don't play with the work you're doing and don't play with the SRS. We want to do this job seriously and do it seriously. And don't when you can't handle it, then you say you've wasted your time. Don't do that and don't put the service in an awkward situation because you ordered them not to give us the information we asked for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56607	My colleague Radeta, here, in the vast majority of your discussion, I agree, but ask the question if you really want it to be that way. I tell you, you'll be at a greater loss. You'll be at a greater loss. So, the SRS parliamentary group, it's being taken away from time and I'm not allowing them to exceed. If that's what you want, no problem. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: The system cannot take time. The system can't do that. So you want the replica to last exactly two minutes, two minutes you want. My colleague Radeta, so here you are, sitting here to see. Here, come here and take a look. Don't talk in your voice, there's no need. Do you want the National Assembly to declare in the voting day? Yes, you do. According to the amendment, Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić has the word. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56608	Thank you. Article 8. The draft law on science and research defines the objectives of scientific and research development. One of the objectives of scientific and research development is certainly regulated in point 5 point 1 and refers to international co-operation at regional, European and global level. Of course science doesn't recognize borders and, of course, it needs to be connected on a global scale. In this sense, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development, precisely recognising the importance of science at global level, signed a Memorandum of Understanding in both science and China, and with South Korea, and with the United States, and with Turkey, and with the Russian Federation, and with Portugal and many other countries, precisely for reasons that science does not recognise borders, which are part of the global process and that Serbia is in step with global processes concerning scientific research. What I would particularly like to emphasise and concerning scientific and research work here on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and how the government participated through your ministry, the City of Belgrade and the University of Belgrade, is the Science and Technology Park which opened in Belgrade, which started in 2015, which employs over 650 engineers, in which it works more than 71 companies and in which they received around 20m euros in 2018. What I also want to praise, as regards new innovations and new innovative projects, especially among young researchers, is one project in the Scientific and Technological Park, a project called the so-called project. ‘smart gloves’, which refers to blind and weak-sighted persons, blind and weak-sighted people who and how they will contribute to improving the quality of their lives. It's a smart glove that can help blind and weak-sighted people identify bills, in orientation in space, in color recognition, etc. A science and technology park operating in Belgrade is also expected to open up a scientific and technological park in Novi Sad on an area of about 30,000 square metres, as well as a scientific and technological park in Nis will contribute not to brain drain, but to the inflow of brains and the opening of the market for services and products on the European market and on the regional market and on the global market, when it comes to exporting the knowledge and technology of our researchers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56609	Thank you. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? My colleagues, Radeta, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56610	Article 9 speaks of the obligations of scientific and research organisations. We are within this, we have watched where we could put one, in our opinion, an important proposal and we have done it administratively on this article, we have suggested that a scientific institute be formed within these institutions and institutes to identify and analyse all The Hague tribunal rulings. Several of our colleagues from the SRS have submitted such or similar amendments, with a similar name, because we said it was whatever the institute would call it, but it is important that such an institute Serbia must form. I'm surprised you're Minister Sarčević, when we discussed this in principle, said that you, as a patriot, would argue that in the government, you'd raise that question and think that this idea was good, about what you said. And now you're telling us that you don't accept the amendment because it doesn't comply with the concept of the bill. We really don't see what changes the concept of the law if we say within the framework of scientific and research work that an institution, the institute, should be formed, whatever you call it, will deal with this very important work for the Republic of Serbia. Here, I'll repeat, for your sake, and also for the public. In The Hague, there are millions of pages of evidence that have either been used or prepared, and are not in proceedings against Serbs who, most of them, are without any basis sentenced to large sentences in the UN tribunal. We think that Serbia, the state of Serbia, must entertain this problem for history, for the sake of the future, to shed light on the current moment and everything that has happened in Serbia, as some have liked to say since the 1990s. It's all very much related to The Hague tribunal, with its anti-Serb action. It is truly amazing that you did not accept exactly what we said, that the institute should include people lawyers with experience, researchers, scientists, but to include young lawyers who have just finished colleges, who are registered to work desks, as it is now called, and that this would be a great opportunity for these young lawyers to start their careers precisely on such jobs and to process these judgments, these materials, this evidence material, so that many of them could use for their master's work and for their doctoral dissertation and that it would really be a bouncer board for them to reach the highest academic callings, and that Serbia would leave what we really need, therefore, not because of any individual, but generally because of what it is and the way the Hague tribunal has functioned, today this residual mechanism, as it is called. I will remind you that our president has already published a dozen books where he has analysed the various verdicts, which have been made, not only to Serbs, but also to other peoples who have been in The Hague tribunal and, of course, connected them with certain topics and are indeed excellent scientific works, but simply one man, even if it was Vojislav Seselj, cannot do the job alone. That's why we suggested that something like this be formed. You, Minister, have publicly said that you will advocate, and then thinking that it will not be read, you say that it does not fit with the concept of the law, so I am asking you now to tell us if you are staying in it, so that we work together or that we continue to insist, and you are deafening yourself? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56611	The word has a minister, Mr. Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56612	Thank you. I'm just quoting in the debate in principle that I've said exactly that I'm both a nationally-determined man and a minister and a Serb, without further ado. But I also said that we have three institutes dealing with the overall problem of modern, modern history, we have even modern and modern history and the Institute of Comparative Law. The law doesn't regulate matter, so that's the answer and the initiative to form an institute. So it can start anyone, but to the Serbian government. So the government is forming such an institution. I also mentioned that the new director of Predrag Markovic, a historian at the Institute of Contemporary History, has launched a project related to this topic. I haven't had time to get to know each other better, but I'm gonna call the director to see exactly where the story came from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56613	The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Replica Minister. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56614	Just one explanation, Minister. You say such an initiative can be launched by anyone or that it goes towards the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You're a member of the government, you're a minister here in front of the MPs, and there's no better way for the government to be given such an initiative than what we're doing here. So you could accept it through the amendments, in principle, and you could continue. So, whether it's going to be done by some of the existing institutes or we still think we should form a whole new one, believe it's such a big deal, we only know a fraction of that job. It's such a big job that a serious group of lawyers and those with experience, who are already dealing with science, and these youngsters who would get involved, should spend years to finish the job. This job has to move very quickly into realisation because this residual mechanism will destroy materials that exist in The Hague tribunal. When they cease to exist and stop receiving 30,000 euros a month, how much wages are there for both prosecutors and judges, they will not care about the history of the Serbian people. So it must be done very quickly and see that, as you promised, you see that you initiate it, to get these materials, to get copies of these materials. There's also written material and CDs, and books and huge amounts of material, really, I don't believe there's an organ now that could get into that business without a serious expansion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56615	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56616	Ladies and gentlemen, I am one of those who often vote for amendments of political opponents. Chuck, sometimes when they're not there for themselves when they vote. I might vote for this, but for me, this is too tight. I'm in favor of investigating all crimes. These days we could also read about the crime of Kucan against JNA soldiers, Slovenia, Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, in the territory of our province of Kosovo and Metohija, including crimes in Montenegro, because NATO, all crimes which are the product of war and judgments, not only of the UN tribunal, but of the UN tribunal's verdicts, the UN tribunal's verdicts and national courts from Ljubljana, Zagreb, Sarajevo, are likely to be something both in Pristina and Belgrade, that these scientific research covers all these events and see whether Serbs have the right to be only criminals or have the right to be victims. All the verdicts of all these courts have challenged the right of Serbs to be victims of these wars exclusively of national courts, The Hague courts treat Serbs as criminals. They're making us some kind of shame. No one should be ashamed of not being a Serb, but no one should be ashamed because he is a Serb. Serbs can't just be criminals, Serbs have the right to be victims, because they were also victims of the destruction of the former state. Also, the Belgrade Court, the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office and the Belgrade War Crimes Tribunal should be the subject of the investigation, not only of The Hague's verdicts. Furthermore, especially the verdict of Judges Majuca and Hadjiomerovic, I will talk about it again, no one has the right to ban me, no price I will not pay. They freed the Gjilan group, which killed 80 non-Albanian victims, brutally torturing them with the method of taking the soul lightly. I will not give up on condemning this kind of Belgrade court's behaviour for various crimes, where the two judges voted on the president of the court and freed the Gjilan group and questioned even the existence of a special court in Pristina, because they said war crimes were not war crimes if they were committed after the signing of the Kumanovo Agreement. I'm not saying that the judge broke the law, I'm saying, but I'm just confirming the findings of the Supreme Cassation Court, who, following that verdict, said the judges violated the law in favour of the accused criminals, members of the KLA, at the expense of victims who were most of the non-Albanian population, that's what the Supreme Cassation Court's verdict says. I have the right, since it was 2013, to comment here in Parliament. Belgrade war crimes judges are no better than judges in The Hague, Zagreb, Ljubljana. Sometimes, I even think that these other Serbians, judges, members of political shows, who are you the independent war crimes judge when you entered the politically hired show, Olije Beckovic? Well, you've spit alone as a judge, on the independence of the judiciary. I can't agree with that, and there's no price I won't pay. I am ready for anything, to take away my mandate, to do whatever they want with me, I will not be the first and last Serb to be the victim, not only of those who are not Serbs, but also of those who were to condemn and crimes against Serbs. Now, not just because it's not too wide, I'm not voting for this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56617	Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 9 of the amendment, MP Milorad Mircic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a Messenger of the people, Milorad Mircic. Here you go, colleague Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56618	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we as a state, as a nation, have been facing so-called long periods of time. The Hague truth. That hashic truth in the background, in fact, means that everything the Hague court has ruled and all the rules imposed by The Hague court, we as a state and a people must accept unreservedly. Just remember how much international pressure it has been, especially from these EU representatives, to bring into Serbia's law that it is forbidden to comment, especially denying the verdict of the courts. First of all, it was thought of the UN tribunal, referring to those courts that wrongly made decisions or judgments against the Serbian people. Why is it important to deal with this subject? Why is it especially important for an institute to work on this subject? Because it is a topic of long-term importance for both the state of Serbia and the Serbian people. We do not know what will happen in the future, and based on false verdicts, the UN tribunal's unjust decisions, what everything and what consequences will be for the Serbian people. You see how much time, energy and everything else has been spent on the basis of individual recognition to conclude the collective responsibility of the Serb people in Republika Srpska. The basis is that Republika Srpska is a genocide and, as such, it cannot exist according to all international rules. In the long run, that's real. I only remind you that you do not lose sight of Paddy Ashdown pressing on the then establishment in Republika Srpska to accept without talking the fact that the Serb army has committed genocide in Srebrenica. At that time, the initiative of Paddy Ashdown, i.e. the international community, America, was recklessly acted, read, or the EU, to form an opinion on how Republika Srpska is a genocide and how genocide was created in Srebrenica. In the long run, the task of science is just to get to the truth or at least to the truth. The essence of all past conflicts at the premises of the former Yugoslavia may be that it is a conflict within a nation, within the Serb people of different religions. Science has to commit itself seriously to seeing what's causing it. It's not because it happened in the 1990s. If, where good luck lies, the study of all that Benjamin Kalaj has done in creating a new nation in Bosnia, to break the Serbian Corps, to form something that will burden the Serbian people in the long term, otherwise, based on that experience, could have been done in the 1990s. As a result, the SRS insists on forming an institute to deal with Hague verdicts, all of The Hague's rulings with the documentation, because the documentation can serve as a future basis for counterfeits based on which to conclude that Serbia is also a state based on a genocide. Well, don't you see the intensity in Kosovo and Metohija, according to the Americans, as they increasingly stress that a crime was committed there, that genocide was committed there? There's nothing to leave to the case, and it's science that needs a team to deal with and a final verdict to make.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56619	The 9th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. I'm a friend of mine. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56620	Mr. Minister, we have a special need, Serbian radicals have a special need to stress the importance of this issue. We look forward to the fact that that's what you said you were working on and that's what's going to be done. We have a special need to highlight this for a number of reasons. A large number of Serbian people paid in the most direct way the price of the UN tribunal's existence and now that we do not enter the theories as it is. We're doing this for a reason never to happen again. We know that in our ranks, and this is the president of our party, there is the most capable individual to study this issue, including his associates, who have been selflessly helping him for years to solve this problem as much as possible and present it not only to the citizens of Serbia, not only to Serbs, but to the entire world public. This is a problem of planetary importance. In Serbia alone, it seems to me, some people who are seriously involved in science are not aware of this and have not taken seriously the issue. That is why we believe and we know that it does not have to be regulated by law, because you stressed in the debate in principle that there are six national institutes that exist in our country. It doesn't have to be this one either, but we think, when you hear this, that you will then move more intensively together, well, here, and with historian Predrag Markovic in creating this institute that will give answers to many questions. What my colleague Mircic said, it's not the result of the 1990s, it's a projection from a long time ago. Are we gonna let that happen to us one more time? Let's be serious, let's be responsible for not only the citizens of Serbia, especially those who have already paid a high price for this, which is a complete Serbian people. I'm counting on you to report to the Assembly on your next arrival, Mr. Minister, or give us an explanation as far as this issue has come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56621	The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Tomislav Ljubenović. My colleague Ljubenović, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56622	Thank you, Chairman. On the proposal for a law on science and research, the SRS parliamentary group submitted an amendment to Article 11, which we proposed to say: "regional and European" replaces the words "and international". We have submitted this amendment because we believe that in the text of the law submitted to the National Assembly the Proposer is trying to introduce a term – regionalisation, and our amendment actually expresses our position, not agreeing with that intention of the Proposer. Otherwise, Article 11 refers to the science and technological development strategy of the Republic of Serbia. In point 1 of the proposal, the strategy is brought into line with the strategy of general, economic, social development of the Republic of Serbia, as well as other national regional and European strategies, including a strategy establishing priority areas of smart specialisation. By adopting our amendment, the text of the law would read - the strategy is in line with the strategy of general, economic and social development of the Republic of Serbia, as well as other national and international strategies, including a strategy that sets out priority areas of smart specialisation. In this way we would not only have a better text of the law, but an attempt to introduce a term of regionalism would be avoided. In addition, our solution is more comprehensive, as the proposing closely links the alignment of our strategy with European strategies, which the SRS finds wrong. Any document, including any strategy that is adopted, must, above all, be in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, rather than dictated by EU representatives. It is therefore necessary to reconsider and accept the SRS amendment proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56623	Thank you. Member of the 12th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's Messenger, the Prophet of Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56624	I don't know why, Minister, this amendment, as you wrote here, doesn't fit the concept of the law. Article 12 speaks of programmes of general interest in scientific and research work. You have foreseen as programs of general interest for the Republic of Serbia The SANU Scientific and Research Work Programme of the Mother of Serbia, which is certainly fine, but there is no legal interference with being a Serbian literary cooperative, because you said in article 33 that each of these institutions will be governed by a special law. We passed the Law on the Serbian Literature Association this year, and it is good that it is done and what is foreseen to be financed well from the Republic of Serbia's budget. What is stated by this law, among other things in Article 4, is that the Serbian Literature Association organises scientific and research affairs in accordance with the objectives set out in this law and the organiser and institution of national publishing ventures in the fields of literature, history and art. So, regardless of this fact that it's an independent organization, it was founded in private in 1892. Nothing is disputed, but we think, since it deals with really serious and scientific and research and affairs in the fields of literature, history of art, etc., that it should be given this meaning as well. I repeat, it is good that a special law has been passed and will be financed from the budget, but we simply think that we need such a thing in our scientific and research work, something not only sound, but something that does work, above all, of national interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56625	The word has a minister, Mr. Sarcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56626	Certainly, the Serbian literary cooperative is a kind of institution with Serbs, and I support everything you have said. However, it was missing when the law was almost passed in the Assembly to add both components and scientific. We have a little problem here now, because then there are no researchers. With SANU and Mother of Serbia, we only finance their projects. They here in Article 4. some position 5a has that possibility and they can also apply to the Ministry of Education and Science for certain funds, but the Ministry of Homeland remains their Ministry of Culture. What we've recently changed, and that's in Trsic. The research station is actually first imagined as a cultural centre, expanded by the Vuk Assembly, and then we added a component of education-cultural, so we put the parent ministry to be ours, but to participate in the Ministry of Culture. As we expanded activities, so the Scientific Council has expanded activities to all social sciences, apart from linguistics, then, here we are now, changing exactly how this research station is also called both scientific and cultural. So it's not a problem to change over a reasonable period of time here a couple of attitudes and get that component. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56627	Right to the replica of the People's Messenger of the Faith of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56628	It's good that at least this declaratively you accept some of the things that we of the SRS are proposing, which are, above all, of national interest and patriotism, as you said to yourself, you're a patriot, and don't God forbid you're not, and you're doing that job. Really, it would be good if, apart from making such a nice apology, that really, in some future amendments to the law, it doesn't have to be the reason for amending the law, but that your associates, too, that some amendments of the law actually account for what we do here, in fact, in terms of agreements, because if you accept something that we say, and even if you haven't formally accepted through the amendment, we count on you as a man of words to do this in some future project, where possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56629	The word has been made by Minister Mr. Sarcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56630	In addition to the claim that will confirm what you said, here's the idea of now organizing the Old Fair as a museum. In fact, we insist that it be a highly scientific institution that will contain the museum in itself, but it will do research on the scientific basis of genocide. That's how they work in Israel, and so is Jad Yours about all the other areas, because what you just said, research and crimes against Serbs and all the other troubles we've had throughout history are ways of stabilising it through that institute, so, as you know better than me, because you've been an MP here for a long time, that it's important to get both legal paper and funding grounds. We simply predicted in this law that through the Centre for the Promotion of Science and Petnica, which we talked about in principle, both Trsic and the new stations that we do have vision through the Republic register, because then we are sure that they function in one way as they fit everyone, not to be local, private property or whatever.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56631	On Article 12 of the amendment, the MPs Slavisa Zivkovic, Predrag Jelenkovic, Milorad Mijatović, Vladimir Marinkovic, Natasa Mihajlović Vacic, Ivan Bauer and Jasmina Karanac together submitted. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society accepted the amendment with the correction, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find that the amendment, with correction, has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Jelenkovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56632	Thank you, Chairman. I thank the First Ministry for accepting the amendment. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia, in Article 12, proposed "engineering science" also the words "progressive technologies". In this way they are approaching, in fact defining institutional funding programmes in the spirit of modern science flows and with the aim of monitoring modern trends at global level. Among other things, the SDPS programme is particularly apostropheal in modern technological processes, based on a higher education population capable of using all available technology. Also, when it comes to the development and application of new technologies, modern trends in development in market economy countries have shown that education and the creation of human resources are at the very top of the priorities of national strategies, as well as policies of social, economic and technological progress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56633	Thank you. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Tatjana Macura, Vladimir Djuric, Aleksandar Stevanovic and Nemanja Radojevic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Chevarlich, do you want the amendment? I've got time. You've got to pick up an amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56634	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, I want to remind you first of the promise made by the Prime Minister, which you supported, that the Faculty of Agriculture of the University of Belgrade for 100 years since the founding and successful work, has made possible what was approved in the 1950s, which is a thousand hectares of land on the left bank of the Danube, which unfortunately has not been done so far despite the government's promise. I would like to hear what the answer will be on this issue, given that Serbia's universities, according to the data I last processed in 2012, use only 0.5% of the total of about six thousand hectares of state land that are given without compensation for using certain institutions, while prisons use in Serbia 43 times more than all the universities in Serbia. Secondly, since I do not have the opportunity to ask questions in another way, I would like to refer the question to the Prime Minister who is busy with digitising, and there is a new, special portfolio in the cabinet of the Government, the Internet Department, the question is – will the citizens of Serbia, enrolled in the electoral lists, be able to vote electronically in the next election? If not, all Serbian citizens, then at least Serbian citizens in the diaspora, because if the diaspora cannot vote electronically, the question is why not, because in certain EU countries where this government is highly respected, all their citizens vote electronically. At the end of the second decade in the 21st century after Christ, Serbia does not allow Serbian citizens in Canada, Australia and the United States, Russia and China and other countries to vote electronically, but must travel thousands of miles to vote if conditions are acquired to organise the polling post. Is this regime afraid of the voices of its citizens in the diaspora, and they are good at billions of dollars and euros each year sent to their families and relatives in Serbia, because they send at an annual level about as much as the EU has remained for the entire period of Serbia's EU accession? Another question for Mr. Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development. You spoke in previous address and response to parliamentary questions, during today's day, or according to amendments, about some new future scientific centres, and from Petnica further. And I ask you, Mr. Minister, what about the scientific centres so far? What about the Gucci Potato Centro? What about the center in Zajcar? What about the steep grain Fleet in Kragujevac? Are these pastors the teachings of this country or are the institutions of this country responsible? If the state can't finance from the budget, come on, please, that in this law or some changes and additions at the most recent time we can install a model of public-private partnership and thus overcome problems, because it is a shame that Serbia is importing potatoes, and there is a potato centre in Guca that doesn't work at full capacity. And not just that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56635	The word has a minister, Mr. Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56636	I'll only rely on two thesis. For this vote from abroad, it is not my topic, nor I know, but I will remind the Prime Minister and the Minister of Agriculture that we have discussed it and that the Belgrade agricultural colleges, as well as the Novi Sad, apply for larger land ownership, so that they can implement their programmes, and of course, they are very good producers of all goods produced there, so that no one will be harmed. When we talk about these centers a little earlier, they are new youth centres, where students, founding students and high school students come in as Petnica started, but as we continue with Trsic. These are the centres for promoting science for young generations and we use certainly existing centres. Let's just say, on Goc, we're going to use the existing goods that have to be renovated. Likewise, in Tristenik and in some other Serbian cities. When you talk about these institutes that were shut down, they went out early because they had no accreditation. We were able to save two institutes - Smederjevska Palanka, vegetable and feed plants Kruševac. Otherwise, they became business societies, and we could not influence them. These brought back the category of facilities and saved them at the last minute. The issue of public-private partnership is, thank God, open and our ministry is going to translate as many foreign students in Serbia as possible through this particular model when it comes to the accommodation of foreign students, because we do not have enough capacity for now and for our students. So I support it as an idea and a proposal for other options, but it has to be a private initiative through the formation of enough researchers and intentions about what you were talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56637	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56638	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Law on Agricultural Land, this has nothing to do with the amendment, but I hope that I will be allowed what others do, too, but predict that certain areas of state-owned agricultural land on state property can be issued for the education of agricultural profession personnel. It's allowed, just for our viewers' sake, to know that it's already done and that the results are significant. As for Gucci, I regret that the government before us has ruined it and I hope that there will be some shifts. I went to that potato center in Guca. About the vote, what is most important, which the minister could not answer, every MP has the right or 30,000 voters to propose to amend and supplement existing laws or a whole new law. The law on the election of MPs, which has brought power before us, defines the way the vote is done. The diaspora is certainly allowed to vote on embassies and consulates. Maybe it's not enough, maybe the laws should be changed. But the law requires polling stations, the way ballots are printed, the appearance of a ballot, the stamp on the ballot, etc., so that electronic voting would require not only government decisions, but changes, changes and additions to the existing Law on election of presidents, election of MPs and, let's say, local self-government. But any MP can propose such a law to the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56639	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56640	On two or three issues raised by the previous presentation of MP Ševarlic. He asked whether, as he said, the government is afraid of something, or whether it is afraid of citizens, specifically, because today is not an organised concept of the diaspora vote by electronic means. That's what's said. So, first of all, Mr. Risticevic is absolutely right. For years, we have already provided the possibility that people who do not currently reside in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, who are its citizens, participate in the elections, to make a correct statement, in accordance with what the law provides and in accordance with what is the current political offer, about any level of choice that it is. So the question of whether or not these people can be spoken is absolutely not the question. That's quite clear. It's a notorious fact. In that sense, I don't see why anyone would be afraid of anyone. At least I can see that there is room for any doubts about the topic of the current government, if you like, or if you wish, the President of the Republic. Isn't the best possible answer to the question of whether he's afraid of citizens in any way or in any way Alexander Vukic, the fact that with these citizens he's right in the eyes, every day. So, literally every day. And when it visits Serbia and explains our policy today, but it also shows the results of everything that we have achieved in the last few years, and indeed we are a lot, from city to city, from municipality to municipality in this country, it is possible to hear what has been done and achieved for a specific local community, but also whenever there is a great need for people. The other day, on the left bank of the Danube, he spoke to people in his eyes and agreed on how to help them sort out that infrastructure they haven't had in decades. You can think of some chance that it was difficult for the people, whether it was a flood, a glide, a third thing, without being with the people again, eyes-to-eye, Alexander Vukitch? I say it again - I can't remember. And that's the answer to your question whether or not we're looking at citizens, whether we're afraid of them in any way. It has nothing to do with, you know, nothing at all, with an electronic vote from Serbia or the diaspora. Because if you, I don't know how you imagine that electronic vote, you send an e-mail and you say, "I, this one and that one, I want to vote for that one and that one on this one, it would be roughly as if you're taking a piece of paper now, writing it with your own hand -- I want to vote for that one, and you want to send it on someone's note to the local election board. Would you accept such a thing as a voice? I'm not sure you would. And if you want to talk about it now and how it's done in the right way, how communication infrastructure and protection mechanisms are provided, authentication, when it comes to whether you're the one who's being betrayed, how you're being protected, how you're being prevented from being changed by someone while in digital form, then what kind of server it's supposed to be on and which way it should come if it comes from abroad, and from Serbia, but from abroad, in particular, we enter a much deeper story. So that's the answer to all the questions about technique. As for the fear of the citizens, look again at what kind of relationship Alexander Vukic has with these citizens and remember, I think that you were at that debate when we talked about a law that dealt with the debt issue in the Swiss francs, who agreed with the people that this would be resolved and what models for Serbia today are receptive and possible and that were eventually applied. Well, again this Alexander Vukic, by crossing the street when he saw people gathering, asked them – what is it, people, let's see that we agree, a solution to make, a single-handed, without any security, without a police escort, as it does every day. It's our relationship to the citizens and a distance indicator, which, of course, does not exist. Do you know who has, Mr. Chevarlic, obviously a problem with citizens, uncertainty definitely, I think that uncertainty is based on some fear, if we talk about fear of people? Well, this Dragan Djilas, Bosko Obradovic, you remember the man who led the parliamentary group that you belonged to yesterday, who is no longer there, because you have come out of it, but also others, and now there is no longer any more, Vuk Jeremic, therefore, all of these sizes, which they consider to be very large political leaders in this country, of course, with the list of all the members of the former regime, who, when you wonder where these people are today, have retreated to the virtual world. Do you see them trying to talk to the people somewhere, talk about something, make a deal, make a deal? We know you and I have nothing, but do you see them doing anything at all? Well, they're gone. There they sit all day behind those Twitter warrants, wise things, big leaders in the virtual world, Twitter politicians, with their Twitter parties and Twitter movements, some Twitter communities, rallying on Twitter mitts, and that's literally all these people do. If you look at what their environment is all about, it's just the admiration of some virtual world, some Twitter thing. Twitter something, literally, or Twitter experts, Twitter experts for not knowing what or Twitter journalists. All these people out there today, all day long, admire themselves, literally experience the enthusiasm of having a number of followers, as it is called, lazing, sherving, and so on. It's literally complete their engagement. When it comes to imaginary politicians with Twitter, when it comes to imaginary experts with Twitter and when it comes to imaginary journalists with Tivter, who do nothing else and do nothing else, there they promote themselves, and whenever they see a thumb or a heart pop out there, as it is graphically marked there, they feel that they have achieved something important for that day. Do you know why? Because of this uncertainty behind which, of course, that fear you mentioned, but you mentioned it to the wrong address, because of the fact that in the real world, Alexander Vukic, the SNS, our politics and our relationship with the people cannot possibly compete. You know what else is more interesting? If their Twitters were to be organized by some kind of election, and there Alexander Vukic beat them with 50% plus, and for that reason, although tucked into his virtual world, they seem to be terribly dissatisfied there as well.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56641	The word has been given to the People's Messenger Miladin Shevarlic, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56642	Thank you. First, if I'm not mistaken on Friday, the government celebrated two years of successful work. Two years of successful work and the Internet department, so I don't make a mistake, in the government office of Serbia. If it wasn't enough for two years for the Serbian government to come up with a way of e-voting at least our citizens from abroad, who should travel thousands of miles to a polling station in the consulate or elsewhere where voting conditions are obtained, then what should we talk about? You have experience from other countries, from the EU you see yourself as regards the Ombudsman instead of the Citizens' Protectors, etc. I don't see why you don't look up to each other about the electronic vote. Normally, it involves security, protection of identity, protection of the reliability of his voice and everything else. I don't see why you're complaining about anything to me about it. I'm not the one who's supposed to provide that. The government should propose an amendment to the law. I may, as an MP, but I have in mind a three-year experience in this assembly that no opposition proposal, except for Mr Chanka, only his proposal has been discussed here in three years. No other proposal has been considered. All of what you're saying, let's say the Swiss and the contribution of Alexander Vukic, that's what the opposition has proposed earlier. I do not see that anything new has been proposed by Alexander Vukic, except for the way in which he realised and provided 100m euros in donations to the banking sector to resolve the issue. Thank you. (Miss Radeta: Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56643	Wait a minute, colleague Radeta. Mr. Chevarly, you were lucky to be finished on time, otherwise I'd like to give you a heads-up. The MPs here have passed the Law on the Conversion of Loans, not the President of the Republic. We've made a decision that one part of the loss covers the state, nothing more. Don't accuse other people. So we MPs, not president of the state. You don't have the right to a replica, not at all, I'm just telling you next time you're gonna get a warning. The People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophet of Rade, has the word, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56644	In accordance with Article 27. Mr. Arsic, I would like to suggest that we discuss whether this article will be respected or not, in general, by the Rules of Procedure. We, again, were denied during the time that belongs to our parliamentary group on Friday, and on Thursday and we haven't received any information about it yet, and this happened by a fellow from the ruling majority's parliamentary group, who spoke before Mr Chevarlic, insisting publicly that we be stripped of the time when we speak for more than two minutes based on replication. Just before that gentleman here spoke for eight minutes, 8.09 minutes, reported that he was replicating and that time had not been taken down by your party's parliamentary group. So, no time has been taken off on whatever basis he answered and answered, please, Arsic, listen to me, according to the amendment, on whatever basis he reported, eight minutes had to be taken down by your parliamentary group. You don't have to do this, but then you can't do it to us either. We will not allow you to make MPs of the second order. We are the People's MPs of the SRS. We do this job great, we do it the best we can, and we're sure we do it well, we're prepared to come to sessions, we read bill proposals, we discuss with ministers, we discuss with fellow MPs, and you can't handle us stealing time. If this is a rule... (President: Bring the end. I'm finishing this sentence. If this is the rule that happened just before, then, please, let that rule be established at least for this item of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56645	Now let me answer by article 27. My colleague Radeta, first of all, did not ask that the time you used for the replica, for more than two minutes, be taken away from the time of the parliamentary group, but asked that because of the injuries of the Rules of Procedure, which you used to replicate, that time should be taken away from you, not from the replica. First that. Another thing, are you going to apologize to me, my colleague Orlic or anyone else in the SNS, you don't have to. I'm telling you that you don't have to, but apologize to the employees of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, because you just accused them of not doing their job properly. A colleague, Orlic, did not report that he was replicating his colleagues to Ševarlic, but reported after the amendment. That's the first thing. The second thing, the time that was taken from him was taken from the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Do you know how to read? Then read it. I just told you. You can accept that as true or not. I don't care about that at all. That's your problem. I told you, it's time for fellow Eagles to do the math. Whether you accept it or not, that's not my problem. Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic. Who's she replicating to? I'm sorry, colleague Orlic. Are you gonna let me run the session or not? He's not replicating you. I'm not obliged to tell who. If you follow the session, I am not obliged, as you say - it does not say in the Rules of Procedure, it does not. So, before him spoke colleague Ševarlic, then Orlic asked for a replica, you, meanwhile, requested a breach of the Rules of Procedure, the request for a replica remained. He's not replicating you. He's replicating his colleagues. (The Faith of Radeta: So explain.) You keep telling me to follow the session, and so do you. Here you go, colleague Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56646	Thanks again. Mr. Ševarlic mentioned a few more things and each of them deserves to get a sentence on the other side. He says – what is new is done by Alexander Vukic or by Alexander Vukic, for example. About the Swiss debt ratio? Well, just so much that the problem is solved in relation to what people were talking about, Mr. Chevarlic, who you're sitting with, and who made that problem, who personally participated in it, and then when Alexander Vukic solved it, he jumped to yell -- no, it's no good, don't solve it, you're going to make me don't know what and don't help the people we've been pretending to care about and we're defending them, don't do anything because it might lead to someone voting for you tomorrow. Just as they were, Mr. Chevarlich, according to the amendments to the Criminal Code, so-called. Tian's law, the same thing. That's where people show, you share benches, or you share, I don't know anymore, how much they care about any of those topics or anything about the people. The moment Alexander Vukic finds a solution and that solution is realistic, we can take it out as a society, for example. When it comes to finance, there's a lot of things we can do today that we couldn't imagine sometimes, you know, and you understand, at the same time these speeches, it's no good. It doesn't matter that someone has a bigger salary, a bigger pension, that we've solved some important problem, which someone can survive, nothing matters. It is only important to be against Alexander Vukic, us as parliamentary majority, or anything we do. It's a good thing you mentioned Friday and a session marking two years of government work. Very good, just for what I'm talking about. Because of what we were saying then, and could be heard about higher salaries and pensions, that pensions for the last two years have increased by 12.5%, that in healthcare and salary education, 28% on average, in the public sector, 12-23%, that the minimum labour price has increased 19.5%, foreign investment is 17% higher this year than the last one, which was also remarkable. It is an answer to what Serbia can do today, and it could not imagine at the time of your Gilas, your Jeremic, Obradovic and others, who may not have understood the technique better than you, but there was no more in Europe than, how many, one or two countries have introduced that kind of digital vote. You know how much, and Dragan Gilas knows, why it's important to settle debt in Swiss, or why it's important to make changes to the Criminal Code. Some people, some things aren't interested. Dragana Gilas, we don't have to explain it, not to mention anything, except for his 500m euros, and Serbian citizens are very interested, and that's said last Friday, and I'm glad you heard, which will be room for an even bigger pension increase by the end of the year, an even bigger salary increase. So much for what anyone in this country cares about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56647	Right on the line, MP Miladin Ševarlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56648	Thank you. I don't understand why I like Gilas, Vuk Jeremic and so on. With whom I had nothing to do with before or during this term. Except for the need to intercede me, possibly, in their absence from the congregation, say something about them. That's your problem. I don't want to get into it. As far as the parliamentary group in whose composition I was until I got out of that parliamentary group, as far as I know none of these MPs were involved in the previous regime. If it's true he was involved, tell me, maybe I don't know, really. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56649	Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56650	Mr. Chevarlic, what do you have to do with them, as they're said professionally in military terminology, well, you've united forces. Yes, you were on their election list, were you on their election list becoming a national MP, were you in their parliamentary group until yesterday, etc.? You say there were no members of the former regime in that environment of yours. What was the name of that list and who did it? Wasn't there a little DSS? Who burned and burned during the DOS government of this country? Isn't that exactly the DSS? That they weren't at the time when they were burning and burning just like you from the DSS, e.g. The Colubar, the very two of whom you were in the parliamentary group, transferred money from the Colubara. Rewind a little film so remember, who led the various ministries that were right for those Two men in whose parliamentary group you were in until yesterday, were transferring money too. Was that line 431 – aid to NGOs 2007, 2009, 2011? Whose governments were they if not all DOS, if not the yellow company, the original company, but the DSS with which you were also a political associate in the previous elections, with the Dwri in whose parliamentary group were you in until yesterday? I don't know, honestly, and I don't care. You spoke at the last session, because you asked, how much was it, some 3,000 euros that Bosko Obradovic did not, he did not want to, but kept to himself, etc. I trust you all. I don't think you're lying at all, believe everything, but it can't be an alibi for what was a day or two before that. Because you're not in good relationships today, you can't say that you don't know who these people are, what they've robbed in this country, how much they've made rich, how much they've pumped out of Colubara and various ministries, other companies if you want, how much Dragan Gilas has been rich, and so do the little kids in this country. As much as Wolf Jeremic got rich from where, I think that's what the branch owners repeat. So, Mr. Chevarlitch, to be honest, you know very well who these people are. If, in any sense, you are touched by the conscience that you are with them at any time, any political co-operation and I understand that, and I will not insist on it, but it is your obligation to speak openly when you speak from this room, to tell the citizens who they are, what they are, and what they are, and not to be real ignorant, because if we pretend, we will also have to remember.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56651	Right on the line, MP Miladin Ševarlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56652	I'm sorry. I think Mr. MP re-abuses my statement, because I never said I asked Boška for money to give me, but I asked that part of the state's money that this state singles out for every MP and pays at the expense of the parties according to the number of MPs who entered parliament, to single out 50% for the engagement of two co-workers. Where good luck is that it is a principle that should be respected by all members of the group and parties who have MPs, because we would train at least 500 young most capable magistrates and PhDs from different areas, and we would not contribute to leaving Serbia. Secondly, I think it's familiar to all of you, and at least here in this room, which even today after the opposition's release we're working on, that I acted as a non-partisan MP and on your case, giving a quorum when I didn't have to give and opposition MPs don't give a quorum, because I felt that because of one or two votes, I didn't have to suffer the general public and the Assembly. If it's my fault, say it, I won't in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56653	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56654	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising Article 106 and Article 107. Rules of Procedure. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, you just heard what money means. Mr. Ševarlic publicly admitted that he was looking for money in an illegal way. On this occasion, I will only remind myself of that old project by Dusan Petrovic and the unpaid 63,000 euros to revive livestock farming on the Old Mountain from the World Bank's loan, and in the end these top experts have concluded that there is no longer any such autochthonous livestock industry and that this should be given to consulting services. Well, you take very well from Dusan Petrovic 63,000 euros and you don't criticise the parties of the former regime, not then, and not now. Now you're calling for illegal conduct in violation of the law. Mr. Orlic, you certainly know the Law on the financing of political activities. Non-party personalities on someone's list have no right to finance. So they don't have the right to ask for money because it's the right only the coalition partners of the political party can have, provided that they listed it in a coalition agreement which, rightly so, Mrs Radeta, belongs to. So independent individuals don't have the right to ask for money. One more thing, the Activity Financing Act is a decadently stated why this money can be used in political activities, and you all know those 30 million Boška Obradovica who illegally pumped into fictitious entrepreneurial actions, that it was a serious offense, and at the time, Mr. Ševarlic did not think to criticise so the 30 million lost from the Serbian budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56655	Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 87, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'd like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 6 p.m. Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56656	First of all, Mr. Risticevic is absolutely right. Now he reminds me, this case was identical to the one we had earlier in this session, and it seems to me that Gjorge Vukadinovic is, right? In an identical situation, he broke up his co-operation, to put it this way, with a parliamentary group, or with the Democratic Party of Serbia itself. He also insisted that the money that stands out for him, as a MP, be transferred to him personally, so they did not agree on it. Mr. Chevarlic, you obviously didn't understand, I did, it seems clear enough to me, and I will repeat. I don't blame you for what happened with Gilas, Bosca Obradovic, Kolubar, ministries of various kinds, etc., I just call on us to talk about it openly and not pretend to be ignorant, not pretend that one of us here hasn't heard of these things and doesn't know. I believe, once again, that you had some good intentions when you asked Bosko Obradovic for money, and he decided to keep it to himself. I'm not getting into your motives. Maybe it couldn't have been done by law, possibly. I really don't know, but I didn't charge you on that occasion. I'm just pointing to the fact that it's Bosko Obradovic's relationship to money, but the complete environment in which you found yourself, where the DSS is all over the story. Among other things, did they not borrow from the DSS a valuable co-worker of Bosko Obradovic, who is probably with him today in what is left that these Dvori who no longer have an MP group, because the lady just came to them from the DSS, who was headed by the state, who participated in the 24 most controversial privatisations. Where in the whole game was Dragan Gilas, who has been with Dveri since the very beginning, from the moment they decided to become a political party? Have you seen the testimony, the statements of the people who were in the Dvori at the time, who were at the very top of that organization at the time? I think Mr. Glisic is speaking openly today. Mladjan Djordjevic, the right hand of Dragan Gilas, although I don't know how to tell you honestly who's boss, Gilas Jr. or Junior Dragan? The man directly financed Dvori during that period. Looks like from the moment he started all the time, he didn't seem to stop. So they are a project created by Dragan Gilas, a yellow company, the DS at the time, obviously with a clear goal and the intention to be used for political purposes. Whether to cloud the water among those who have some national feelings or what else their intentions were, I really don't know, but it's obvious that there's a clear string there and that it's for the people who have been there to see it clearly from the very beginning. You know what, when someone like Dragan Gilas, who, what he had on the line, and what he had from saving when he became a functioner in this country, and with which he ended his mandates and moved on to new ones, just remember. So when he was from a man who was brutally rich, who became unmistakably rich when he was in political office, while he was in public office, and he got rich precisely because he was at these functions, he abused the worst possible. With such a man, you make any kind of deal, you organize a party, a movement, whatever political appearance you expect, so much so that there can be morals, honesty, concern for the citizens, as much fear on the other side of those citizens as there can be. I think these things are completely clear, how many ratings do any of these people have today? Just as much as they deserve. Dragan Gilas can't form a board one honestly, but he has to buy about two, somewhere three people so he can boast that the organization has, so many people love him. So many people love Boško Obradovica, whose group you were in yesterday and from the DSS with which you were on the electoral list and everyone else you worked politically with. That, Mr. Chevarlich, is all I'm pointing at all the time, we need to say it openly and correctly both you and me and anyone third in this room, the truth that's being heard, and I'm not looking for anything else, I hope I'm not asking too much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56657	Since we have re-entered political topics, not work on the subject of the agenda, in accordance with Article 112. I'm giving the Rules of Procedure a break and we'll be working on it at 15.00 hours. [[After a break.]] Dear People's MPs, we continue our work. The People's MP, Natasha Sp, submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. Jovanovic. Here you go, colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56659	Mr Minister, we, in Article 12, have proposed that when obtaining an opinion from the competent institutions of culture and institutions, an opinion be obtained from the Serbian literary cooperative. You have already heard in our opening presentations in the principle debate why we are putting emphasis on first and foremost raising the reputation of this institution, which, although founded by private donors and members 127 years ago, has made a significant contribution in literary and general culture, has affected the awareness of the importance of Serbian language and literature in our people. You also heard in the afternoon debate, the fact that the Law on the Serbian Literature Society was passed is something that is a good move, that the state recognized the Serbian literary cooperative as a cultural good and has the basis and basis for its now budgetary funding, because that is what the paradox is that so far it was not possible, until there was a change of law, and hence budget projections, because foundingly such as Stojan Novakovic and Jovanovic the Dragon had no parent numbers that, imagine, required certain banks to grant them credit. We hope that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and with your recognition for the projection of the 2019 budget, will include this funding project in the way that the law predicted it, but that, in spite of the Mother of Serbia and all of the above mentioned relevant institutions and the Serbian literary cooperative, which someone has said nicely represents the blue eyes of Serbian literature, because of those famous blue editions of our most famous writers, therefore, that you will use the potentials they have in scientific and research work and that you will thus treat them. We hope and believe that this law that treats their question and their status and position will have its practical application and that the first results should already be seen in the projection of the budget that we will have to believe within the legal deadline by the end of the year.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56660	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 15th amendment. Here you go, colleague Saviæ.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56661	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment of mine indirectly refers to the establishment of a centre for the record and analysis of the Hague verdicts. I get the impression that the government didn't understand or understand this the best way, because it's about one very important thing. We have heard here from the minister that there are various institutes, such as the Institute of Modern History, modern history, the Institute of Comparative Law. Now, I'd like to hear from Mr. Secretary whether one of those institutes whose activity, let's in some way, be compatible with what the SRS asked for will be somehow obliged to include this thing that we've been looking for in part of our research program and our work. At first glance someone who is not directly interested in these things looks, let's say, as a little something or perhaps someone's whim, but believe this is also an important thing, because the Hague verdicts and everything that's happened in The Hague in the last 20 years and how they burden every Serb, and not just every Serb, but every Serbian citizen, no matter what nationality they belong to. So, this is a kind of Damocle sword over the heads of our citizens, and it really should find a way for this thing to be arranged by studying these things and analysing and of course the experience of the longest Hague prisoner Vojislav Seselj will certainly be valuable in studying these things and in this institute. We see that in this, not directly in this case, but in some similar things there is a shift in this government and the minister. The minister also mentioned today the formation of a museum of genocide at the Fair and some other things, which is certainly commendable, but I say, and this is one very important thing, especially from our latest history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56662	Thank you, fellow Saviæ. The word is made by Minister Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56663	I agree with you that the state can run a policy so that when giving suggestions to the Science Fund, we can recommend that some topics that researchers have such a field that will guide them in that part. You know for a fact that researchers are mostly working autonomously alone in that part, and on the other hand, I have already said today that the Institute of Contemporary History has begun this story. I remain obliged to tell you how long it's been since we've seen each other.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56664	Thank you, Minister. The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Tatjana Macura, Vladimir Djuric, Aleksandar Stevanovic and Nemanja Radojevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Slavica Zivkovic, Dr Predrag Jelenkovic, Dr Milorad Mijatović, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic, Natasa Mihailović Vacic, doc. Dr. Ivan Bauer and Jasmine Karanac. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 30th Amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 33 of the amendment is the afternoon MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Tatjana Macura, Vladimir Djuric, Aleksandar Stevanovic and Nemanja Radojevic together submitted to the 33rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Momcilo Mandic submitted to Article 33 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development, the Information Society submitted to Article 37 of the amendment. At the meeting of the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development, an information society has accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic submitted to Article 61 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) People's MP Marina Ristic submitted to the 62nd amendment. Here's my colleague Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56665	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 62 of this Bill to delete Article 4 because the earlier views of this member already specify the conditions for the selection of directors and this position therefore represent only ballast. Many such examples in this bill are much more important for science than you have left out, and you have left out to solve the problem of the lack of institutional funding for the scientific work of university teachers. This bill is based on good European practice in the sense that there is now a balance between institutional funding and a project competition. Now, the thing is, all researchers need to survive somehow, and that's institutional funding, projecting for the best when their project wins the competition, and then they get the means to develop even more. However, this imbalance problem that existed now has been resolved but only at institutes and not at universities. The state continues to pay teachers in higher education exclusively according to the number of students they work with, and scientific criteria do not play any role there, unfortunately. In practice, it has been like this so far – university professors who have fewer students wrote project proposals and they were adopted as a rule, they were approved, because it was known to be a way to survive for them. This problem is now unrecognizable in this bill of law, and right here, this law is going to trip. The universities are recognised in the first general members of the proposal of this law, but are left out in the funding members. What it's going to look like in practice now, is how the university teachers are now going to pretend to survive is what we're left to see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56666	Thank you, colleague Ristic. The word has Professor Marko Atlagic. Here you go, by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56667	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the honourable representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course I will not support this amendment. I think the amendment's representative interferes with two laws -- the Law on Science and Research and the Second Law on Higher Education. University professors are funded under the Law on Higher Education, but not projects, projects under the Law on Science will be discussed for the second time, but on this amendment I am taking the opportunity to say that funding in science is now being done on two basis. So, budget financing, and on the other hand, project funding. It is very important, to point out, that this budgetary way of funding scientific workers in institutes will have to achieve a certain level of science, to say excellence, will not be paid - let's give money, let's go to the Institute and return without publishing any scientific work. The bottom line is that we're all different from each other in terms of work, order, discipline, results and, in principle, excellence, we've had that up until now, but not so much. So it's on one side. On the other hand, maybe you should, agree with the amendment's proposal, think about it, but that's what the other law says. He's talking about higher education when it comes to university professors. When a colleague has already mentioned university professors, let me say about them, but also about this law. I must point out that the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development has prepared this Law on Science and Research which it aimed at, among other things, stable funding. We said the last time we talked about what stable funding means, how many elements there are, what one means, what the other means, etc. With this in mind, let me say that in the last 20 years, Serbia has never been more serious, more transparent, and above all, a more high-quality debate than the Law on Science and Research, but on this law, thanks to the first order, the Minister, the Secretary of State and the Assistant and the Ministry in general and all those concerning this law, including us, gentlemen and gentlemen, MPs. It is up to us to continue to implement this law. Allow me, speaking of university professors, to point out once again that it is the task of university professors, including researchers of scientific workers at institutes, as well as a patriotic feeling. We say science is universal. Yes, and researchers are universal, but they're both national and we totally agree. I will quote Nikola Tesla, who first visited Belgrade on 02.06.1892, and he said by giving lectures to the higher school students, quote: "I, as you can see and hear, remained a Serb and across the sea, where he is examining, you should be the same as yourself and by your knowledge and work raising the glory of Serbia in the world. "So it is very important that professors are besides that scientific work and national. Scientists aren't all like that. I will once again say that Professor Rade Veljanovski, who walks the streets, has no objection to walking the streets of Belgrade and other cities, in a people known as "jaara", and I will say why "jaara", said in 21.04.2008, "Serbia should recognise KIM and provide a UN chair." Please, is this a violation of the Constitution? What does Criminal Code 305 to 321 say? This man has to go behind the lock. What's our D.A. doing? Why doesn't he go against people like this, like Rade Veljanovski? This moral gromada, Professor. Rade Veljanovski is also his colleague, Sergei Trifunovic, called "pishoi", because he said he would piss on the president's grave, said for him that he cannot be party president, I quote: "The man who can lead some serious political organisation is far away." So, you see, the plagiarism question, he was a mentor to one of the students, a graduate, let's tell the professor at Banja Luka College today, where the plagiarism was proven in college. Not only that, but others too, it's not the only example. This is why academic honesty is extremely important and elements of academic integrity in general. However, I must say, since he was also a mentor here at this doctorate that many suspected, Malten, that he had certain benefits and that's why he is known to the people under this name, called "jajara". Dear People's MPs, I think that most of us really both university professors and most scientific workers meet their academic needs in science in one correct way, that we have extremely good scientific workers, extremely good educators, but we also have one part of people who in some way, let's say, moles and the reputation of an educational worker at university and scientific workers. Speaking of university professors, university professors can do science, but also politics, nothing is disputed. Gentlemen fellow professors, we have political parties or start new ones, please, but dealing as a professor at the university politics is not allowed, I'm sorry. The professor can't come to college and wear the Alliance for Serbia badge. It would be just like me coming to college and wearing a SNS badge and advocating politics here at college, etc. I think we really need to separate some things about politics here. But the rest is from the communist period with the professor, we're teachers, we can do whatever we want, and I don't want politics, I want to look at it from the bottom. That's the easiest. Here you go to the political parties, give the programs. We're going to offer citizens programs, we're going to fight in this high house who's going to come first, who's going to criticise better, who's going to give better suggestions, which political option and people are really going to define themselves for certain programs that are going to be very specific, and then they're going to see which ones are the best. On this occasion, I express my deep condolences to the family of Momir Bulatovic on behalf of all, let me say, the witnesses of The Hague tribunal in the process of trial of the late Milosevic, therefore, his witnesses. The family's condolences, condolences to the Serbs in Montenegro and all respecters of the characters and works of Momir Bulatovic, who was an honorary man, a large Serbian patriot and professor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56668	Thank you, Professor Atlagic. The word has Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56669	Thank you. Article 62 regulates the selection of directors, and Article 62(4) requires that this be deleted, in fact one newspaper is introduced, and that newspaper refers to the Director of the Scientific Research Institute as having competences from the area for which the Institute is established, or for which the Institute is accredited. What does it mean to introduce competence? Competences plus knowledge have a result of efficiency. If we connect Article 62 and Article 63, from which the powers of directors originate, it is more than clear that the Director of the Research Institute must have knowledge, skills, skills and competences in order to effectively manage the Institute of Science and Research. For this reason, attitude 4 should not be deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56670	Thank you. The word is by Natas Spasoje Jovanovic, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56671	Mr. Minister, you will understand that we have approached this bill very seriously, but also not only on this legal side and these legal and technical issues and fundamental concerns, but also on certain practical issues and, in short, to say, some references to practice so far. We all know very well that today in the XXI century we wouldn't have much to have, so even this electronic system that we're working through and you're taking the time you want, as well as many other things that humanity hasn't received so much from science and its creation. What's the problem with our particular society? This law is only the basis and this future director of the Institute, which is spoken of by Article 62, must take into account many aspects first because of the fact that he has to choose fellow scientists from the scientific and research field to carry out certain projects, but also that he also has to bear in mind that older colleagues who have been trained in another system and classical way of higher education can make their immeasurable contribution, because we have come to a situation that the Bologna process itself, which was against which the SRS was originally held, holds many unexplored, born talents. What is said is that God has given them the opportunity to show their talent, but that the Bologna process itself is holding them back. Someone has to start with a college student, in social, natural sciences, to know if he's someone, because there are a lot of university professors here, when in the future, in line with hisafinities, but, above all, talent, of course, and work, he's carrying some kind of scientific research project. That Bologna has created a barrier between lecturers and students. There's no interaction that existed before. There is no possibility that students through these fundamental research and through practical scientific research, from the beginning, from the first year of the study programme, show that some sphere of their interest, because all these lectures are more or less encyclopaedic characters. In my immediate family, I already have students who are finishing. Here, and today, a niece has just graduated from the Bologna process. They themselves say that they didn't have this feeling of maybe real study, like it used to be in the classical system, where it was known exactly that teachers didn't have to survive now and collect Bologna processes and points, and thus value the work of students, to invent objects. I suppose wherever you teach, and teach at some high school, Mr. Marinkovic, it is not in your favor that you are now on some full-time electoral subjects, but that you have your own subject that you will hold and that you continue to show your work in science and research, and that is not the case everywhere. You know, you have, especially through the production of various higher-school institutions, over the past ten years lecturers who, behold, are just going away. They just don't get into the essence of them being beginners of scientific research. Many of them, when they absolutely reach all the conditions to be elected professors, regular university professors, many of them, unfortunately, stop doing that work. That's what we're potentialing for. Mr. Minister, investing in scientific research has increased the productivity of society in many developed countries, you know it very well, four or five times. Here, look at the great and friendly People's Republic of China, their technological processes, their technological development, their investment in science. A few days ago, she was also an ambassador of China and she had with us, a parliamentary group of friendships, a conversation, and she was just saying that that's how they managed to raise the GDP. We can't just say - hey, now we've come to the fact that we're missing certain deficits. You're preparing us and we've heard about how it's going to look about the Duo High School Education Act, but what about this science-research work, which someone's going to stay so close and nobody's going to hear about it or have new Tesla and Pupini born in Serbia in the future and researchers who can make their contribution? I understand that many schools don't have enough resources, but it's not a rare case that multitalented children, so not just for one field of certain science, start from primary and high school, have to look for sponsorships to go to further competitions to get into this process so tomorrow they're the bearers of scientific and research projects. What is very important is, we told you this when it was a principle debate, under this law Serbia is defined strategically in which directions this scientific and research work will develop. Now, let's compete with certain processes, with China, we really can't. I've given an example of this chemical science where there are thousands and more directions. So that's what the directors of these institutes by Article 62 we're talking about need to recognize and look and choose such associates. Not to be some people, so, you know, here, now that he's a few years ahead of retirement, he's a respected professor. Perhaps he has long stopped in modern processes, and you know that a man should perfect himself and learn every day, in such a way that he does science. Let's give those young people a chance, those researchers who really will be the bright spot and the future of Serbia, and that their contribution to Serbian science and in the research area remains as one seal, and hence that the state has both concrete and financial benefits.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56672	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. National MP Miroslava Stankovic Đuričić submitted the amendment to Article 63. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to Article 67 of the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56673	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister of Associates, I have submitted an amendment to Article 67. Proposal for a law on science and research. I requested an amendment to delete point 8 in point 1. This is what I've been looking for because I think this point is completely unnecessary because all the competences of the scientific and teaching council are covered in the first seven points. This, like all other laws, in this area, worked a narrow group of people who only cared about partial interests. The problem is that these people, first of all, prescribe bad solutions from European legislation, which do not meet our circumstances. So we have a constant situation where one bad law is replaced by another, as a rule, by an even worse law. The practice has shown countless times that such solutions are totally inapplicable with us. Unlike other European countries, Serbia is in an accident that one part of it remains under occupation by those who bombed us in 1999. Namely, since I was born in Kosovo and Metohija, where I lived until I was forced to leave my home hearth, I would like to ask the Minister next – how were the scientific and research institutes located in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija considered? What does a competent minister do to preserve, what kind of continuity of what existed in Kosovo and Metohija in this area? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56674	Thank you, colleague Stojanovic. Minister Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56675	Here, just firsthand, I was visiting the University of Pristina yesterday, so, based in Kosovo Mitrovica, and I am very pleased that we have made a good progress here, that a stable teaching, that 75% of students are enrolling from Kosovo and Metohija and that many deans have begun to do their job. There are other "revete tails" there, but now only yesterday I received a report on how many projects are involved, and besides the Institute in Leposavic, there is now a whole new space to open new institutes there. So, as it is done in Central Serbia, we see that it is both in Kosovo and Metohija, especially in the north we are more accessible, so that significant funds are provided in the budget, to bring down that old building "Branko Radcevic" across from the student centre, so that, above all, the Technical Faculty can cross over and elaborate on an idea solution, to automatically get quality space, there is a problem and space. You know that the institutions there were inaccessible, we're now, working on a new building of the department, the Technical Faculty. That's where the Faculty of Economics will get its share and there's some new rush that we can take advantage of now, only now, in my opinion, are those real conditions created. We discussed yesterday in the expanded composition of the recession that, the rectorial council, means that part of the apartments in the "Sun Valley" are intended for the university and science, so that researchers from central Serbia can cooperate more easily, come down, and that some young people, we offer to live down a number of years, to get the right to cross here later on under some better conditions, or to choose their transition later. So it's very important that they have entered major projects. Our goal is to keep the countries with which we can keep our university at the same level as these others, which are, above all, China and Russia. Co-operation with Republika Srpska is very important. We have technical problems there, starting from those student visas to how it treats the international community, but the right to tell you, compared to, here, three years ago I was five or six times down at the university, things are significantly better and I think it's going to go in the right direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56676	Thank you, Minister Sarčević. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic, you have the right to a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56677	No, I'm still using MPs' time and plus a replica, so I have both.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56678	You have 20 seconds and a replica. Here you go. It's four minutes. Yes.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56679	Mr. Minister, we understand right now what needs to be done here, and what is the status under the law of the scientific council, but there remains one misunderstanding, who's going to evaluate the quality of this teaching and scientific research, someone has to measure it? Do you agree with that? Whether it will be the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or your resolution ministry, it remains as something that is not recognised in the law, because it frees us that many institutes will do their job if they evaluate the quality of their work to themselves, and we do not give it as a state, or you as a resolution ministry. Well, you know, you're going to reward these, they're in that field, I'm going back to that story of mine from a little while ago, that the quality of that work is actually crucial. You know, to develop science and the country's higher education system at all is not enough to be mass. When you go back to a time when you, Mr. Minister, studied in that former Yugoslavia, so all over the world to look at, I don't know, maybe there was, most possibly, on the whole planet, 30 to 40 million students, right? Today, I think there are about 200 million students at various universities. Someone's going to say -- oh, man, in Serbia, or some kids can't get a job right after high school, so let's go to one of these high-school schools or some college. It's commendable and it's okay. Of course, we're just condemning every giging degree and someone getting PhDs, plagiarizing them, etc., but as far as this is concerned, I think you should consider some kind of change and supplementation or some way you're going to do it, how you're going to value the work of these institutes. These are institutes for different fields of scientific and research work. This way a few years ago when it happened with the Kragujevac Institute of Cereals, it turns out that almost no one valued their work and so many new species produced and still working, here I said last time, only four years from now will show the results of this work, and yet they managed to contribute economically through their work. Don't think that we're going to demean someone who isn't involved in scientific and research work, where this commercial side may have been late, but at least to these people, so like this Institute of Vineyard in Smederjevska Palanca, for fruit growing in Čačka and here's the mention, give them some more appreciation and opportunity to get them and the necessary resources to move on in that positive direction.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56680	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. The right to replica has Minister Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56681	It is of great interest to us that the institutes are not only in Belgrade, so it is Serbia's pride to have institutes that are from the 19th century in Cačka and Krusevec and other cities. And what's important is the evaluation of research institutes through this institutional funding is regulated by Article 27. That is, of course, the parent scientific committees that are apolitical bodies, people from the profession and they report to the Ministry, so we are the competent ministry for this part of the funding. Of course, projects are otherwise valued through the Science Fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56682	Thank you, Minister. The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56683	Thank you. I'd like to join the discussion. I think it is a very important question that we have raised – how should the proper evaluation of the results be carried out? So are these some criteria that we need to define only ourselves, according to how we feel that something should be valued or that we should be guided by some universal principles and rules? Of course, we should always take care of our specialities, our needs, what our interest is always and when we seem to be talking about the role of the ministry, just the member of the law is scheduled for the Ministry to be involved in defining policies on scientific and research work. As for the results, or evaluation of the scientific weight of a particular piece, I think it's always very important to listen well to what the world's reaction is to anything that can be publicized. And when we talk about the famous international lists of influential magazines, it's not without reason introduced. It should always be kept in mind that the international public, this scientific public, already has a built-up position and a court which represents an appropriate work, which is an appropriate society for such a valuable work. Mrs Jovanovic, I think, mentioned another important thing in the principle debate, and it is directly related to this, is the fact that a number of times repeats or appears, whether a certain number of quotes, as she said then, are irrefutable proof that it is a valuable piece, that it is an uncontestable result that deserves to be particularly valued, respected, that they are honored? That's a pretty interesting question, and I have to admit, I've been thinking about it a little bit. You can quote someone not only because you want to point out how important his accomplishment is and how right he is. It often happens that often those who have made a mistake have been quoted, that they have attracted attention by making a mistake and that all those who show that they have made a mistake are mass quotes. This can be very clearly understood and parallelized between scientific work and any public echo at the expense of any result or move. Here, let's do a parallel with a political scene. Is it because he grabbed hands and feet, for example, Bosko Obradovic became more important in political terms? Well, it never did, it just happened the opposite. You know, ladies and gentlemen of the people, how desperately that man tried to get into the media, to be under the lights of the reflector, to mention it as much as possible, to quote his wise thoughts, and that, among other things, achieved everything exactly the opposite of what he wanted. The more he appeared in the media, the more space he got in those who were in the mood to share his wise thoughts with the rest of the world, the deeper he went down. You see, the result is that I don't have to explain it to myself where Bosko Obradovic is today, or how he is highly quoted in Serbia's political sky. No more MPs, no more, no more moves, no more parties. And they, too, mentioned them today, most faithful to him, are mentioned today as the most disappointed in him personally. So it's a sure proof that being much quoted or much mentioned by others doesn't have to be in itself good, or that it represents any recognition. But transparency is something that we all need to respect, in every sense, and when it comes to scientific work and politics. Because when something that would be said in such simple, comprehensible language is shown in black in white, when revealed, then there is at least room for any misunderstanding, biased interpretation or anything like that. When you show a man what he said a year or two or five ago, it's hard to convince what he meant when he said it. When you show a man what the result was public or what others said about him, then, as they say, they are the cleanst jobs, and when it comes to scientific work, but also when it comes to the work of any kind. Look, the example works, the work of the media, who's running the most from transparency today? Who today runs the most from showing black on white as things stand, what reports were made about their business or what instructions did they give to their subordinates? Well, it's those who have the most interest in hiding something, just those who don't fit a clean bill and who don't respond to transparency, because that's how they do, as they like to say, spin, interpret, spread the truth, and adapt it to what's useful to them. Take an example of N1 television. You, Mr. Risticevic, have been reluctant to say that they are inclined to do things instead of showing nice, clear, black on white, more to give their interpretations and seeing everything. The famous Harding report, which you were talking about, it seems to me that they first denied this television that there was any kind of report at all. The moment information appeared in our public that a report was drawn up in which in no way were positive for them both their professionalism and their objectivity and the way they do their job and how brutal campaigns are trying to politically interfere in Serbia, they first said – no, there is no such report. And then they decided to accept that it exists and admit it, but to hide it like a snake's feet. Today we have various interpretations and stories that come from their editors that what has been published in the press as the content of this report is not true, that what others have said on the subject of this report does not stand, but when you ask them – well, give that report, publish it, show the whole world what is really written in it, and then there is no longer any doubt, then everyone will know what the real truth is. The answer is always the same – and, no, no, we will not publish that report. And why won't they publish it if it's in their favor? That's an interesting question, an interesting question to think about. That's why this transparency is important. If they published it, then it would be very nice to see whether those who rated them were objective, whether they thought they were great professionals, whether they thought they were doing their job with honor and security, or whether the findings were made entirely different in the report. We could see that very simply if they concluded that it was useful for the public to get to know the contents of that report. So far, they're avoiding it in every possible and impossible way. Interesting question is why are they doing this? On the other hand, how hostile they are to any situation in which transparency is manifested, in which it is shown in black on white that people no longer have to believe anyone's interpretations, but to take a good look at what someone said, wrote, as well as how they evaluated. You remember, there is not much of it, just a few days ago, Deputy Mayor Mr. Vesic published one instruction, an instruction that people from that television N1 sent to their subordinate journalists, in which they literally give tasks and demand to be politically accounted for by representatives of the SNS, on a particular day on the subject of Mr. Vesic himself, where it was nicely black to write about how to make them do what, in what way to provoke and what is the sin that is today trying to transfer these people from N1 to the back of Mr. Vesic in what he said – here, these are the people from N1 who no longer have the sense of suffering and asked for this to be learned, that this people in Serbia read and see. And he showed it. How did these N1s react? First, they denied any of it was true again, so they realized it wasn't too convincing, they admitted it was an authentic correspondence, but now, look out for this explanation, there's nothing weird about it, there's nothing controversial about it, and there's nothing instructions about it and there's no campaign and there's nothing unprofessional about it, but they still want to sue, watch out, Mr. Vesic for publishing it. Now we're in an interesting situation. If there's nothing controversial about it, if there's nothing weird about it, then what does he want to sue someone for showing it? Why do they feel terrible when they know something that is neither strange nor controversial in their words? That's why I say, it's an interesting relationship with the need for things to be treated transparently, to show themselves black on white, and to create an opportunity for people to have direct insight, so that they can bring their own judgment. On the one hand, you're hiding something that you claim to benefit from, on the other hand, you're trying to sue someone who shows something that you claim to be the most normal thing in the world. It's a very strange behavior, but we wouldn't understand how strange it is if there wasn't a chance that we were talking about transparency being important and that we didn't have good examples, like this correspondence that came up because some people on N1 television figured out it was over their heads. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we know that those most extreme aspects of personal interest, of the interest that is related to serious money, and the money measured by millions of euros, are directly linked to the conflict with any transparency in handling. Surely neither this television, nor the United group behind it, would be aggressive in their actions, in hiding or attacking those who say that hiding is wrong, that there is no clear interest that is measured by these serious figures. You know, when someone is in media business, while sitting on boards of communications distribution companies, it's quite clear to you that it's big and serious money. When it comes to big and serious money, then there are no obstacles, no moral, no character, to act in a strange way, if necessary, just to make some interest go away. This is why it is important to take care of transparent treatment, to deprive ourselves of any comparative interpretations when it comes to any appropriate court, when it comes to appropriate publications or evaluation of results, but also when it comes to the evaluation of political motives and what encourages people to certain activities. In particular, when it comes to this kind of interest, so we're talking about Dragan Solak, Dragan Gilas and the media, what is this motivation? I think it's quite clear to understand. How long was the total income of once poor Dragan Gilas, measured in just a few years, spent on the most responsible state functions? Hundreds of millions of euros. Is there more interesting motive to act strangely, even if this means being totally illogical and incomprehensible to people? I think it's hard to find such a strong motive when we talk about Dragan Gilas. I hadn't noticed that something else in life bothered him as well as those hundreds of millions of euros.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56684	Thank you. The word is Ljubinko Rakonjac, then Marijan Risticevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56685	Thank you, Your Honor. I just want to look at a few information, i.e. misinformation, which is an explanation of previous amendments to the SRS counterparts, and to say that this could lead to a public confusion. I think that's what they pointed out from the ignorance of the law itself. I wouldn't think they'd say that for some bad reason, as a colleague of Natasha pointed out, that the scientific council would determine and assess the work of the institute. It is clear and definitely said that this is not done by the scientificly larger institutes, but that it is done by competent parent scientific committees, that it is clearly defined in the law itself, sooner and now, so I suggest that this amendment is not accepted. I want to point out another fact. Almost anywhere, as in scientific and research work, there are no clearly defined criteria for calling elections where almost every candidate knows exactly whether they meet the conditions for choice in research or scientific calling. There are clear criteria already at the beginning of the procedure, and it simply triggers or does not launch a calling choice based on the parameters that are clearly defined. That's what I said for the only reason not to create a public confusion, that it's not done by established criteria and that it's done illegally, which is not true. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56686	Thank you. The word is Marijan Rističević, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56687	Can you do it by authority because you're too late for the replica? Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the behavior of N1 television, and especially yesterday, academic Teodorovic is primarily for a colleague of Rancic's. [[President: You have the right to replica.]] Only he can explain how TV N1, "New", "S", 13 sports channels, other fake pirated cross-border televisions that don't pay this country anything, are reportedly cross-border TV and re-emissioning the programme. If they re-emitting it, it's now like on this screen, what they show in Luxembourg, they can do without any changes to show in Serbia. But that's not happening. They produce a programme in Serbia, and that TV told me, wrote by the owner of that television, dared to give me an answer on behalf of REM, and to say that they organise, direct contributions, post ads in Ljubljana. However, the Slovenian regulator says it is not true that they are registered, licensed in Luxembourg. That's why I think my colleague Rancic should explain the behaviour of Yugoslavia's Cosic and others on that TV. To be clear, I think they can broadcast whatever they want, but they have to register in this country because they're broadcasting a program from this country. This is a list of all cross-border channels belonging to the United media, i.e. SBB, Solaku, Gilasu, etc. Look, on three sides, little Luxembourg has television across the border that broadcasts, re-emissions in Serbia. There is no such program in Luxembourg. So, it's about clean work on black, pirate media, and in order not to abuse, I'm going to report on the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56688	Thank you. The word is Natasha Sp. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56689	It's no problem that a colleague of the Rakonyans got involved in this debate, but he just didn't understand. First of all, I didn't say at all in my statement that the scientific council should carry out an evaluation of scientific and research work, but I just pointed out that, which the minister agreed with, that these criteria and evaluations of scientific and research work, and who did that, you said, has been established by this law, must be consistent with all these world trends, because we are not ourselves on the planet, so we need to look back a little bit, and especially since the whole society is in the process of globalisation, and on this aspect. What the SRS is against, and that's our amendment, here's to know a colleague of the Rakonjac, and not to be confused, as he said, in public. We are asking, or co-worker Filip Stojanovic, that point 8 should be deleted in determining the competence of the scientific council that says: other tasks established by the statute of the institute and this law. For what? Because it is unnecessary that something that has established this law is now being further resolved by the statute. The statute can be translated from this law. If you didn't, Mr. Minister, and we always do, I don't know if you noticed in previous laws, there are other laws, we had the Health Act, and now I don't count here many times, it's always a possibility of abuse. I'll give you an example, you may not know, in Kragujevac, at the Medical Faculty, as the dean arrives, the status changes one way or another because one thing is possible under the statute, and another is not possible. Therefore, in order to avoid such abuses, we believe that explicitly the statute should be defined under the law, or their jurisdiction and affairs, and not that they invent hot water, because you know sometimes someone will need something. You've got personal situations on someone else's side. I almost talked to our esteemed co-citizen from Kragujevac, Professor Alexander, who was in the Committee on Accreditation of Higher Educational Institutions, I've known her for a long time, because my first job was just at the Faculty of Engineering in Kragujevac when I was an editor in the 1980s, it might be odd to you, but it was really a magazine that had some scientific value, a magazine called Motors and Motor Vehicles, by the late academic Simic. We talked about what this was like because of everything that was going on in Kragujevac and our rectorate and university with various statutes and boasts of individual leaders. Not just these last affairs, but he's been back 20-30 years. We're talking about our town. In order for that not to be the case, then it takes precision and fine to define what they can and can't, and that only what the letter of the law translates into the statutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56690	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. According to the amendment, Marijan Risticevic reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56691	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, speaking of research, get me that scientific and research group without it being Theodoric, this fake. Take it, don't laugh, you'll find his change on social networks. Imagine a Serbian academic, to cross left and right, find a Serbian academic, imagine any academics of any country saying they should check out from the Telecom subscription, so Serbian companies, check out as a subscriber and move on to the SBB, or United Media, the United Group, owned by David Petreus, former CIA chief and former military commander in Afghanistan. And to say that Cameron Manter was a consultant at the SBB. So these are the ones that brought SBB together with the yellows into a privileged position, which takes over 50% of the media market. And imagine a Serbian academic who receives a salary from the budget, in which Telecom paid 150m euros, which he says - check out of a state-owned company that I also receive as an academic salary and sign up for Solakova, Gilas and Petreus' pockets. Imagine that kind of moral misery, when I have to call an academic like that, and I have to. So I'm not going to use the terms Mr. Atlagic used. And this was too harsh, but I had to. Now look to find me someone and explore how it's possible that ReM, who was probably bought by Solak himself, Jillas and the team, can answer me on behalf of REM interested in the "Adria News", owner of N1 TV and United Group? It's like if the goat asked if she ate cabbage, and she answered, ask someone who controlled the goat if the goat ate cabbage, and he didn't answer you, but the goat answered - no, I didn't eat cabbage. So the United Media, United Group and Adrian News responded that N1 is a television that re-emissions the programme from Ljubljana. They say there's content, contributions, advertising, etc. Let me remind you that they are not registered here because they are allegedly cross-border television. They don't pay anything for broadcasting in this country, Sokoy, they don't pay anybody anything, advertising taxes, nothing, because it's supposed to be cross-border television. They're television on black. They answer me that they make this content in Ljubljana. And then, behold, Jugoslav Ćosic sues Vesic for an e-mail that shows that the content, a manual, is given to his employees, that the content is clearly being made in Belgrade. So, he from the Luxembourg company complains of a media scene in Serbia. Well, I'm sorry, you're allowed to broadcast from Luxembourg, re-emission only a program that's being broadcast at the same time in Luxembourg, without any changes in advertising, content, contributions, etc. That's what the Law on Electronic Media says, says the Cross-border Convention of the Council of Europe, that's what the Advertising Act says, etc. All these laws break and full of pockets of Gilasu, Solaku, who drives a falcon from a hole, golf holes to a hole. And then he sues Vesic and says -- you found out that I'm giving instructions here in Belgrade, which is obvious to be recording a program here, to be broadcast from here, that it's a fake cross-border television, to insert programs, ads, etc. endangers domestic media that are not in the same position because they pay broadcasting fees, these threaten them with commercials, and something else -- these fake cross-border televisions, I had a list here, they get the SBB from the subscription of these citizens and three euros per user, so two million and 700 thousand, and so the money from Serbia is pumped through fake cross-border channels, Gilasov, the Schools, out. And while Telecom makes a profit of 150 million, where we get the salary, they pay in the budget, and Teodorovic, so far SBB, reportedly has losses. And it's bought by the company for 2.6 billion. How does someone in the West give 2.6 billion to some loser in Serbia? Because they know how to pump money, and hundreds of millions of euros are pumped annually. The damages are also caused by citizens, and domestic media are also damaged in this way and in this way. When he sues, he says he's legitimate to sue, but when he sues N1 television, you know what their lawyer writes? He writes that they are not a media service provider, that they are not registered in the APR, that they are not registered in REM as our domestic electronic media and that they cannot be sued. Now, that kind of behavior is for condemnation, and I ask REM not to give me any more answers from United Groups, United Media and Adria News, the owner of these fake cross-border channels, to once start doing their job and order cable operator to shut down all the media that are working on black, whether they belong to the School or to any other, and thus bring all media into an equal position. They have the authority to do that and it's time to start using it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56692	Thank you, colleague Risticevic. He has his word, according to the amendment, Dr Branimir Rancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56693	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, honourable gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since my colleague Risticevic called me to explain the work of N1 and also my colleague Orlic, I am obliged to do so. Namely, N1 television is a television that is used in terrible manipulation. So, one manipulative television based on the fact that is the definition of the famous expiator from England, John Locke, said that there was nothing in his mind that had never been in his senses before. What does that mean? It means that we experience the environment or our objective reality exclusively through our senses, but our senses, you'll have to admit that they're not perfect. For example, how do we see that the two tracks in the distance connect when it's absolutely naturally impossible? Why am I saying this? There's a movie on every psych class. That movie goes like this. There's a lovely dressed lady on the street with a sidewalk, and there's an unremarkable man behind her, a bum. One minute, that bum throws himself at that woman and takes her off the sidewalk, taking her down in the lawn. That's where the movie breaks up. Dear gentlemen, MPs, what will you think of the first part of this film? I know what you're gonna say, that's one bully, that's one alley boy and he needs to be put in jail. But that's not the end, the movie continues. That bum sees the second floor flying a concrete jar directly onto that lady and that hothead's going to kill her. So he throws himself at her and removes her from certain death. What are you going to say now? You'll say he's a lifesaver, not a man with misbehaving. Why did I tell you this review of psychology that was taught in the first year of psychology class? Because "N1", when it starts its "Dnevnik", this is how the news is reported -- today, in 50 cities, there was a protest "One Out of Five Million". And there's the point. There's the first part of that movie. But he won't say the other part – in Gracanica one Protestant, Rada Trajkovic, in Vladic's Han three, in Vranje five, in Nis 25, in Belgrade 35. When you draw the line, there are 225 of them. So, the real news is that there are few Protestants involved in these protests. That's the real news that confirms this psych visit I was talking about. So, I underline, they serve one manipulation and lead Serbian citizens astray. I think I explained it, Mr. Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56694	Thank you, Dr. Rancic. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Risticevic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56695	No matter what I've been called, he can do it by amendment. My dear viewers, first of all, I don't mind that "N1" broadcasts the program. The People's Messenger throws it away. No, they'll watch sooner or later. I don't mind that "N1" television broadcasts whatever it wants, even those untrues, even to manipulate. But for starters, also "New S", which says it only changed its name to "TOP TV", but "TOP TV" was cancelled with permission another 28.11. It has not yet been established where "New S" is registered, whether in Croatia, is it in Luxembourg. So I don't mind. Whatever they say about me, go ahead, broadcast whatever you want, but just to start with all the media being brought into the same position. Imagine now that all our media are playing cross-border media and they're not paying anything to the budget, or taxes, or REM fees, RATL, SOKOJ, etc. What then happened to the media scene, when the right took twenty-something television, was registered in small Luxembourg 23 television stations re-emitting the programme to Serbia. But re-emissioning means this, that the programme that goes to Luxembourg is going to Serbia at the same time. This means that Olja Bećkovic was in Luxembourg, her guests were in Luxembourg, her cameramen were from Luxembourg, she was directed from Luxembourg, TV was licensed in Luxembourg, and everything viewers in Luxembourg watch, watch and watch in Serbia. It's re-emitting. That's what they're right about, no one's slow about it. What I do is a fake, pirated cross-border television that serves to pump out money from subscribers in Serbia, "SBB", and that ads, which are also unauthorized insertion, endanger the work of domestic televisions, which pay for it and live off these ads. So they took practically bread out of their hands. I ask that everyone be in the same position, and therefore I have given it to the President of the Competition Protection Commission in due time, to expect him to protect domestic media from false cross-borders. Imagine this, that we are now establishing fictitious television in Serbia and going to France, that's the closest to Luxembourg, let's rent some space and start broadcasting a program that we don't broadcast in Serbia, and we say - we're a cross-border channel from Serbia and we're broadcasting a program, even against Macron all. Imagine how long it takes, and we broadcast French commercials, we take bread to the French media, etc. Imagine, my dear viewers watching this, how long would it take me in France? How long would it take them to use the Agreement on Cross-border Television, the Council of Europe Convention, etc., to say – you've gone too far? I don't think we'd be waiting 48 hours. They'd all be packed up in some march, in some Bastille, paying gastronomic penalties, who knows if they saw freedom. I'm not asking you to... Another thing, "N1" television, registered in Luxembourg, is complaining of a media scene in Serbia. So stop, you're just re-emitting, you don't have any problem, everything that's in Luxembourg needs to come here. Why do you complain about the conditions when you don't work, when your workforce isn't in Serbia, when you're not broadcasting from Serbia, you're recasting it from Luxembourg? The European Commission, they put it out there. They're going to... (incomprehensible) they lobby and then the European Commission report says that we are jeopardizing, in favour of the state operator, SBB, which is absolutely incorrect, it is quite the other way around. Then they say -- the freedom of the media, the included part that "N1" television has written to be included in the European Commission. They're still proud of it. Wait, are you from Luxembourg, Ljubljana or Serbia? Once you've defined yourself. That's why I asked the psychiatrist to explain it, because they're multiple individuals who work and run that television, and I can't explain it otherwise. So they simply take bread from domestic registered media and we have to get on the road once. He sues Vesic for revealing to him the way he organises the programme in Serbia and claims it is cross-border television. It's just unforgivable. Do they advocate the rule of law, yet they say there is not enough rule of law in Serbia. Well, it's not when they play the law. Let's put an end to this crime once, so that crime doesn't put an end to the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56696	Thank you, colleague Rističević. National MPs Tatjana Macura, Vladimir Djuric, Aleksandar Stevanovic and Nemanja Radojevic submitted together to the 68th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Dubravko Bojic submitted to Article 72 of the amendment. Here you go, Professor. I'll be afraid.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56697	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my amendment refers to Article 72(2) of this bill, where, after the wording of a person is replaced by a point, and the rest of the text is deleted, with the reason that the Personality Data Protection Act must be respected while it is in force regardless of the small indeterminateness, the ambiguity in that law. Why is there no such possibility, for example, in the Single Election List Act? I write science and education in capital letters and put a sign of equality between them and the words of development. That's what our ministry calls it anyway. I have an objection to the unnecessary and excessive use of words of foreign origin, especially in light of the fact that our mother tongue has adequate expressions for them. Here he would limit himself to the agency, wouldn't it be a nicer business, accreditation, a Serbian word of authority, especially a loan permit, a license? I have to point out here that a lot is being heard in the National Assembly, which is from the MPs, which is often heard by some government representatives. I don't know what that means to them, okay, but as a linguist, I know it's not a Serbian term. In a few things we agree, which is that science and research are the way to modern Serbia. Science is not, nor can it be of particular interest, nor good at all, it is both and that is how it should be treated. Every shift in science is a contribution to the scientific heritage of the world. It must be understood that science and education can do more for society than political power, ideological or party attitudes, foreign models and media. We lack cohesion, synchronization and harmony of scientific resources, of course, and some money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56698	Thank you, Professor. I'll be afraid. National MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic submitted to the 80th amendment. Does anyone want a word? National MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 84th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56699	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, in the field of science and research, have accumulated problems for years and there is a great dissatisfaction among scientists. In addition to the minister's explanation and the praise of this bill, we Serbian radicals believe that no significant results will be achieved. Such a proposed legal solution will not prevent the outflow of personnel, rather it will only accelerate and encourage young scientists to leave Serbia. As long as we don't realize that by investing in science multiple returns, there will be no shift and positive results. Science budget in 2018 compared to 2017 has been increased by 15.2% and considerable additional funding is expected in 2019, and that is what is good, because investment in education and science is the best way to invest in the future. So science must have stability in funding, because it's the only way we're not going to be a country of calling and false diplomas, we're going to be a country of knowledge. You have this proposal in the work relating to researchers defined as researchers, then, calling researchers, etc., not to mention, and in Article 44, which we have submitted to the amendment, which refers to the choice, or re-election in scientific calling, we have intervened in the decision-making work of the Commission on the election, or re-election of candidates in calling a senior scientific associate and selecting and calling scientific associate. Namely, you suggested that the commission should make a decision within 90 days of the date of the adoption of the proposal for a decision with documentation. Our intervention is to cut the deadline and make the decision within 60 days, because we believe there is no reasonable reason for this long term for selecting or re-election candidates to call a senior scientific associate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56700	Thank you, colleague Nikolic. The word has Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56701	As far as I'm concerned, I totally agree, for justifiable concern for young people who need to stay in Serbia and what we can do to motivate them in the right way to do just that. Some of the solutions, of course, concern directly this law, and we've talked about them before. So, only the introduction of institutional funding provides this kind of security, a security that was not so far, because you already know that story, not to repeat the details, were directly related to all the incomes, i.e. the young people, for the projects they were engaged in. The moment the project is completed, and logically, it ends at some point and a new cycle begins, the question arises. If you continue funding by the existing model, that means you compete, you get, or you don't get, and we all know that much was simply shared because the alternative was to stay out of income completely and how much further it makes sense, not to repeat the whole story. In this way, this existence will not be questionable. This is why it is supported by all people who are directly engaged in this sector. So, people who do science, who do research, they said -- this is really all the honor on the proposal, what we needed years ago. This kind of security comes from one side, on the other, of course, an opportunity to have motivation, to compete, to try to be better, because you know that it will be properly evaluated. When we have really real competence when competing for projects, then you're really trying to be better, because, you know, yeah, that allows you to have extra income, past these basics, which, I say, ensures that you have more. And this is more of course to be used with the right meaning and to be used in the right way, for those who really have good proposals, who really have solutions that are worth it and who will be useful not only to them personally and the institutions in which they are engaged, but also to the society in which they belong, so that Serbia finally pays what Serbia can use in a good and just way. The other thing is, of course, what those people should expect, young people, when it comes to some common standard. And that's what we were talking about. The average salary is growing, and this is one of the things that the government has recently recorded for two years of work, which represents a good continuity compared to the governments that Alexander Vukic himself led for a reason. Over 460 euros in average salary, when compared to the average salary it was during the former regime, that is a significant difference. We compare, therefore, 460 growing, which, I am confident, will very quickly reach those famous 500 euros often spoken of in public, with an amount of about 330, 340 euros. We talked about, on average, the increase in pensions of over 12%, that we, as things stand this year, have a good space to go to new increases, including, of course, salary increases, including, of course, salary hikes in real estates such as education or health care. These are therefore the right answers to the needs of young people and their expectations of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. life in Serbia, and to allow them to rightly resolve their housing issue, of course. It is very important, of course, and what are the overall opportunities in the country. So, a country that deals with the development of its economy, a country that takes care that peace and stability are a prerequisite for every economic progress, that's a country that knows what it's doing, that's a country that provides itself with the necessary base that it can move forward. Peace and stability, as a prerequisite for any progress in the economy, of course the economy in which it is working and which is being developed in the right way. The opposite of behavior, everything that's the opposite of maintaining peace and stability, is just driving young people out of this country, it's just that it's not going to be successful, it's actually being sabotaged or mined, if that's what you want, everything that serious people want to do and what they can provide. When I say that, I mean Bosko Obradovic again. We were talking about this man. That man, he says, they, therefore, so-called. The opposition, I'm all the former regime, of course, that convincingly aggressive minority says, they are non-violently seeking to normalize the media, which would mean that they are depicted by what they think everyone in this country should do, that they are normalized, therefore, by their punitive criteria, by the choices and by the Assembly, and if the authorities don't want to meet them, if someone won't listen to and comply with their demands, what does Obradovic say? He'll judge the street. He says – elections will be on the street and there will be no more choices, either like this or like this. Now, you see, this is a direct attack on peace, on stability. When someone comes in like this and sends messages like this, and of course they're sent because we know it's about regular classic thugs, people who paraded wearing hangers or breaking in with motor saws in public service, and we don't expect much better from people. It should be known that these people sabotage their own country, affect every investor who wants to come here, because when he looks at what things are mentioned in the public narrative, they'll say, I don't know what can be expected in that country, I'd better not go there. And such people, in the extreme instance, drive young people out of this country. This is why it is important, on the one hand, to safeguard peace, to preserve stability, to build an economy, and on the other hand, to protect the people in this country, and especially young people, from such personalities that cannot bring good to themselves or others, possibly only to their own bosses, specifically Bosko Obradović Gilas Dragan. But what is the happiness of people who have been able to further insert into their otherwise crowded pockets, if the price for this is the destruction and destruction of an entire country? In Serbia, it was from that particular Gilas and Obradovic, unfortunately we had opportunities to see what he looked like. What they say -- either, it didn't happen again.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56702	Thank you, Dr. Orlic. The 91st amendment, with a correction, was filed by MP Zoran Despotovic. Here you go, colleague Despotovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56703	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, I have tabled an amendment to Article 91 of this Bill, where we have asked for the erasure of the words "repeated", with the reason that the retrieving of existing knowledge and re-election of pleonasm. With this amendment, we only implemented a language correction. The proposed law regulates a single activity which is of general interest, and therefore of particular importance. The legislator regulates the system of science and research, which is partly true because part of it is in the second law of the same ministry. This law and a set of educational laws should be treated as an integrated continent where education and the science of the work that must necessarily contribute to the overall development of the Republic of Serbia. This proposed law cannot bear an epithet of "systemically", since there is a Law on Higher Educational Institutions that carry out scientific and research activities, as shown by Articles 35, 55 and 65 of this proposal. The main objective for the adoption of this law, according to the explanation, is to change the funding model, which would mean that its essence is to finance scientific and research work. Previously, science is supported by strong ideological motives. In natural sciences, we were heroes and equalized with the world, and in social sciences, it was all a matter of individuality. In times past, there have been fewer what is present today in science, that there are many titles behind which there is no knowledge and so on. scientists who made very strange trips to college diplomas and Ph.D.s. So, there's a lot of calling today, and there's little knowledge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56704	Thank you, colleague Despotovic. National MP Bozidar Delic submitted the amendment to Article 103. National MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 107th amendment. The word has the People's MP Ruzica Nikolic. Here you go, Mrs. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56705	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are also on Article 7. Proposal for a law to submit an amendment. This article refers to funding science and research. In previous discussions, we have also pointed out the need to invest in this area and that a serious budget for science and research is needed. In the previous period, young scientists in Serbia produced envious results despite a very poor education system and very little money with a modest budget, they produced envious results. We wonder what the results would have been if the science budget had been higher. Therefore, the financing issue must be approached in a more serious way and not only financing but also all other issues in this area and to prevent young and talented people from Serbia from leaving and to spot and remove all problems from this area in time. We're amending to Article 107. The bill asked for point 6 of the first sentence to be deleted. It specifically refers to funding and scientific research activities from other sources, and you are here in the first five points clearly indicating what other sources are from which to provide funding for this activity, so we believe that point 6 is absolutely unnecessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56706	Thank you, colleague Nikolic. Member of the 108th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word. Here you go, Mr. Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56707	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 108 of the proposed law, where the SRS proposes to delete, in relation to Article 108 paragraph 1 point 6 because there is no precise means for other costs of scientific and research work. In our opinion, these funds should be specified, as indicated, so that we can know what these are all other funds for which money should be allocated from the budget. What I would like to emphasise when it comes to higher education, we in Serbia have inflation of fake PhDs, fake managers. Here in this House are the people who have graduated from law schools, economic colleges, medical schools and others, so colleges that have completed and acquired scientific and research skills and university education in state schools. Imagine now what can happen in Serbia, and this will also be recorded in court practice. You have an accreditation of law school, the university graduates in eight months, and in one semester they pass five, six exams, in two, three years, which they would say, they didn't even attend class, and the question of who teaches them is that they get degrees from college educated people, and that's how the college ends up buying a degree in meadows and tents, that's tomorrow going to be a judge. You know what kind of judge that will be? A judge who won't know how to write a verdict won't know to consider any law, because he won't learn it. There is no one there to learn, and then in our country we have inflation of these and colleges and these experts and these, let's say, scientists who in this Serbia can only harm and violate, above all, the unity of a system of higher and higher education.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56708	Thank you, colleague Jojic. The word has Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go, by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56709	Always an interesting topic, the question of the quality of relevant diplomas, i.e. calling. It's been a long time since this debate is being held in our country, and I don't think it's any less accurate claim that's been made somewhere at the very beginning, that there's no appropriate guarantee, in terms of an institution that issues a certain degree, or if you want any kind of certificate, which can guarantee 100% that the one to whom it's been issued is a top expert. So, as much as someone wants to argue, and I think anyone who does it automatically, the proper degree they issue, let's say the private university, is equally wrong who claims that if it's a state, it has to be about dry quality. There is much to the institutions themselves, but most of them are still to the people themselves, which are students. Whoever wants to work seriously, who wants to work hard, who wants to perfect himself and gain knowledge, he can get a good chance to take advantage of any place in which that opportunity appears to him and can be a good professional in the business he has decided to deal with tomorrow. I've met people who come from the world, those who have studied at private universities and who have studied at state universities, and I know that I've met, both top experts and amongst themselves, and people who, perhaps, can't boast of some too much knowledge, no matter where they were. So, first of all, responsibility is here on the individual. What can the system do for itself? He can create that framework that's fair to everyone, so if you have an institution that's got this famous accreditation or if we call it another word that's more appropriate to the spirit of our language, I don't know, give the proposal freely, we've heard some today, so there's confirmation from the state that he can and should work, then it's incorrect after that to ask whether it's a belief that this institution issued is appropriate or not, incorrectly to all those students who believed that accreditation, wrote down studies to tell them afterwards - it might not have been so good and so valuable. On the other hand, to give the appropriate frame to whoever from tomorrow should be an employer, to choose who suits him best. Who will they choose? Well, of course, the one who's the best. When we talk about the market, and we often talk about the market in this room, what concerns the labour market should always be focused so that the employer can choose the one most valuable, the most capable and the biggest expert or specific job or the particular employer is responsible in the best way, that is the essence of logic. It's not the one who has to decide tomorrow whether the worker is responsible or not, to take a man whose expertise is controversial, regardless of who has betrayed him, signed or what kind of title he's given in that diploma, he's going to choose the one who brings profits to the company, the one who's useful to the system that hires him. These are things you should always keep in mind. How do we protect ourselves, so that, for example, we provide adequate information to those who have to choose on the labour market whether they will deal with people who have shown quality during school or not? We, I think, just like the parliamentary majority during the last two calls on several occasions gave the right answer. One of the good answers is the digital repository. So, to remind ourselves, we introduced it as an obligation for everyone to keep in one place the texts of the final papers of famous dissertations and then to be able to access these texts and that everyone can see what is in them, what are the quality and how original they are. In that sense, of course, we do not need to worry about anything or hide from anything. We once again introduced this mechanism that once again achieves that transparency that I talked about a little while ago. I'll remind you one more time, I said which one's running away from her. Only those who obviously have something to hide run away from. So does N1 have a problem with publishing Harding's report? There is. They say they don't think there's any need to publish it, that nothing would be good or useful. Why are they not doing so and why do they take such a stand? Well, once again, they run away from a transparent approach because something that would show them obviously doesn't work out. On the other hand, what are the people who have not done anything wrong, they have not broken any law, except that they have publicly and transparently demonstrated the abuse of functions, that the private interest is being driven into the political arena just because some millions have been played in the head, and that people who are employed on Gilasov and Šolak's televisions are forced to attack as wasps the deputy mayor or mayor of Belgrade, our city councilors, but also at the republical level, that every day, every possible and impossible means of attacking Alexander Vukic, members of his family, people who are SNS officials, ministers in the government, MPs? Well, that's amazing. When you say, "Here, you see," there's an instruction that says what to do and how to do, they say it's all normal, but it's not normal enough not to try to scare people who have the courage and the strength to show it. So, obviously, the problem of respecting transparency as needs is those who hide something fierce and who, I would say, are seriously burning their consciences. When it comes to these issues or some other, of course, we don't, and we don't have the right to know every data, every value recorded in this country, and because of that, we're proud to talk about the results in the economy, building infrastructure, the fact that we've built 150 kilometers of highways for the past two years. It suits us to know every result precisely so that people don't have to rely on anyone's interpretations and that they don't trust anyone on the word if it's good or bad, but to hear for themselves how it is, so that they can conclude whether it's good or bad and that they can compare it, that they can compare with building the infrastructure we had at the time of Gilas, Jeremic, Tadic and others. Of course, I don't mean their internal company infrastructure and how many companies have blossomed, but what they've provided the people, what they've left to the state, to see a mile away or a mile of sewerage a mile away, if that's what you want. So, let's see the street or bus on the bus. At the level of the city of Belgrade, you know, there is no style or technique in the area of propaganda that they have not tried to apply just to attack either Alexander Vukic or SNS or city authority. There's no lie they invented they didn't. I can't remember anything if they didn't try. What's the story? To never be able to put the result next to the results that we show and say – here, citizens, look at your own eyes and compare yourself in your own taste and your mind, to show, besides Resavska, which we have finished today, a similar result, there is no, that, in addition to the renovations that we perform in Calemegdan on those valuable parts of that cultural complex show – here, we once managed to reconstruct the staircase in the way the SNS and the city government did today or better than they did. Here, look, compare and lock yourself up. They have nothing to show, nothing to attach. How did the city get renovated? Of course, we are not counting on that famous reconstruction of Bulevara, which cost six million euros more of the city of Belgrade than it should have, in order for those six million, of course, to end up with someone in a pocket that needed it. Let's see if the Republic Square is settled, because they've been yelling so much that it's not doing well, that it's not supposed to be done, that it's wrong. Remember what they said? I can't remember all the nonsense they've managed to get along. They say, they take away our memories, they take away our memories, it won't be that square of our youth anymore, so that today people from their environment say – this really looks good, and this is really a square. This is the square. It wasn't a square, and now it looks like it, and then they go off, they come down on their shoulders, which are like Bastacians, Jovanovics, all the people who, like crazy bedsiders, were rolling around that construction site, breaking down his fences, breaking in, preventing works, pulling signals and cables, harassing those workers. Remember that? All they did was prevent these works, and today they say, no, we don't mind, we should do it. Then what have you been doing all this time? Why were you harassing all those people? What have you been harassing the people of Belgrade and trying to stop the work, to stop them, if it's all right now? They say, no, it was for other reasons, for another purpose, we can't explain it now, but we won. The important thing is that they won in their heads. Can they show as a result that should compare with any of ours that they did at SC level "25. May"? How much was the dubiosis they put the center in? The press says that it goes up to about 200 million dinars, which is on liquid debt, which is on what they owe the property that isn't theirs and which they don't have, which is on the backlog of the people who are employed there. Well, is this the result you now need to put next to the financial health records of the city of Belgrade and tell people – here, compare what's better. Well, it won't be. They know what's better and they see very well what's better. Since we have discussed what needs to be done today and what Serbia needs to finance today, these topics, ladies and gentlemen, and we are talking about precisely why Serbia can deal with these topics today, which Serbia can finance today. Serbia, which was ahead of bankruptcy, could not have been a Serbia that was only a step away from the ambience, which was recognised by both Dragan Gilas and the team around it, so they forgot they had confessed. At that time, it must have been easier for them to say something like that because they count it no longer their responsibility. She took over SNS and Alexander Vukic taking care of the country, so now it doesn't matter what they confess. But what happens? Serbia does not fail, although they were hoping for it, but Serbia is raised from its knees, the head rises above the water, so Serbia today can finance those corridors that end, which for decades have not been the infrastructure that the city of Belgrade, but also many other cities have not had for decades, and the tunnels, and bridges, but also railways and stadiums, and that it is talking about this kind of projects and this kind of budget that applies incoherently to the financing of science, so to say, we managed to raise by 36% compared to what it was and to say is not enough and not the end, we are not satisfied, we want to do more, to raise more. Serbia can do so today because it is run by and run by serious and responsible people, people who are fighting for the result and people who are domestically treating something that is common, who care that there is always a plus in the register, and now there are more than 20 billion, who are trying to be that plus eventually bigger and who are counting on how this plus is going to be used in the best way. Well, we have investments in infrastructure bigger than we've ever had. Is that the actual state of affairs that's been established through the budget? That's the budget we were talking about here. You bet it is. Well, we have raises and wages and pensions and that's another fact. That's not just what MPs or people who do politics say, that's what people who do statistics say, who do it professionally. That's what people in the world say. So, we can love, we don't love the MMR, the World Bank, the European Commission, etc., but these are people who don't deal with these things just by saying something because it's clear to them that their seriousness, their credibility, other measures based on what estimates they're making, so when they say there's Serbia progressed, you see on our ranking lists, she jumped one year at five places, the others in ten, but she jumps every one, then that means something, and when they look at investors, they're going to nod and say, it's not a bad country, I could go to the capital to go there, so let's see, she's a good people, maybe we can do something together, it'll be good for me and them. We need it more, the more we deal with it, the more we encourage that plus, and that growth we raise up, and then it's the right feedback. You're building a system that pushes itself to be even better and even more successful. You're doing the opposite of what these insidious ones would do, so to speak, the Obradovics who threaten street violence, who threaten revolutions, these midwives with their long pipes, who, as children, cry when the police ask them what you said about long pipes, so they shake their heads and explain -- no, no, I didn't say, so in a second they stop being heroes, even though they like to be heroes and talk about how, well, they're the conscience of the nations and they're not afraid of anything. As they see a policeman, as they see a face that's unbalanced, they change the story immediately and say, "No, no, I've never said anything like that." So, all the contrary to the fact that these great heroes who exist only in the virtual world on their Twitters talk, say, and work not to endanger security, not to endanger other people, not to endanger their property, not to physically, not to attack peace and stability, but to be patiently in the normal atmosphere and in a normal healthy society working and creating together. That's more than enough for Serbia to figure out when some time goes by and looks back, it's a good trip, it's a good share, and we're proud of what we've done to the common forces. It's a good approach if you want in any segment, even when it comes to development regarding science or research or modernisation in any sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56710	Thank you. On Article 114, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Verica Radet. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56711	On Article 14 or Article 14, where we have intervened with the amendment, it seems to me even if the amendment is not accepted that this is something we have agreed with the minister, and this is about funding institutions of national importance, where SANU and Matica Srpska are foreseen. Our proposal is that there be also a Serbian literary cooperative. We understood what the minister said during today's debate, and we hope that this will be corrected in the future, and especially what the financing of the Serbian literary cooperative will certainly be envisaged in the budget for the coming year. In this reasoning of this law, you said, among other things, that the key objective that is to achieve the legislation is to create a scientific and research sector which, with its excellence, can be an equal partner within the European Research Area, which, by its relevance, again has a positive impact on Serbia's economic growth and contribution to cultural and social progress. It is not disputed, of course, that scientific and research activity and science can contribute to both cultural and social progress at all. These innovations, Europeans, this excellence, relevance, etc. It really doesn't mean anything. This can be used, but well, you've taken it no matter what they tell you that there's nothing from the European Union, but you're pushing your own, so your own. Although you've done something in this law, the whole law is going through it, and we've intervened here and amendedly. You keep talking about the national, regional and international impact of science, etc. And you're trying, I already said that at the beginning, somehow you're regionally trying to get it through, I guess to get people into the ears so you can re-create the former Yugoslavia, which is very bad. They say that people in science are not satisfied with this bill, or the law when it is adopted within a few days, because first academic citizens, especially those with the highest academic titles, do not guarantee employment or advancement in the service. This applies first of all to young doctors, and that's not good. In fact, when it comes to this bill, everything about education can not be bypassed in general, and this famous Bologna Declaration that they do not apply in Bologna either, but here we have accepted everything that is not good, all for the sake of this European path from which we will eventually be dumped, but we have a lot of problems in education, or maybe it is not a good expression, it is not a problem in education but in the quasi education. The fact that we have a college in every little place, it's not good. Not because it's not good to develop small places, we've talked about it more than once that you're breaking up in some of the municipalities of high school, courts, etc. But you're opening up some unit of one of those private universities, some kind of college. That's where you get your degree. It's not where you go to learn, it's not where you take it, it's where you go to get your degree. I don't know if there's anyone in Serbia who doesn't know. You, Minister, are the man who came from private practice. You have your private school, but I have no intention of praising you in any way, but your school has never been bad. It should be a recipe and that you apply it to other schools and primary and secondary and preschool and eventually higher education institutions, because what happens to us at these private universities is a cartoon study. I don't want to offend anyone, or anyone who has such a degree, or professors who work there, but they have so many demoted themselves. It can't be blamed for someone who didn't really go to school, so she gave him a chance to go to one, they say, the white house with the stairs in front of the entrance to the place or the one upstairs, it's that college. It's literally how people go and that's how they look for colleges. They go there, good day-to-day, how much that paper is called a diploma, so much, here, on, give a degree, thank you, goodbye. I'm someone who's graduated. Now that you're looking at it like that, can it be the man who went to get his degree? It can't, people have ambition, so let's be able to boast that he has a degree, but we've allowed as a system, as a state, to completely degrade higher education, and that's the most urgent thing you need to do to correct how you know and know. In fact, it's not a problem, it's also known how, it just needs to be seriously approached. You must also face all the suspected diplomats and you must, in time, have five or six years, four or five bars, Zorana Mihajlovic said at a conference, at the time that she was the most fake diplomat, Tome Nikolic. Then the press asked her on the subject and then she said she was talking, you weren't in the government at the time, that there was talk in the government that a commission would be formed that would examine all suspected diplomas. Doubtful in the sense of when he shows up in public, and then, when he would be on one of those, so-called. "faculty," came in, so only one diploma faked when it was discovered, then the chain would easily rise, so we'd see all those fake diplomas. On the other hand, it's offensive for people, for young people who learn, who go to college regularly, who go to school, who take colloquiums, who get good grades, it's offensive to be honest to have someone who doesn't have one there, barely has a primary school education, essentially. Technically, he can have what he buys. So you also have to face it and really if this commission isn't formed, do it and really get away from what's public knowledge. Here, Mr. Atlagic was talking about this Veljanovski. It's not just us talking about him when he wasn't politically relevant. There was a candidate here, I don't remember, so we showed that fake diploma of his here. In the meantime, as some kind of science doctor, he was mentoring some lady from Banja Luka, I'm not going to speak her name on purpose, not to go to Republika Srpska with this problem. Then when it was found that this lady was plagiarizing her doctorate and he was her mentor, then that Veljanovski said that the mentor was responsible if he encouraged the candidate to plagiarize and prescribe. He says - I didn't read it very carefully, I didn't notice it, but it happens. So, the consequence of his fake doctorate is that he's creating new fake doctors. We have an unresolved problem, or unresolved question, awaiting the obvious obsolescence of the Index affair. These people who participated in the Index affair have progressed in college, advanced in politics, advanced with various functions, and I don't know how much longer there is, about, maybe a year or two, this process will become obsolete and no one will dare to joke about that joke that's been happening for several years if you're in Kragujevac, you've got 15 minutes, don't go to coffee, run to law school, get your degree. Caricated, but unfortunately, in a good part true, and again at the expense of those who studied neatly at the University of Law School in Kragujevac. As long as we don't approach solving problems like this, we can hardly talk about science, because in all of this, we come to the point that these fake doctors and those who really get this fake doctoral degree, as soon as they can get to that degree, they're going to say, what would the people say, both lactating or politically most often, get through to some institute and come to some television or that there's something they're talking about as a science doctor at some institute, to fascinate aunts, aunts and others who watch it on television, and in fact, they're demoralizing those people who would be seriously involved in science. You, then, when you're raising funds from the budget, and it's good, I see that you're planning for next year, or that it's your project, we'll see how much more money there will be than it was this year, and that's good. There can't be a lot of money for science. It's been a long time since it's invested in science, and now it needs to be invested. But how do we determine to invest in real projects? Because these projects, quasi projects, run by these quasi doctors of science, and then they get money from the budget because they're close to the authorities, because they're close to someone in the ruling parties, and then those people who would really do science and who would really contribute to both development and national science and at the level of international science, who could show something, can't come to terms. People would do it at their own expense, but they can't, it's all very expensive. You know, you have examples, let's say, I know the medical faculty myself, young people who, while they're finishing medical school, or while they're studying medical school, some of these young people, and there aren't a few of them, are also doing science, doing some scientific papers that have been observed, and these works, their professor, the mentor says -- it can be presented at a hospital in Leiden, can be presented somewhere in Serbia at some symposium, etc., but that young man doesn't have the money to go to Lyden, he doesn't have the money to stay in the Netherlands, and there's no one to pay him. There are some local self-governments, for example, which would be a good solution at least as a recommendation, some local self-governments recognize such good children in their environments and finance such travels, not travel, in fact, they're scientific symposiums. It is understandable that from the level of the Republic and not all such activity can be paid, but if we include local self-government, then it will be much easier. I told you in the principle debate about some positive examples of our children, you know, of course, from the mathematical high school, from the music school, which from biochemistry, which produced excellent results, brought so many gold diplomas, silver, bronze, brought to Serbia, about them no one, no one seems to care. There their teachers, if they're enthusiasts, then they help them, work with them. Many teachers and teachers dissatisfied with the conditions in which they work, dissatisfaction with their salaries and the situation in their collective, have neither the will nor the desire to devote themselves to these talented students or students. These are all the problems that I'm sure you're nodding your head for, you know, and I'm sure all the people who have good intentions when we talk about this topic and I can't have your problems solved by one law, but I can also do law, I can do education, and I can do it in a way that I don't have anything against athletes and sports medals. But we, for example, in Belgrade, in the City Assembly, from that terrace as we welcome medal athletes, etc., and some athletes represent us in the world, it's all nice. But why, for example. He never organizes, so when those 12 medals came back, those children, why did he not arrange for them from that balcony of the City Assembly to be welcomed, to inform people, to bring schools organized, to have these children experience their success and thus to be stimulating to them, not only to those who would come to watch them, especially those who would come to applaud them, to greet them, and to whom teachers from various schools would bring them? So it doesn't take a lot of money for something like this. It should insist on public service, which we pay from both budgets and so on, insisting on scientific and educational shows, that time in the main journal is devoted to such talented young people, that they get a boost not only to learn, not only to achieve successes, but to convince them to stay in their own country, not to be educated, parents are mostly schooled, some of which may help the state through credits, etc., and then when they end up going somewhere where they will never be recognized again, or appreciated as much as they would be here if there were such an climate in our country. So the appeal to you, Minister, to take advantage of your experience, your personal experience and, of course, the knowledge of your colleagues from the Ministry, to do something, here, I have now, as much time as it has allowed me, thrown a few ideas, there are some more of them, but let us begin, let us receive them, and excellent students, and the geniuses of the young, to receive them in the congregation, to talk to them, that somehow, simply, let us give them both meaning and their parents. Often my parents are disappointed, and they say, "Behold, that which my child has brought a gold medal, no one will hear, no help, no one will pay the way, etc." Simply, we must also help to truly deal with these young people, and in order for them to practice science in the near future. They're already, anyone who brings some kind of medal from an international contest, he's already in science. It's an international competition, it's dozens or hundreds of schools from all over the world or just from Europe, whatever. And if someone gets that kind of success there, he's already in science, he just needs to be pushed. I repeat, this law may be a start, some basis, but this law needs to be drawn out, not a good expression, but in any case, this should be the basis for some new and laws and sublegal acts and, above all, to show your will in the Ministry that by affirming young talented people you contribute to science in Serbia in general. People who are involved in science, who are already in some more serious years, are involved in science and using sticks and ropes. And they're separated and families, etc., they're here, so they're kind of out of line, let's say they're struggling and they're dealing with science and they're showing results. We can't expect that from a young man. We need to give a young man a boost, we need to give hope, we need to convince him that there is room for him in this country of Serbia and, of course, we need to help financially. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56712	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56713	Well, it's a lot of, really, issues, but I'll try to be as concise as you are. When the state started starting schools, after the uprising, and all that, not to return to the Middle Ages, it intended to make good institutions, to be quality. We little older generations were fortunate to experience it mostly, regardless of the socio-political system. It's been a lot of bad years and some events, and then it's starting to collapse, and that collapse takes longer, you know. For as long as this team that's with me is doing this and running it, we've brought 23 laws here by now and we'll bring a few more. I think it was the first basis for the full legislation to be settled first. Many bad habits, many unmotivated people, many unselective people to choose this profession, even the lack of people in the profession we're talking about, even the initial education of teachers has not been a serious topic for decades. What needs to be done systematically is all levels of education. So it went equally to reform in pre-school, primary, secondary, higher, and science, technological development. So, according to the possibilities we had and the time behind us, there are many things. They of course last in some cycles and cannot expect greater visual reforms, less than five years, and that is the minimum time to pass the cycle from first to fourth, from fifth to eighth, or from first to fourth middle. What was most valuable was science. What was most valuable were the parts of higher education, even though we now bid, said MP Orlic – not in all the state's happiest situation. My smallness expects the judicial authorities to solve the so-called. the ‘index’ affair. I do what I can, or in some way a live dam, do that people from that affair can't get some positions. How? I don't need to talk right now. On the other hand, believe me, I have that in mind. I personally devoted my entire life experience to that quality of education, and when I came to this position, I said that our first and most important word was quality. In order to achieve this, we had to make a new national framework of plans and programmes, and it was butchered by some bad habit prescribed from some European models, through some projects, playrooms and earlier calls from Tinda Kovac and everyone else. Of course we stopped it. We even had to lose half a year to figure it out. To stop drumming, to start to carry out teaching on a new learning agenda, through learning concepts and applying acquired knowledge, so-called "Students". Eastern learning. In order for that to happen, teacher training is intense. So, 22,000 people per year are now being trained through the Training and Training Institute only for new competences in teaching and learning. So, for new curriculas and programs. Plus digital ones. So then we had to do some things very quickly to be visible and I think that's where we went with the IT. That we introduced immediately in the first year, necessarily in the fifth and sixth, so this year in the seventh, the next eighths end the whole cycle. The years are reform programmes second and sixth, second high school. The reform of high school was not done, not only before the Shuvar, but also what was before the Shuvar, so now it is necessary to do harm. Our people are willing to manipulate every new situation in various ways. The founders of various institutions, including myself, working first for others, and then in the region itself, I intended only the quality and what was most internationally valued, so that someone else could say – yes, here is something that was externally assessed, which I failed to share. We're working on a system that will have an external and small and large graduation very quickly, in 2021. There will be no embellishment of reality, there will be no giving of grades, because simply the teacher predicts success, and he must, along with the candidate, achieve it. Only then does he get that lead call. In education, there will be law here in the Assembly, there will be four titles, four advances in the profession, and the unions already know that. Why not just the one who takes the kids to the competition, achieves top-notch results, doesn't get faster and bigger calls, but people who work in much better conditions and for the same money? So, they work in the bilingual departments, they work with gifted children. This year we introduced chemistry, biology, for a dozen study programs, not just medicine, pharmacies, veterinary, technology, molecular biology, and it turned out that children were doing great. We've also come to 58 departments this year. In addition to the mathematical departments, not only the Mathematical High School in Belgrade, but throughout Serbia, where there are, where conditions are met, too, philology, physics and we have reached a quota of approximately 4.5% of children who are gifted for one of these areas. The world average is that it's about 5%. In order to do this quality, the conditions and criteria set are very difficult and at least we know that we do not stop and there are no shortcuts. The resistance, of course, is and will be. I can't handle these things with inspections, because there's very few of them, but they're changing paradigms. So, the director's training changes, his work license, his departmentalization, his professionalism. What has already gone beyond is an external assessment of the facility, so we already know Serbia's blood count, because that first cycle has passed. In order for this to happen in a better direction, so there goes that motivation of teachers. We will convey these experiences precisely in this model to remove the right over the government's assessment, and in the way it has done so far, because it gives a huge space for manipulation. So every little graduation, whether to break into the press, whether to break into the school's transcription, whether to break into the test... Everyone wants some of the tricks to make reality better and get to the goal as soon as possible, and then if you have thousands of them over the link wanting to enroll, then we devalue everything we've done, then the best ones don't have a good chance. I can tell you that by July 15th, it will be the last session of the National Council for Higher Education. We will complete the full reorganisation of higher education and expect excellent effects and integration with the economy, integration and university, which did not exist, great savings and the possibility that people who work there will be more objectively rewarded, not individuals, as you have cases in practice, against whom I personally fought a personal battle and have largely succeeded so far. At the university, the biggest problem is because people, not only in Serbia, it's a world topic, they've experienced autonomy in one creative way – when it suits me, autonomy and when I share money, autonomy is when I get caught by the State Auditor, autonomy is to name it worse, but for those I've had better. So, a lot of people have allowed themselves here and today they allow it. So we're fighting a trench battle here, step by step, but I think it's all going to happen through the last two projects, and these are quality indicators that one day, meaning, by the new year, will be networked through a unique information system in education, where you'll have for every student, student that unique educational number, where his learning results, his tests, his efficiency, stands where he's employed, what his salary is. All these indicators will be known and this will be one way to check the quality of the work of higher education institutions. In the law that we adopted here in 2017, we introduced a Council of Employers. So, those private colleges, and even state some, who don't want to work quality, who think their function is to exist, just to win the market, not to give quality, and those candidates who enroll just for easier study won't be able to, because the employer won't recognize it on the list that we're going to publish publicly. With a number of other quality indicators, the story is slowly estranged, i.e. every thought is covered by the question of science funding. Today you will hear people say that this law is bad too, and these same people in previous periods have allowed new project cycles not to be realized, that researchers, who have no conditions to go on project, first of all, social sciences, were somehow forced to be pushed into the project to have funding, and yet they can have it safely, and they can go on projects. If more money is put into higher education and science, the state will have large benefits, except for very good profits and we have already moved away from the "Study in Serbia" project. If we could have had tens of thousands of foreign students in the 1970s and 1980s, first of all, at Belgrade University, and now other universities are high enough, certain study programs, then I think we can do it again. Not that I'm wrong, that's what Hungarians say, many others who aren't at our level, and I think that country has to invest, and I'm going to insist on it, both for new dorms, and for accommodation, and for the accreditation of the programme. There are a lot of countries that once got a good education here and want their children to repeat it in both Serbian and English. It brings in new, fresh money that was made honestly at the university, and with projects that people can do, with companies that can be established under the Law on High and A number of other things. We actually created this legal environment. It's important that good colleges, good schools, as you mentioned mathematical high school, such as Professor. Popovica, Faculty of Engineering has now shown the peak interest of students for enrolment. So, young people, families expect it. There's a lot going on, but it's done very frontally in all the fields, and I think in a few years, in 2021, it's going to be very fragile, when our students are going to do this Pisa test, which is working the whole world, and we're going to see where we are compared to Singapore, Finland and everything else. I think we're going to make significant progress. Real reforms and results are seen in 2024. It's one cycle that's standard in the world and where we can already be satisfied with some parts of that system. The number of researchers and scientists is very satisfying, the desire for many serious states with us to have bilateral agreements about it really gives us good opportunities. What's important in the Science Fund, what you said, today I've repeated several times, there won't be any project installation, they won't be able to get through a link to anyone, because it's completely independent and publicly done. Just as we have achieved with the Innovation Fund, which is very advanced and which accomplishes its social task. So that's something we've made possible. What you just said, the mobility of young people. Since we became full members of the "Development Plus" project, we now have the mobility of both founders and high school students and have become a project country. So we've achieved a series of things that give us an environment to expect a much better and better education, and I've been trying all along to make sure that people who do it make a great contribution and that they're well rewarded for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56714	Right on the line, my colleague, Veronica Radeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56715	It's not a classic replica. What the minister said mostly, there's nothing to object to, only that we all hope it happens together, but now you're in a state, you're aware of that, you mentioned the directors, the department, etc. The situation with the directors is a disaster throughout Serbia. School directors are courting local powers, because they can probably keep them at the director's post and they don't care about schools or children. But here's what you said, I guess that'll work out. I dropped three things when I was talking. First of all, Minister, you mentioned Petnica. I was talking about her in the principle debate. Don't fund the Petnica until you get a good look at the state of things there. Don't finance Tinde Kovac, you mentioned her, so I remembered to say Igor Majic and your predecessor Srdjan Verbić. First, examine what happened to those money that, when Djelic was a minister, was a large loan given to Petniki, where that money went. So, before you start funding the Petnica again, clean up everything that's being cleaned up from the Petnica, give her that reputation that belongs to her. Now there's no such thing as a reputation. That's the first thing. The second thing, the state must never allow again, and now this situation is that, in the National Employment Service, science doctors should not be reported, nor street cleaners, but simply, what we cannot allow. You know, if someone's a science doctor and he's been unemployed for two years at the National Employment Service, there's no more doctors, no more science. Who knows what he does, a taxi driver, or something like that, goes the other way and he's gone for nothing, and he's been trying for nothing, and his parents invested in him, possibly a state, and so on. It just can't happen. We talked today about the need to set up and this institute where we insist on analysis of the Hague verdicts and there are still some possibilities where it should be paid to the state to invest, to form some new institute with the tasked topic and to employ people with the highest academic titles. One more sentence or two. According to the information I received from the World Roma Organization, you have a request for the establishment of an international Institute for Romanology Studies. If you've looked at that request or if you haven't, look at it. I, as far as I have information, have the facility and the particular documentation they are asked for, received the support of Zorana Mihajlovic, who is headed by the decade of Roma in this period. So if there really are conditions for such a thing it should certainly be done. We're talking about the inclusion of Roma, if they want to open a university like this, then they really need to be allowed to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56716	Right to the replica of Minister Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56717	I wouldn't call this a replica, I would call it a conversation. I didn't get that, but as soon as we're done here, I'll ask around and see. Various associations work well with us. I think for these three years every year we've significantly raised the number of Roma children in primary schools. This is where statistics are kept, especially women's children, because they come out of the system earlier. Now we're going to have one whole procedure when we're doing a law on the obligation of high school to introduce short cycles to the biggest part because of Roma children and dual models, because it's going to give good effects and I think that's where we're going to do the most. I mentioned here almost, the other day, when we talked, when I was in Bujanovac that I resented both the OSCE and the European Commission and the Albanian community that in Bujanovac where 26% of Roma live, only one Roma woman was a student in eight years, and the great tears of crocodile for everyone else, you know. To me, as soon as it comes, I'll be very happy to do it. I've had as a professor many times Roma children whom, as I say, I have treated as my own and I have a very large pitet towards that nation that has always been with us. What's said about directors, it's a relic, and it was and it's got everything. We have external grades from the school of directors, and that's a good indicator of where things stand. Remember the system law on education, the basis of the system, that roof law, when we introduced the category of ministers to decide. It was on me trees and rocks, especially from the left block here. I said if there's no other solution someone has to be responsible, I'll put myself in. But no one could point a finger, perhaps in two three cases where we interfered against the will of the collectives, against the will of the school boards, where we knew in the beginning that some things were not good. It's a fight, but you have executives who are from a period of Democrats, Socialists, advances, and I don't look at their party book. They're legitimateized by good work, good external evaluation and license. The work license will be the key point. It's gonna be hard to get, and it's gonna be easy to get out. When we started licensing we took the directors who were rated by the highest marks of their facility and I can tell you that a third didn't pass the license in the first booze. So it's not easy at all, it's not a way of training, it's not a test. It gives us the right that, in due course, when we do so, we can at the moment be a minister or someone else, to come and say in the Assembly of Amendments and additions to the Law on the Education System, delete – choose a minister, put on – let whoever chooses. There must be a control factor at this stage. I'm not saying we get everything, but if we keep 80, 90% in this first booze, I think it's good.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56718	Thank you. By amendment, MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56719	Thank you. He was right about the minister during his first presentation. There are really more topics here that have been run and they're interesting in order. Although, on the basis of Mrs Radete's conclusion, it could be said that she agrees with the bill's proposal, at the very beginning it seems to me that a note has been made, the people of the profession say the law is not good, the people of the profession say that the law does not propose a good solution, does not guarantee to young people that they will be able to perfect themselves uninterruptedly, have a job, etc. The truth is, we talked about it in principle, but maybe we forgot, to remind ourselves, we had a public debate here, and at that debate, everyone, absolutely everyone who was there as a professional in any way, from which you want institutions, everyone said a good bill, they all said the good solutions that are proposed this way. Everyone said that – it provides certainty, security to those young people who perfect themselves and through projects where they need to doctor or experience scientific calling, but also in any other sense. Among other things, there were representatives of SANU, the National Council for Scientific and Technological Development, representatives of the Community of Serbia, the Academy of Engineering, representatives of different and state and private universities, and state and private institutes. There were also representatives of the Chamber of Commerce and everyone, absolutely everyone issued the grades I'm telling you right now. If necessary, we can remind them by name and last name, each of them. So the entire expert community is undivided. These are good suggestions, this is a good bill. This is what they say -- a turning point compared to the treatment of science and research in Serbia. A turning point in a positive direction. I also thought during the principle debate I read what they say and what words they choose and those who are not only critical, but aggressively, hostilely and towards SNS, Alexander Vukic, in any sense and on any subject. You and those people say, well, you can say that this is a good bill. Then you realize what the proposal is and how many people there are if there really is something real that has to challenge, or how long it's gone. The issue of co-operation on the international agenda is important. We have been providing data here, and how good results our young scientists achieve and when it comes to European projects, the famous Horizon 2020, but also when it comes to scientific co-operation with other countries of the world or other parts of the planet, if you prefer. We were talking, say, about joint projects that we have in the realm of science and research with China. So it's not about one thing, it's about a whole series of projects. It's not about one, it's about a series of attractive areas. These are things that show directly useful results for the citizens of our country, let's say for those young scientific workers who gain valuable experience, and the opportunity to have significant funds that they can count on during their scientific and research work. When we talk about relations in the region. I think Mrs. Radeta mentioned the term for creating the former Yugoslavia. That's not it. It's all not just that. When we talk about creating close ties in the region, we talk primarily about economic co-operation, and that is quite clear. It is no secret, it is something that I think very much of we are saying, that there is a proposal that comes from official Serbia, everyone who belongs to this region, geographically you can observe that membership, first of all, is not controversial, that it is thinking wisely and that it occurs together when it comes to the economic representation of us in others and in the European market, but also in other markets. There is a constant open call, therefore, to all the surrounding countries to form a common regional market with a clear calculation, a clear explanation, a logic why it is good. Because in this way we would be able to, by performing more attractively, attract twice as much investment as we do now, twice as much investment for a complete region as we do now, when all individual countries die out. Today, Serbia, we also said, is good enough to say, better than anyone in the area, when it comes to this region and foreign investment. But why don't we do something good that directly allows us to be twice as successful as we already are, even twice as successful. Isn't that clear, everyone's acceptable logic. And it will be good for others who can and want to participate. Unfortunately, I have to say many won't. And because they won't exactly justify these words, we're not about to form any communities like some new Yugoslavia. You can tell them as much as you want, that's all. These people are unable to step forward bravely and think something more open than I just said. So to ask what they could do to help economies, their own economies of their own, because we don't have people who can share that kind of vision like Alexander Vukic, who are unable to have that kind of courage that Alexander Vukic has proposed, formulated this idea, and that kind of thing, I have to say the responsibilities to do something even though it requires a certain energy to explain to their citizens, many will have to, because they've tried so-called. You want to explain to them how good it is not to co-operate so much with Serbia, how it is good to keep a side of someone who is not Serbia, but to invest that energy to explain to citizens why it is necessary to work with Serbia and everyone else, and then they will see the immediate benefit. Not everyone's ready to take that job, not everyone's ready to take that kind of effort. It's a shame they didn't. They miss a lot, and we'll definitely keep doing what's in our interest. But if we could do a double-successful result, whenever there's a chance we're going to fight for it, we're going to suggest it. No one should be intimidated by any new artificial states, anything like that. It knows what Serbia is today and knows what is important for Serbia today, it is certainly its interest. Double investment here with us, twice as many factories for our people here. That's our clear interest. We don't have to explain that to anyone. The relationship with the EU is also important because of these things we talked about, and it concerns co-operation in the domain of science, but not just science. Well, here's what they mentioned earlier was a matter of proper protection, or adequate improvement in the quality of life for the Roma community. This European money, we started this morning with this story, hiding behind projects that allow for example. Like today in New Market, social housing. We can open it, we can secure it and find a solution and a number of exactly Roma families. That, for example, was the case today in Novi Pazar. But not just for those reasons. It's good to cooperate when it's useful again. And when it comes to the region and when it comes to the continent. Did we say that from IPA funds, these are therefore European projects, their money, more than 30m euros provided only for science in our country. Did we say that immediately after the opening of the new negotiating chapter, which happened, it was chapter 9, just the other day an agreement on a new arrangement for IPA funds worth a fantastic hundred and seventy million euros. We did. Is the reality that there's also the opening of Chapter 9 and the arrangement deal and now we can count on money that's really great. Now I'm going to give you some information on what Serbia is getting. It receives 62m euros in ecology, and 51m out of it for a wastewater treatment plant in Nis. This is the money that we will have, thanks to the fact that we have taken care of the need to work well with the EU, and applied for funds in the right way, we have been trained to make these projects right. Fortym euros from the same source of innovation and entrepreneurship based on it. So this directly benefits those young people of ours we're talking about here. Someone has this impulse, this spark inside of them, wants to try it as an entrepreneur, wants to try to form their own company, to offer something attractive market, we need to make sure that those people help when they're at the very beginning. What we're doing today is just investing in science and technology parks, in those centres that form the start-up of the company, the business incubators that need to support it with their infrastructure. We allow these people to have not only where to start work, but to be relieved of the duties that are directed towards the state. We allow them to get the money they need to help them get on their feet. We deprive them of various payments during the first years after they started their new businesses. So, during those years when their risk of business. We are doing everything we can to help them financially and materially, to encourage them and, among other things, we can count on European money for these things. Forty million euros is all just not little. Eleven million, energy efficiency that includes infrastructure such as, listen to these facilities, student polyclinic, stationary, city library, ambulance. Directly useful to our citizens, no one can say anything but that. Twenty million for housing care of refugees and displaced. I don't need to explain why this is important and how much it's worth. Fifteen million to support infrastructure and businesses. Twenty million for censuses, agriculture, to provide quality data that will use us again to enable us to understand our needs and to know where we need to invest first, where we can count on something. That is one, I would say, a responsible, rational approach when it comes to co-operation, when it comes to planning and the future and choosing partners. Everything we do, if it brings benefits to our people, and these things are unequivocally beneficial to our people, then that's good. It's not a matter of political taste, but a question of the ability to think properly and that the result is, not for itself personally, not for your pocket or your popularity, but for people who have given you the confidence to care for their needs, to think about them. Graduates, of course, most of the subject, and as things stand, whatever we explain in this room or outside of it, there will always be a theme in this society. It shouldn't surprise anyone, but it's a miracle that we're going back to some subjects over and over again. You mentioned the diploma of Tomislav Nikolic. You forgot to say that the DS inspection at the time was still the ruling party, went to investigate whether the diploma was appropriate, whether it was real. What'd they figure out? That there's nothing controversial about it. If, at that time, those who projected him and us as their most angry enemies, otherwise just those who had politically stepped on their tail and replaced them, researched and concluded that they couldn't find anything controversial, that's some kind of answer to the questions that you're asking here all the time. But it was said that at least once a case was found that someone had done something unfair on the subject of a degree. If that case had been discovered at least once, then it would have relieved the whole society of this topic and everything would be right today and we wouldn't be dealing with this. It happened, at least once, that something like that got its epilogue, very formal, official and undeniable, so I didn't notice it had any larger echoes, nor when it came to the responsibility of the people who are asking these questions today. It happened, for example, that Miroljub Ignjatovic, is that what is called a man, a founding court, faked a diploma. It's been established and the verdict has been reached and I think the sentence has been fully implemented in the meantime. This man was an example based on which everything in this country was forever resolved on this matter and no story ever appeared again. That's not exactly how it happened. On the contrary, he seems to have made political progress. It was in the Serbian Radical Party that he became a high-ranking official, after the court found that he had faked his diploma. Well, is that the right solution now? I wouldn't say it had anything to do with the essence of things, but it was just supposed to serve as a convenient story for a little more political assault on the account of one of us or someone you don't like, it doesn't matter. But you see how fast things show up in the opposite direction. That's why you need to be careful. That there is an interest, almost everything, even in people, and even in topics relating to education, science, it is not controversial. You'll always find people who support each other because they're bound by some interest. Maybe the most dangerous thing is when that interest is somewhere in the domain of a merger between big business, so big money and politics, that policy that imposes itself as life and death for millions of people, which decides on their fates, which decides on their future, which also decides on those children who are supposed to represent a perspective in this country. These kinds of clan relationships we've really had in the past. And when you look at what the rest of the former regime looks like, you realize that they're still somewhere in that kind of relationship today, and they've never been able to move beyond those frames, at least try to be better, at least rise a little above it. In the meantime, everything has been executed, there is no longer any attempt to agree on any policy, any ideology or representation of any value. Meanwhile, it all came down to it, that naked interest and that damn money. But you can find that, too, more or less pronounced, but the same nature, in different other areas or on different other issues, and in other actors. Here, look, the example works, the famous NGO sector. These days in the National Assembly, we have had the opportunity to deal with the issue of a proposal to elect a new Commissioner for Public Information, and we expect that the topic will soon be discussed here and here, in plenary. But she was dealt with by the committee in charge just a day or two ago. Yesterday it was, so it's not two, it's a day. What are the reactions of these NGOs, all virtual experts themselves again, those people who seem to be living on Twitter and like their best friends, virtual journalists, all day long admire themselves and do nothing else. They say people -- they had their candidate, they had their proposal. And some are, they have the right to cheer for whoever they want. And some of them also stood behind the political representatives of the former regime, to sign it formally as a proposal to deliver to the Committee. It's all right. There's nothing to argue about. But when the process is over and the Committee is declared to be a formal candidate who will be discussed at the plenary session, then we come up with something that is complete insolence. And this is an example of this narrow interest, this sectation and the clubbing of those who seem to have imagined that they have been sent from God to arrange what they will and how it should be on this planet and that there is no one else besides them and no one else to ask for anything, not even the National Assembly. Or, perhaps, from their point of view, at least the National Assembly and at least the People's MPs. These organisations sent a joint statement today. The Belgrade Centre for Security Policy, CRTA, you know them, are experts on experts, they deal with everything and everything, including the National Assembly and us here and they know how elections should be conducted and what is wrong with election laws, they just can't explain that they don't do it on behalf of the former regime and Gilas and Šolak and Jeremic and Obradovic himself, they can't explain it to anyone, until their director, therefore, the director of the CRTA with previously-numbered tycoons and fascists stands side by side and breaks the fences in front of the presidency. So they're fellow Members and that's that most naked possible common interest. But they are also an NGO, so let me mention them, along with the Committee of Human Rights, Juk, the Partners for Democratic Change, the Sher Foundation, the Transparency of Serbia, the Open Society Foundation, sign a statement saying it is out of the question, that it is absolutely unacceptable for the Committee to make a statement, beware of this, by voting on whom it considers to be a suitable candidate for the new trustee. In fact, the sentence in their statement reads: "The choice was made exclusively by voting, so the main criteria for deciding was who proposed it, not its expertise." What does this mean? People's MPs on the Committee cannot decide by voting. Imagine that wit. We probably can't decide by voting here, either, at the assembly session. That's unacceptable. It's not democratic, I don't know what it is, but probably from the perspective of your gentlemen we should be deciding by asking them what they think, which no one has ever voted for, or, as things stand, and that instead of democratically declaring the National Assembly and elected representatives of the people, we will still ask them what we are going to do and how we are going to do in this country. And it's probably how different faces should be named by different people to choose for important state affairs and functions. That's probably the way it should be for the MPs to choose. And they may not be necessary anymore, but simply ask them, to turn them on the phone and ask them -- what kind of policy do you think Serbia should run, what to invest money in, what to pay, what do we need, who are our friends? And, after all, how much do you want, distinguished gentlemen from what kind of CRTA, Yucoma and others, to serve you today? It's probably the essence of things. That kind of relationship I don't think we can ever exterminate, nor should we expect it. It's a question of human nature. And no matter how much we judge it, such people will be. But we should point out that, and we should always clearly demasque every time something this scandalous and unacceptable in the state tries. And this is such an abnormal pressure, I don't know what to call it. It's not up to the National Assembly to decide on those questions that directly concern the work of our work, amazing. Well, they know better, you big Twitter experts. And who gets the funding from the budget? There you are, Mrs. Radeta, absolutely right, that's the question we need to deal with. When it comes to local budgets, I have recently seen that the terrible money, the creepy big money, is allocated from the budget of the town of Sapca to the very media that belongs to that conglomerate that is under the paw of School and Gilas, who is ready to order whatever you want, whatever you imagine, to lie, write, install, plant, just to make it sound politically useful or to support in some way their brutal propaganda, and to be, of course, at the expense of Alexander Vukic, his family, the people of the SNS. I didn't see, I think, in these news reports, and there were so many, no media that he applied for the funds and got them there, I'm talking about the town of Sapac, and if it wasn't the strictest possible on the party line of Zelenovic, you know that man who likes to walk around Europe and talk all the worst about his country, that he doesn't want to lie there and the most insidious of all, so on the line of his party, his friends, I guess now new-old friends from the United Democratic Party, as they call their home "yellow company" and Dragan Gilas and Vuk Jeremic and Bosko Obradovic. This same Zelenovic who does not hesitate to, watch out for this, writes letters to Alexander Vukic these days, imagine that he explains to Vukic that he should properly carry out flood protection in some place, that he is asking questions and dispersing his mind. The same Zelenovic, representative of those whose 2014 vaccine, the town of Sabac, their town, was in terrible danger right after the flood. In 2014, the city asked whether it would have remained a stone on the stone if it hadn't been for Alexander Vukic's reactions personally, those and such. Had it not been for the reaction that was being rerouted at the same time, it sent a significant number of people and machinery and the Serbian Army to protect Sabac. To him, for what he did then, they thank and return by trying to reason on the subject today, we are great experts for everything, and for how to protect ourselves from the floods. Or at the Old Town level. Perhaps this is a more famous, more picturesque example, of how much money that Belgrade, the city's municipalities ended up in the accounts of those companies serving to rent that physical security serviced by Bastic, a hooligan, a great builder in downtown Belgrade. How many tens of millions, I think, of the dinars, and from year to year, went to pay for some kind of company with some vague description of the services provided by the city's municipality, and everyone knows that they employ those persons of such interesting, large constitutions that follow Bastic every time he tries to challenge an incident by blocking construction sites, to explain how he is afterwards fighting against the destruction of his own memories of Belgrade? That's why no new boulevard should be worked, which is why no square in this city should be done, which is why we should not invest in infrastructure and try to make anything better. We don't need any fountains, of course, that's why we don't need gondola or cable, which is why we don't need a new square, a new bus station or railway station, because we don't need anything new, because we care about our memories and memories of childhood. Then, of course, he'll say after all – no, I didn't mean it like that, but there will be millions of missing in the Old Town register. Those things I agree with you, you've made an excellent observation, it should be taken care of. Has the courtship of local powers, as it has been said, been contained in the decision to, say, be supported by those who are in Belgrade, those who do not wish well for their city, such as Bastac, political co-operation, that they are being held in power and that they are being given support by voting for them in the local assembly, I do not know, but when it comes to the issue of employment in Serbia and the question of who is at the bureau today, I do not know if any of those present in the hall can remember someone who has been more successful in reducing unemployment than Alexander Vukic and SNS, that he has made a greater shift than what we have done by operating his policy, so from 25% to 26% of the unemployed down to about 11%? Have we talked to anyone before the SNS about the need to make this unemployment even more dramatic, to be below 10%, to compete with the countries of the environment, and we are already better than many, when it comes to that parameter? I don't remember. That's the kind of result no one has. It's on the opposite side. So, these Gilasi with their new, old Bastacians, Zelenovics and others, they managed to increase unemployment. Remember that data? The order of size is 600,000 souls. So many people were out of work at a time when representatives of the former regime, and today, thugs who are bravely dealing with traffic signs, were able to show what they can, what and how much they can. Compared to the hundreds of thousands of new employees we provide, which are the results of our policy, the comparison will never be possible. But with all this effort, at the very end, you're right about one thing, without any backup. The future should be built and thought of in advance. When it comes to talented children, young people who win top medals in international competitions, but not only international, so, young people who show that they can really be the driving wheels of our society, there should be support, there should be help, there should be encouragement, but not only in words and not only applause when they return from the competition and when we welcome them on some balcony, but also with concrete means. That's why I have to point out - that's what we do today and we do it in a number of ways. In the first place, let's say, scholarships. There are different programs that seem quite successful today. Scholarships for good students, outstandingly good students and outstandingly good students, so-called regular scholarships, if you wish, exist and are greater than at the time of any previous government. But there are also those who are specifically endowed with talent. The Youth Fund also increases the level of funds that are intended for the very team, the best and most successful young people. Not only do we take care of them while they're at school, but we take care of them and give them a chance to work tomorrow. Did Alexander Vukic or not personally congratulate those young people who finished their education and are about to start a career? They started it recently as health workers, as doctors, sisters, and they were the best during their schooling. To them today, Serbia is able to provide them with opportunities today. Let's not talk about what conditions we provide for them today and what clinical centres, what hospitals, what modern equipment they can do today, and what they can do today, and what they can learn and perfect and what they can compete with the rest of the world, and they never could before. Such, and yes, whenever additional space is created in the budget, and it is created as long as it is done seriously, responsibly and conducts domestically, but every time such additional space is created to make such thoughts and to provide additional funds for them, including through salary increases. That is why it is said -- surely, in months before us, additional salary increases for people in Serbia, and for these successful young people, those who show that even as young people can be, should be, and be the most. I think, ladies and gentlemen, it's an appropriate approach to take serious care of the future of the country and when it really is invested and planned. Because of this approach we have, I appreciate, we can also boast about the results that count all these great rewards, the advances on international lists, the fact that we have great money today, and that we can compete for it when it comes to the world level, the fact that, by all indicators, the state is making progress, and that citizens, most importantly, see, feel, make sure every time they go a new route or every time they get a message that they've been paid or retired, and remember that it was all completely different and what it looked like at a time when robbers like Gilas, Šolak, Jeremic and Obradovic, skin scratched on their back. You can see that, and you can't help but understand that. That is why it is our obligation to insist on showing the result, just so that you can see it properly and understand it well. In this way we give ourselves tasks and compete with what we have achieved and in this way we really become what we need to be, what we deserve to be, what Alexander Vukic has personally defined and formulated as a society that wins and in which everyone and in the region if you want to be in Europe, but also in the world should get used to it, to get used to Serbia today winning and will continue to win in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56720	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56721	Honorable Vice President of the National Assembly, just a few sentences, since there was a misunderstanding about this Law. It is this law that guarantees young people profits. When the questions were mentioned, they were earned but based on results. Was that so far? It's not exactly the best, because we haven't applied certain criteria, whether it's science or education. In particular, it gives the possibility of progress. It is not true that it does not give opportunity, your law gives the possibility to advance through certain... If you want, through project funding, just for excellence, but we're not all equally advanced, there's a problem. In the present system, especially in the era of socialism, and we have kept that manner that we are all equally valuable and all equally advanced. That's not who we are. It was about the responsibility of the executives, especially the dean, when it comes to high school institutions, we really don't have the best solution. I am in favour, and the minister, as I have seen, is close to the claim that the manager, in this case the dean and the head of the school, is the most responsible for the state of the school, i.e. the institution, and that he must be controlled in some way. We are in a phase of the development of a society where executives must be controlled in educational institutions and scientific institutions. In the transitional period we let it go under control and we put it into a situation of higher education, primary school, and even if you want institutes where the executives were masters, under quotes I speak, life and death, let's say, workers, not just workers, teachers, and when it comes to school, but also students, etc. In this transitional period, we have lost the foundation of the system. Did we get them back? We're returning something. With the arrival of Minister Sarčević, we formed the system. To put it that way, we have formally established a reform. Are we a deep reform? We're not pedagogical. Are we at the beginning? We did. It's the greatest achievement of this minister who's ever done here today. Dear People's MPs, I'll try to point out what the problem was. By moving to a multiparty system, we have expelled education from schools, therefore, educationally educated institutions, colleges, if you will and from the parent home, from society in general. We need to return the pedagogation not only in schools, but in society as a whole. We can, here's an example, try to secure not one school, but five militiamen, and we haven't solved anything with it. By bringing a militia officer to school, we recognize the impotence of education institutions because we have expelled education. Why? He who was the author of globalisation said exactly – banish, cartoon, raise from educational schools and from student homes, and introduce the psychology of society. What does that mean? Psychologists fake, journalists fake, psychologists etc. Where did we come from? We've laid down in law that every school must have a psychologist or a educator. School psychologists aren't for every student, they're for the special one. One psychologist is enough at five to 10,000 schools. That's the point, but every school should have a pedagogue. In that sense, we've been wandering for 15 years and we've been talking about violence at school all the time. No, gentlemen, we mustn't talk about it, but education in school, education in society, education in a dorm school, because rudeness leads to violence. That's the point. The replacement of thesis, let's say, American pedagogy has imposed this on us in post-socialist countries, and it will take us more time to get rid of this way of education. Can you imagine the moral education we've forced out? Well, it's from Plato to today no one's done it. Moral education. Here, one of the assignments, we didn't have a relationship with social property. You know what we are now. We don't have that assignment at all. Who told us not to change the contents? Someone didn't want it, targeted. Instead of putting a task in relation to social property, a relationship with property, whether it's private, whether it's state-owned. As a consequence, here's the case. In Belgrade, I have calculated somewhere that we need a billion euros right now to remove only graphite from buildings. It's not just an economic problem. It's a pedagogical problem, if you will, a personality problem, etc. Go to Romania and see if there's any graphite. That's the problem. We must return pedagogation to school, i.e. pedagogation of the entire society, and introduce a pedagogy of peace in the Balkans after these wars. That's the point. Now, let me say a few sentences about the election calls. There were words here that there was no criteria. The choices in calling professors, professors, regular professors or institutes must be strictly set up. They've been pretty much set up by now, but no one's been holding on to certain criteria. Usually the deans no one controlled were abused with certain groups. There is no autonomy of the university when it comes to finance, gentlemen Members of Parliament. That's where the state has to mix, she's giving money, she's got to control the money. What else does he have to do? Law control, law enforcement. There's a problem. We haven't had that in 50 years. What about one college that didn't want to invite three representatives or four college councils elected by the Government of the Republic? He says we didn't invite them for years because they did what they wanted in colleges. That's why, Mr. Minister, I stand for as much control over the council of universities and college as possible, because we are not yet a mature democratic society that we can let go of such autonomy. No one's against university autonomy, but we're up for law enforcement. If someone's chosen against the law for a doctor, an emergency professor or a regular, then we have an educational inspection. There's a problem. We were in one phase for one minister while he was Minister of Education had a situation that the minister himself promoted regular and extraordinary professors, so the second came and returned to scientific and teaching councils. Today, these regular professors, without a choice in calling regular professors, decided on PhDs in colleges. Even presidents are major doctoral students. They're such absurds. We have a strange condition. What matters to this law is that he's extraordinary. Mr. Minister, I want the public to hear, you've formed a system of education and education after many years. He was a mess. So we made him up and you went into deep pedagogical reform. I'm sure we're taking good steps. You mentioned high school. Sixty years, no one touched the high school reform. Now she's having a slow time, but surely. I don't want to talk about elementary school or high school. Reforms have always existed from the old century to today, but we are reforming in line with society's reforms in general. That's the point. We can't throw away the contents of all possible previous regimes, and we did that, and then we introduced the relationship to the property as a moral education. The country's relation to the country, we've thrown it out. There is no MP here, Zarko Korač, who mocked patriotism in this high house. He made fun of his call, and he retired the doctor. Gentlemen, I am now taking this opportunity, gentlemen of the Faculty of Philosophy in Belgrade, said I was one of the lawmakers. I'm nothing less than you, gentlemen of the People's Parliament. I voted. If I had been one of the creators, 95% of the professors would not have sat at the Faculty of Philosophy in Belgrade, but some other people who would have been a single term, regular professors and professors. It's competition. That's why they're walking down the street now. They don't want to do politics, they don't want to go to parties, they want to go down the street. They think it's a communist system. Well, it's not, there you go. I think Professor Micunovic was right when he criticized the DS to return to this tall home. He says it's nowhere in the world. You're going for a walk, instead of leading the dialogue in the Assembly. Can you imagine what the Gicky Mafia did? He's asking to disengage himself from the party professor. Micunović. They're hohstuplers, man. I've been trying to get a few problems to see deep reforms. I'm glad, Mr. Minister, that we have circled this reform, especially dual education. It's gone a long way and it's the core of high school education. We'll raise you back to school. I know your opinion, right. I know exactly what he is. That's perfect. You're one of the educators who knows pedagoggy very well and we'll go and get our education back to school. It's not going easy, but we'll go. It would be good for a teacher, from a university professor for each of his teaching subjects to create a plan for the educational performance of the school, a connection with the local community, a society in general. Without that, we won't be able to get far. He says, "Why do I need a raise in metal?" Well, there's a need. The master will show me how to delay the tools at the end of my working hours, not throw it away, etc. We have a million examples. I'm sorry, I took a little bit more time, but to say that the law is extraordinary, that law enforcement will arrive very soon, because the Ministry is already working on sublegal acts and it's up to us researchers whether we want to work or not, and the criteria will force us to do so. Don't be surprised someone's going to be out of a job and the doctors are going to be out of work. It's not easy for regular professors to arrive. So the doctor's title means nothing. It's like when I go to a movie, I get a ticket, I watch a movie, it's gonna be a result. I'm not watching a movie, I'm doing other things, there's no results. So is our doctorates. So, no work, there's nothing. Someone mentioned regular professors before retirement. Gentlemen, in the world, regular teachers have to investigate and work the most, just before they retire. Most of all, that's right, not to take the title of a regular professor, hands in my pockets, and I don't have to do anything. Most of all, they have to investigate, especially for younger generations, to show how it's done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56722	The word has a minister, Mr. Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56723	I think a sentence that will complete what you professors have been saying is important, which is that teams are already working on a new strategy of education and science at all levels and where this educational part of it is the most important part of it, which is outlined – education. So everything that's going to be the foundation of further work, with all kinds of quality and reform, so we've re-emerged that word and put it on top of the main topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56724	Thank you. On Article 122, the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 125 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Miljan Damjanovic submitted to Article 126 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Sreto Peric submitted to Article 127 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Perry, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56725	Mr. Minister, our goal is to open up as many questions as possible to which this bill does not provide an answer, so that you can think about them, and let us even decide whether by applying this law, perhaps by amending and supplementing this or some other law, it doesn't matter at all. So, we want in a positive sense to provoke you to engage in one way that means life to the citizens of Serbia. I must tell you that you are at the head of a ministry that may be the most difficult both police officer and nurse, engineer, technician, lawyer, economist, all of them go through a system called the education system. You inherited a lot of problems, because there was always talk of reform but it wasn't in the right and the essential sense. It wasn't a long time ago when 95, maybe even 97% of the funds allocated to the Ministry of Education went to the salaries of employees at the Ministry of Education. The situation is different now, but not nearly satisfactory. We don't want to convince you members of this law like some colleagues do. It's their right not to go into it, but I say, once again, to open up as many questions as possible. Now I'm going to tell you, a lady from the interior came to Belgrade to get her degree. She couldn't find a college, and that's where the problems came from. I understand that someone can't find a college when they're enrolled, they come from inside, they don't know where colleges are, they open up to you every day, but after four years, there's no college, they think they stole someone. It wouldn't be a problem if she presented herself as a graduate economist, only that her college serves it. A recent lady has been elected, you can check out her colleagues, she was recently elected director of a public firm, and that's what, colleague Orlic, when we graduate, insist on her being put to a point once, because a bad message is being sent, not just because it means something to someone. You're the head of that ministry and it wasn't long ago. It's not inherited. I think there's a lot more to it today than before. I was in some specialist studies, where he was a student, a graduate student from Kragujevac, impressed me with the level of knowledge and not me, we were equal, but some professors, that means whether he was a private or a state student, that's what Mrs. Verica Radeta, your private school, probably served someone as a good rapper, and it's not the essence of it, but it's the essence of some checks. Now I see this strategy, as you say, the strategy is the general plan of some actions to implement a certain goal, and you have defined the objectives by proposing this law in article 8. The strategy sounds nice, but it's an empty shell most often. It doesn't have to mean that it will, we want to challenge you in general, and you fix with quality, and then we'll be satisfied. Will the proposal of this strategy, which will be made, answer some questions such as, do any of you remember, you ministers sure that, Dobrice Cosic, but not a literary writer, but a young mathematical genius from Užica? Does anyone remember Jovan Stevic, who changed in Chačka in a few months, seven, eight places of residence because he escaped a child from Kosovo and Metohija, also called a mathematical genius from Cačka? There is no social responsibility with local self-government, because those who couldn't find the university now operate and decide, no more social or social responsibilities on the part of large businesses. I was lucky to work at a company, at the time, with social capital, 62,000 employees, she had her own development institute. Do we have that today? Private companies don't invest that way. They're buying ready-made experts from this country. Maybe it's expensive. If this strategy that you provided for in article 127 answers these questions, we can also be content. If not, it's for nothing. But you're slowly accepting what we're talking about and what we're pointing to and making remarks. Here is Article 126. Surveillance of the implementation of the provisions of this law will be carried out by the Ministry. We've been saying for many years that the ministry should work. You say Minister, now you're taking things slowly, I hope you'll do better about this strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56726	The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56727	Since, Mr. Peric, you personally spoke to me about a note concerning a lady who can't find where her college is so that, as I understood your presentation, she would raise a degree there, right, which she had been appointed to be the director of an important company, you said. So, just in support of these congregation discussions about relationships to see that you can not only speak openly and publicly and when you don't have as a parliamentary group more time on any basis, but here, you can also get an opportunity from us to, in an additional two minutes, through a replica, explain what you wanted to say. I was going to ask you what lady's question is. What's this about? What company, what college? Just so we understand exactly what you mean, but in this time that's left with me, I just want to tell you that you should take care of, of course, everyone, about Dobroica Cosic, the mathematician. Certainly if we think of the same young man, it seems to me that I even went to the same high school as he is, only the difference in a few years, he's younger, but Doberica Cosic, who is a historical person and you know what, about that? The city government, which is the majority in the Belgrade City Assembly, brought together by the SNS, decided that academics and writers, Dobrica Cosic, are assigned or dedicated to one street in the city of Belgrade, precisely because of its work that is important in literature, but also in various other things that are today and not only today, relevant, because it is an important man for many reasons and for more reasons. Do you know who is the greatest opponent of this idea and who has given himself one of his life's tasks to, if he can, sabotage in any way, who, every day, must spend an hour of his life and work, who should dedicate to the citizens he represents, on fighting the idea that Dobrica Cosic has a street in the city of Belgrade? That Bastache of yours from Old Town. It's probably a kind of response to some of the values we need to represent and some of the things that we need to show our relationship to the society we belong to, to those who deserve a place in it or to those who deserve to be provided with them by this society, to make it easier for them tomorrow to provide their place in it, even in its history.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56728	Right on line, MP Sreto Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56729	This law will not only be implemented by state authorities, someone and representatives of local self-government units, although we now have examples of which I have spoken, and many of these are members of the SNS, Mr. Orlic, who could not find colleges. They're less important here now. If they had a good example of how the president of the state did it at one point, they would do it for themselves. The ones about this law and its implementation, as you like to say, won't care much. It is important to them that they have come to certain positions and wait for that time to pass in order to maybe renew that mandate, it does not matter. We need the best. Local self-government units have big problems, and the worst ones come, and those about Dobraca Cosic and Jovan Stevic and many others need to be taken into account. The minister can't know that somewhere there's an extremely talented or highly talented young man who doesn't run it from a local self-government unit, or from a place where he lives. The point is to give these people a chance. A lot of people think that if you're super-intelligent, you should take care of yourself. These people need to be enabled, because this law treats it, it needs to be made possible to do scientific and research work. They've been doing it since the youngest days, those who are for it and who are special capacities. You see, since I don't come from Capca, I don't want to complain about where I come from, and there's no big difference, I'm going to tell you right now, between those who are in power in Capca and some other local environments. It's about the same thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56730	Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56731	It's a shame, Mr. Peric, that you don't use this replica I've given you in a better way. I asked you to give me the name of the lady you're talking about. I asked you what college this is, which school, which company it's about, if you're looking at examples like that and you're talking about -- these are SNS people. You didn't answer anything. You just said, "Oh, those are SNS people." What you did, it's called a bluff. That's why you shouldn't have done it. As for Tomislav Nikolic, who stands at his diploma, is January 2007? Where is and what is Tomislav Nikolic in January 2007, now we ask this direct question, without any bluffing? And once again, without any bluffing, when the court finds that someone faked the diploma, as established in the case of Miroljub Ignatovic, has ever seen that such a man we later promoted, promoted, rewarded, elected president of the executive board or secretary general, I no longer remember what Ignjatovic was in the SRS? Without asking a bluff, I wouldn't say you'd remember such examples, just like I didn't see you remember the name of this lady. In any case, if we want to deal with current needs and perspectives a little bit more, the well-intentioned proposal is, you can see that what's controversial is solved and can be solved today. For example, get rid of that Bastache in Old Town. Stop supporting him, not only because of his relationship with Doberica Cosic, and not only because of his relationship with the development of Belgrade, but rather because of the fact that there are no more damages to the issue of Doberica Cosic, so that there are no more 200 million damages at the level of a sports centre in Old Town, just so that there are not tens of millions of dubiosis in the budget of that city municipality every year, that they are not at this level at which they are now, and especially not that these minuses are even greater. Here, that would be a well-intentioned proposal and once again without any bluffing.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56732	Right on the line, MP Sreto Peric, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56733	Very short. Graduated economist, please ask Mr Branislav Malovic or Mr Zeljko Marjanović for a name. That's enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56734	Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56735	The quality of this response was such that it is clear to me that one Bastic has a society that he has, because such society deserves each other.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56736	National MP Nikola Savic submitted to Article 128 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56737	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have asked this amendment to shorten the deadlines for the adoption of sublegal acts. Sublegal acts make up, let's say, the final link in the whole chain, the idea of law, the public debate, the adoption and without these sublegal acts, every law is inapplicable. This is particularly important when it comes to the Law on Science and Scientific Research. Now it doesn't matter whether this deadline is six months, like the government suggested, or 60 days, like I asked for, it's important that these things should be done properly and that it shouldn't be brakes on science and scientific research. Imagine, maybe some man did some of his epochal work and there because of someone who didn't do it, let's say, some trivial things, that finding, invention, etc., he can't live. But these people who pass sublegal acts, most often there are cases that they don't even understand what it's about, especially when it comes to science, and when a man doesn't understand something, everything a man doesn't understand, that's nonsense to him. People like that are asked to do their job, to bring in sublaws. No one asks them to, say, understand certain things in the field of science, to understand the latest version of the Constitution of the world according to so-called. String theory, these are not required to know how many digits can express the total mass of the universe, which is orderly size etc. As far as science is concerned, the Serbian people are fortunate to have us answer to every area that requires increased abilities. From there, Nikola Tesla and Milanković and Pupin and many more of our scientists. So one great nation makes it, first of all, great people. Like I said, we have a lot of big people like that. That's why science is of paramount importance, and we're free to say about our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56738	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56739	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we don't appreciate books by cover, drinks by barrel, man by suit, and, of course, our graduates by diplomats. Imagine Bastac's graduated dramatist. He directs his plays live, scaring the citizens of Belgrade, obstructing the works of physical workers, builders, stonemakers, etc. Imagine Janko Veselinović, who Istanbul calls Istanbul, a doctor of science. Imagine a graduate lawyer, this should be said to me by Mr. Orlic, Nikola Jovanovic, president, head of the committee group, it seems to me to be the unhappy Gilas and Jeremic, in the town of Belgrade, who says in one minute -- suspicion, established suspicion, s-u-m-j, watch out, a graduate lawyer who boasts that he has finished two other European colleges and that doctoral studies went there somewhere. Imagine the kind of diploma that is public impression that they are doubtless, as Nikola Jovanovic would say, or as the councilman is already called, no doubt. He says lj, I say him. Now, imagine that kind of knowledge. I think calls must be full of knowledge, especially if they're such high-ranking academic titles. What I'm trying to say is that in these scientific research, people need to learn, learn and learn other lessons, explore and find, but most importantly, Mr. Minister, and you owe me an answer, did you ever leave the N1 studio in Luxembourg? The show was live, going to Ljubljana. We'll know right away that this is a fake cross-border channel. I've been to New Belgrade twice, and I didn't know he was in Luxembourg. I was in their studio. So, the most important thing for me is that what is explored and found is applied, to somehow ensure that it is applied first in this country, to be in favour of our economic development, military strengthening, economic strengthening, the overall development of this country. In that case, calling and knowledge will be applicable to the joy of all citizens, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Serbia and beyond. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56740	The word is made by Minister Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56741	Since I'm a geographer, I know there was a Korean settlement in New Belgrade, but probably this part of New Belgrade is called Luxembourg.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56742	Member of the 137th Amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Ljubenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56743	Thank you, Chairman. On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted this amendment to Article 137. Proposal for a law on science and research. Our intention was that the text of the law, which would be passed, would not be too burdensome. We believe that once a certain substance is defined in the law, it does not have to be repeated through several members of the law what is meant, especially if some other laws have already defined it the same way. The explanation, one of the main reasons for the adoption of a new law in the field of science and research, shows a change in the model of funding scientific and research work. This could be seen as an attempt by the state to perhaps keep young researchers and scientists from staying in Serbia, but only an attempt. Given that there is no significant increase in the budget for scientific and research activities, that there is no significant involvement in the economy, the application of this law in practice is at stake. What officials in Serbia would finally have to understand is that the biggest damage to the state is the current trend in mass emigration of young people who leave with the intention of never coming back here again, and the particular problem in the context of this problem is that among them there is an increasing number of educated people whose knowledge and work will be denied by the state of Serbia. Most young scientists, researchers, leave exclusively for reasons of economic nature, because someone else is willing to offer them more, so they will return more to it, and our country is in such a situation at multiple losses. The amendments of the SRS parliamentary group are constructive. Our suggestions on this bill are extremely well-intentioned and I see no reason not to accept what is in the interest of all citizens of Serbia, especially those of people who are honored in science and research. These honorable people deserve not only respect, but these people can make progress to Serbia if they stay in it. Otherwise, like I said, we're a multiple loser. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-02-0.u56744	Thank you. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We'd be done with today's work and we'd be back tomorrow at 10:00.
