ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-11-0.u51558	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the session of the 11th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 93 MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please insert your cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 135 MPs are present in the hall and that we have conditions for today's work. I would like to inform you that, in writing, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we have been informed that today's session will not be attended by MPs Djorda Milicevic, Daniela Stojadinovic, Danica Bukvic, Milisav Petronijevic and Dejan Radenkovic. In accordance with Article 86(2) and Article 87(2), Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that this session has been convened within a short period of time set by Article 86(1). Rules of Procedure, exclusively for Monday, therefore, beyond those laid down in Article 87(1). The Rules of Procedure, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider as soon as possible the draft acts set out in the agenda set out in the request of the MPs. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with the Assembly of the 11th Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly, convened at the request of 154 MPs, pursuant to Article 106(3), paragraph 3. The Constitution of Article 48(3) Law on the National Assembly and Article 249. The Rules of Procedure have been sent to you for the maintenance of an extraordinary session of the National Assembly, with a certain agenda contained in that request. As you could see for the session of the 11th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, a agenda with 40 agendas was set. The agenda is proposed for 40 items of the agenda, and this proposal for the agenda is given to you. Agenda: 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Preschool Education and Education Act, which was submitted by the Government (number 60-3522/18 of 19 November 2018); 2. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Fundamental Education and Education, which was submitted by the Government (number 610-3523/18 of 19 November 2018); 1/2DJ/VK 3. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Fundamentals of the Education and Education System, which was submitted by the Government (number 61-3520/18 of 19 November 2018); 4. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Student and Student Standard, which was submitted by the Government (number 61-3518/18 of 19 November 2018); 5. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Serbian Literature Association, which was submitted by the Government (number 65-118/19 of 24 January 2019); 6. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Weapons and Ammunition, which was submitted by the Government (number 210-52/19 of 14 January 2019); 7. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on radiation and nuclear safety and security, submitted by MP Maja Gojkovic (number 011-194/19 of 5 February 2019); 8. Proposal for a law confirming the Convention establishing the European Organisation for Nuclear Research, submitted by the Government (number 011-224/19 of 8 February 2019); 9. Proposal for a law confirming the Protocol on the Privileges and Immunities of the European Organisation for Nuclear Research, submitted by the Government (number 011-223/19 of 8 February 2019); 10. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Transport Community on the seat of the Permanent Secretariat of the Transport Community, which was submitted by the Government (number 011-222/19 of 8 February 2019); 11. Proposal for a law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan on co-operation in the fight against crime, submitted by the Government (number 011-27/19 of 8 January 2019); 12. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Hungary on amendments to the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Hungary on Border Control in Road, Railway and Water Traffic, which was submitted by the Government (number 011-53/19 of 14 January 2019); 13. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Montenegro on the international road crossing of Gostun (Republic of Serbia) - Dobrakovo (Montenegro), which was submitted by the Government (number 011-3541/18 of 19 November 2018); 14. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Montenegro on the international road crossing of the caves (Republic of Serbia) - Dračenavac (Montenegro), which was submitted by the Government (number 011-3540/18 of 19 November 2018); 15. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Montenegro on the opening of a common border crossing between the Republic of Serbia (Certainly (Montenegro) for international road transport, which was submitted by the Government (number 011-3539/18 of 19 November 2018); 16. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Montenegro on the regulation of the border traffic regime submitted by the Government (number 011-3538/18 of 19 November 2018); 17. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Montenegro on the opening of the common border crossing of Godovo (Republic of Serbia)-Vuca (Montenegro) for international road passenger traffic submitted by the Government (number 011-3537/18 of 19 November 2018); 18. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Montenegro on the international railway border crossing of Prepolje (Republic of Serbia) - Vrbnica - Bijelo Polje (Montenegro), which was submitted by the Government (number 011-3536/18 of 19 November 2018); 19. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Montenegro on the international road crossing of the Apple (Republic of Serbia)-Rance (Montenegro), which was submitted by the Government (number 011-3535/18 of 19 November 2018); 20. Proposal for a law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the United States of America on extradition, which was submitted by the Government (number 011-26/19 of 8 January 2019); 21. Proposal for a Law confirming the Protocol between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United Arab Emirates on Amendments and Supplements to the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United Arab Emirates on the abolition of visas for holders of diplomatic and official/special passports submitted by the Government (number 011-23/19 of 8 January 2019); 22. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Georgia on the abolition of visas for holders of ordinary passports submitted by the Government (number 27-3463/18 of 13 November 2018); 23. Proposal for a Law confirming the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Israel on the avoidance of Double Taxation and Prevention of Tax Evasion in relation to Income Taxes, submitted by the Government (number 43-3874/18 of 18 December 2018); 24. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Israel on mutual assistance in customs matters submitted by the Government (number 483-3732/18 of 4 December 2018); 25. Proposal for a Law confirming the Air Traffic Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, which was submitted by the Government (number 011-101/19 of 22 January 2019); 26. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Canada on air traffic, which was submitted by the Government (number 011-100/19 of 22 January 2019); 27 Proposal for a law confirming the Air Traffic Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of India, which was submitted by the Government (number 011-46/19 of 11 January 2019); 28. Proposal for a law confirming the Air Traffic Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan, which was submitted by the Government (number 011-45/19 of 11 January 2019); 29. Proposal for a law confirming the Financial Treaty Development of the River Transport Infrastructure in Serbia between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank, which was submitted by the Government (number 400-3764/18 of 7 December 2018); 30. Proposal for a law confirming the Convention relating to safety and health in agriculture, submitted by the Government (number 011-99/19 of 22 January 2019); 31. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of India on cooperation in the field of plant health and plant quarantine, which was submitted by the Government (number 011-22/19 of 8 January 2019); 32. Proposal for a decision on the election of the President of the Court, which was submitted by the High Council of the judiciary (number 119-3840/18 of 14 December 2018); 33. Proposal for a decision on the choice of a judge who was first elected to the judicial office, which was submitted by the High Council of the judiciary (number 119-3957/18 of 27 December 2018); 34. Proposal for a decision on the selection of judges first elected to the judicial office, which was submitted by the High Council of the judiciary (number 119-3690/18 of 30 November 2018); 35. Proposal for a decision on the termination of the post of President of the Supreme Court in Kragujevac, which was submitted by the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government (Number 118-181/19 of 4 February 2019) 36. Proposal for a decision on the termination of the office of the Public Prosecutor in the Royal Public Prosecutor's Office, which was submitted by the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government (number 02-3806/18 of 11 December 2018); 37. Proposal for a decision on the termination of the role of public prosecutor in the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Ruma, which was submitted by the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government (number 02-3805/18 of 11 December 2018); 38. Proposal for a decision to elect a member of the National Bank of Serbia Board, which was submitted by the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending (number 02-3870/18 of 18 December 2018); 39. Proposal for a decision on the termination of the function of the President of the Securities Commission, which was submitted by the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds (number 02-3871/18 of 18 December 2018); 40. Summary List of candidates for members of the National Council for Culture, submitted by the Committee on Culture and Information (number 02-946/18 of 13 April 2018). National MP Aleksandar Martinovic, on the basis of Article 92(2) of Article 157(2) of Articles 170 and 192, 193, 201 and 202. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, proposed to carry out a joint principle and uniform search of points 1 to 40: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Preschool Education and Education, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Fundamental Education and Education, Proposal for a Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Study and Student Standard, Proposal for the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Study of the Republic of Serbia, Proposal for a Law on the Amendment of the Republic of Serbia, Proposal for a Law on the Amendments of the Republic of Serbia and the Treaty on the Republic of Serbia, Proposal for a Law on the Amendment of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia, Proposal for a Law on the Law on the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia (Proposing the Republic of Croatia on the Republic of Croatia to the Republic of Croatia) (Revr. Does Ambassador Martinovic want a word? (No) I thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. (Vojislav Seselj: According to the Rules of Procedure. You'll get right away just to say what it's like not to interrupt the vote. I conclude the vote: 132, against -two abstentions - no, 17 MPs did not vote for this proposal. I find that we have adopted this proposal. The word is from Ambassador Vojislav Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-11-0.u51559	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, by adopting this proposal, have just been violated by Article 157. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. In one sentence of its argument, the Proposer stated to one single sentence that the merger of the debate proposed the above-mentioned proposals, given that they were conditioned and that the solutions in them were interrelated. That is not true, and therefore the proposer would have to explain how the draft decision on the election of judges first elected to a judicial post with the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Fundamental Education and Education? Probably because some of the proposed judges don't have a personal educational level or one that fits the elementary school even though they wave to college graduates and enrolled sixes in an endless series. What is the connection between these two agenda points, between those two proposed acts? So, a summary list of candidates for members of the National Council for Culture with a motion for a decision with the termination of the post of President of the Grand Court in Kragujevac? So, a proposal for a decision to elect a member of the NBS Board with a bill to confirm the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Montenegro on the international railway border crossing of Prepolje-Vrbnica-Bijelo Polje? So, a huge number of nebuloses, and Article 157 says -- the National Assembly can decide and carry out a joint principle search on several draft laws that are on the agenda of the same session, and they are conditioned or are related to each other. So you're not going to react to this obvious violation of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-11-0.u51560	Thank you. I cannot react because it is the will of most MPs to accept the proposal of one of the MPs, it is also defined by the Rules of Procedure that we are working on.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-11-0.u51561	So most MPs have the right to break the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-11-0.u51562	The Rules of Procedure are very missing, so we can talk about it...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-11-0.u51563	So we can break it.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-11-0.u51564	We can't break him.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-11-0.u51565	Should we break him for missing, or should we bring a new one?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-11-0.u51566	We can't break it, but, in accordance with this Rules of Procedure we're working on, we've adopted the right decision. (Vojislav Seselj: I'm only interested in one thing – did Lazanski vote to adopt all these agenda points? I'll give you my word later. We're going to work on the agenda. The notice of the invitations to the session should not be read to you, there are the competent ministers and their associates, as well as the proposals for other agenda points. Minister Mladen Sarcevic is with us for the time being. I believe his opening statement will take so long until the other colleagues arrive. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. (Vojislav Seselj: Here, I apply immediately.) It's got to be in writing. Authorities can report like this. Therefore, pursuant to Article 157(2) and Article 170, 192, 193, 201 and 202. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principled and uniform search on points of the agenda from 1 to 40. Does the Proposer or the Proposer's representative want a word? (Yes) Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-11-0.u51567	Dear People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman, I will try to be concise and say that almost the first three points make up one continent, i.e. two years ago, we did a system law on education and education, with its factors, and these are pre-school, primary and secondary education laws. As life goes faster than law, we realize that some things have to be complemented. First of all, they refer to the information system and to the introduction of a single information system in education, as a unique educational number, so this was an opportunity for some more things to be done. So the first point is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Preschool Education and Education, and it has the least changes. The amendments relate exclusively to the electronic management of the administration in preschool institutions, because in the old law we left that it can be conducted both in writing and electronically. Since we have done a lot of work in these last two years on this plan, the need for this electronic model to be more concrete and reliable now has been created. When it comes to basic education and education, it is also the alignment of this special law with the ZOS system law and also concerns electronic document keeping. Also, there's one here, so I wouldn't say the problem, but the situation in everyday school life, and it's about an electoral object - the other side language, because it's a habit that electoral objects accumulate and that there's a violation of the structure of the Sunday student norm. You know that pedagogical norms are determined by the age of students and there are very clear limits on how many children, aged, can have regular classes, norms, from the ages of first to fourth, from fifth to eighth, etc. The electoral program – the second foreign language has become detached at the end, in the mid-80s, and this status has a day-to-day status. When we tried in the past law to propose to professors that the subject was not evaluated in a classical way, and the electoral subject, but that children were taught at levels of knowledge, so that the certificates they could obtain had a greater value than some three or four, in practice there was another need and a request to even it with a numerical assessment that would go on average. It's a little pedagogical defeating, because if it's the only way to regulate the status of both students and disciplines in class, then the rest is that it might have been an early decision. So, the electoral programme – the other foreign language returns to an old form, which is as an object that is estimated and whose assessment goes to average and final estimates. That's some sort of basic story. When we talk about preschool education and education, there are also deadlines for keeping records data, proper deadlines for sublegal acts and the validity of sublegal acts. When we talk about some other parts, elements, amendments and additions to the elementary school law, it is clear that the general success of the students is prescribed, in conclusion with election programmes, also, governance, class and correctional exams, which are now moving the records. Also, these new solutions do not generate any new costs. Most of all, I'd focus on the system law that gives rise to these special laws. Agreeings are mostly due to newspapers, which is the introduction of a normal digital system of education and education through the Office for Quality Assessment. This office is receiving a new centre called the Educational Technology Centre. It is urgent because we now have the measurement of the effects of education policy in the field of digitisation in education, both at the entrance to the education system and at the exit of the system. New solutions are also related to teachers working in schools with children with special needs. The old defectology college no longer had all the classes related to teaching methods, and these teachers had to train afterwards, so that their competences for work would be adequate. The university is now called the Faculty of Special Education and Rehabilitation in Schools for Education of Students with Disabilities in Development and Disabilities, so now the subject of teaching methods for this profession appears. A unique information system in education aims to actually reach the total register of all institutions, the employee register and the register of all participants in Serbia's education system. It's the introduction of so-called the unique educational number, which is in agreement with the protectors, in which way it should be introduced. This leads to a more efficient overall education and education system. The ministry has made every effort to realize enough equipment and training to do so. The provisions that are related to another language were interpreted. There are some illogicalities when it comes to the selection of directors of preschool institutions, because it happened that someone who was an expert associate had the right to be a director was disabled, because the overall duration of the work of an expert associate was not fully respected, as he respected someone who had acquired in an institution where he worked, which is illogical, because a man could have acquired in a nearby institution. We introduce a term, as you know, in the education system, terms of special national interest are introduced when it comes to institutes. The institutes that got that status were, of course, the Institute of Physics, for medical research and for warfare and vegetables. In previous amendments to the Law on Higher Education, Belgrade University gained the status of a university of national importance at 210 years. When it comes to institutions in the education system, this status, this time we make a proposal and we introduce this paper, which is the Mathematical High School in Belgrade. I think it's just enough to say that so far she's educated over 7,000 students, that she's given over 500 doctors sciences, that over 500 medals have been won in various international competitions. These are the institutions that represent our education best in an international context. These students are both champions in acting and reciting, literature, astronomy, physics, and many other subjects. The second high school is the "Draj Jova Jovanovic" High School, which has existed since 1703 and which has educated many academics. I think 77 academics have schooled, that in continuity it has been going on for several centuries, in the fourth century it enters, and that the teaching at that school is performed bilingually in both Russian and English, in German and French. The aforementioned high school is the winner of international medals, as well as domestic medals, from "Holy Sava" to "French Legion of Honor". So, these two institutions don't deserve any new financial ones now, which is said to be some rewards, but at some new moment, when the Public Sector Salary Act is passed, teachers of these schools can make much faster progress in titles and acquisitions, which is said to be a much larger pedagogical title, and thus have bigger salaries. In another funding model, this opens up the possibility that not only of these institutions, but of those who meet these high international criteria, they also find themselves in a society like this. One issue of technical nature has been resolved, very important, for the employees in education, and this is the way of calculating the severance. Then, too, the monitoring of digital components in the context of self-evaluation. We have also made it possible that abroad, since we have many additional schools, many Serbs live in the diaspora, lecturers, our people, who live there, and have acquired certain competences within their education. So, according to the old model, only someone from Serbia, who worked here, could go, say, to Germany and Switzerland to keep working there. A much cheaper option is that our citizens, who live there, can do the same thing, and on the other hand, there are a lot of such cases. In this capacity, we allow diplomatic and consular representations to be involved in these procedures in order to cover as many students as possible. As you know, we have recently adopted a new Regulation, a new curricula and a programme and the goal is to include children in the diaspora, as much as possible, by learning national culture, history, geography, Serbian language and literature. The most work concerns JISP, as well as the Centre for this educational policy. The next law is in fact an amendment to the Law on student and student standards. All it has to say is that he has reached one satisfactory level, in terms of feeding and housing students and students, and that the network of institutions is constantly expanding. Currently, there are 63 institutions in Serbia that belong to this student and student standard. Here we have introduced more newspapers and the right to credit all students of basic studies. For second-level students, master of studies and specialist studies, the grant fund is also increased, because those who have achieved a better average in this way become much more privileged, have the right to achieve a further scholarship, and those who have had loans, and who have an average of 8.5, of course, do not return it. Also, the conditions, which are also defined criteria, provide that current deficits also appear as something that would be worth a scholarship and for these purposes there is one list that can be established annually according to the needs of the economy, which can bring a new category of credit and student scholarship. The role of students within the student standard in relation to the student has been separated, as the current ways of their behaviour in the home have not been treated in the same way. While the student is underage, has parents, guardians, has a pedagogical council that cares for him and his behavior, until then the student is an adult citizen who himself is responsible for his actions. Additional categories have been introduced and the role of the pedagogical council has been strengthened. In these amendments and additions of the Law there is a quite well-processed category of so-called. November resorts, because so far, you remember Zlatibor, Avala and these facilities, and Palić, were facilities for so-called so-called. recovery. We think it's a little inappropriate for students to be able to rest, but also to deal with other activities. These become centres where sport and entrepreneurship can develop, IT and all other types of literacy, so they have some sort of active vacation. The Law on an education and education system has been adopted, together with the Law on student and student standards. Approximatelyly, this Law had to be brought into line with the Law on Dual, the Law on Medium, the Law on Higher Education, because they had in the meantime, so that both the November and the student standards had to comply with all their provisions. It is a matter of conducting a disciplinary procedure in the absence of parents, when it comes to urgent procedures, when a student in a home is represented by a school psychologist, a pedagogal. There's a reason for getting a license from a tutor. They are in line with the graduality, as well as in the teaching of primary and secondary schools, so the role of educational inspection, when it comes to student homes, is now being introduced into the system framework. This much for the first four points.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-11-0.u51568	Thank you. Before I give my word, we need to establish the resignations of two MPs. You have received, honourable Members, the resignations of Members Ivana Stojiljković and Ljibuška Lakatos as MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Report of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs for the purpose of considering these paragraphs, which has determined that the resignation has led to the case referred to in Article 88(2). The Law on the Selection of People's MPs and proposes that the National Assembly, within the meaning of Article 88(3) and Article 4 of the same law, determine the termination of the term of office of these Members of Parliament. In accordance with Article 88(2), paragraph 2 and Article 3 and 4. The Law on the Selection of National MPs, the National Assembly, on the proposal of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, finds that the term of office has ceased before the end of the time on which the MPs Ivani Stojiljković and Ljibuški Lakatos were elected on the day of their resignation. In accordance with the Law on the selection of Members of the People's Parliaments, the discharge of seats in the National Assembly will be carried out. I now give my word to Minister Vlad Vukosavljevic. VLADAN Vukosavljevic: The Honorable President of the National Assembly, the Honorable People's MPs, is ahead of you with a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the Serbian Literature Association. The law that implies change allows this oldest publishing house, a living publishing institution, to be able to finance budgetally, which has not been the case so far and for various reasons endangering the survival of the Serbian literary cooperative itself. The constitutional basis for the adoption of the law is contained in the provisions of Article 97(10). The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which is prescribed that the Republic of Serbia, among other things, regulates and provides a system in the area of culture. I will remind only briefly of things that we all know, lessover, that the Serbian literary cooperative was founded in 1892 as a society, as it is said, which, by its work, and especially by publishing and attracting selected works in the field of cultural creation, contributes to the spread of general enlightenment and culture of the people. According to the words, very briefly, Dr Vladimir Ćorovic, in the book "The History of the Serbian Literature Cooperative" in 1932, says that the SKZ, although in its name it bears the term "college", was never really that, but by taking that name "cooperative" she wanted, according to Ćorovic, to introduce into her circle the congratulating morale of our old home cooperative, to connect people more closely and to help them with the spirit and useful continents. These high and important goals and motives of the founders of the KKZ have enabled the KKZ to become one of the foundations of publishing and culture in the Republic of Serbia for 130 years. However, given the circumstances of, of course, the status issues of the KKZ simply resulting from changes in the financial and status sphere, it has lost ground for opening a budget account, which for many years has hindered its normal work and has prevented the financing of its publishing projects that are of importance to Serbian culture. These proposed changes ahead of you in the law eliminate these problems of the status definition of the KKZ, according to the applicable normative. In this way, by adopting this, the Ministry of Culture will be able, in accordance with the law, to finance the work of the KKZ, for example, for the famous "Blue Wheel", which is one of the most important living institutions of Serbian culture in the last 130 years and will be able to enable and create conditions of the Ministry of Culture to, in a way, assist the most important institutions of Serbian culture. So much for an introduction. If there are any questions, we're ready to answer. Thank you. The word is by Ivan Jovicic, election member of the High Council of Judges, deputy chairman of the Supreme Council of the judiciary.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-11-0.u51570	Thank you. Dear Presidents, honourable Members of Parliament, you are presented with a proposal for a decision on the election of judges who are elected for the first time as judges, submitted by the VSS to the Assembly on 30 November 2018. Namely, the VSS is in "Official Messenger" No. 14/18, dated 23 March 2018, announced the choice, among other things, and for judges who were first elected for a total of 15 basic judges and 27 misdemeanor courts. The High Council of the Court has established, on the basis of the Law on Judges and the Rules on the Programme and the way the examinations are conducted, the professionality and competence of the candidate for the judge to be first elected. At a session held on 13 February 2018, the High Council of the Court of Justice adopted a Decision on the Education of the Commission of the High Council for the Selection of Judges in Fundamental and Violent Courts. On 13 June 2018, an examination was carried out for candidates for judges who were first elected and who applied for an election for criminal courts, while on 14 June 2018 an examination was carried out for candidates who submitted the application for a choice for judges of the basic courts. The High Council Commission of the judiciary held talks with all candidates who submitted applications for basic and criminal courts and established a list of candidates, which was published on the website of the High Council of Justice. In accordance with Article 49. The High Judicial Council Act provided information and opinions on the competence, competence and dignity of the candidates, while in accordance with Article 50(2) of the Rules of Procedure. The law on judges for candidates coming from the order of judicial assistants obtained a work grade. On the basis of Article 13(3), Law on the High Council of the Judiciary and Article 51(1). At the meeting held on 26 November 2018, the High Judicial Council established a motion for a decision for the selection of judges and proposed to the National Assembly the selection of 90 candidates for the basic courts and 65 candidates for the criminal courts, so that Vesna Ivkov Radović, Judge of the General Court in Arangelovac, proposed to elect Judges of the Basic Court in Arangelovac, Jelena Radenković, Judge at the Court of Justice of the Court of Justice in Kragujevac, proposed to elect Judges for the Court of Justice in Kragujevac, Mr. Mirjan Sredojević Papadopoulos, member of the Court of Justice at the Court of Justice of the General Court in Kragujevac, proposed to elect judges for the Court of Justice in the Court of Justice in the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice of the Court of the Court of Justice of the Court of the Court of Justice, the Court of the Court of Justice of the Court of the Court of Justice of the Court of the Court of Justice of the Court of the Europeans, Mr. Vršac, proposed to elect a judge for the Criminal Court in Vršac, Milos Banasevic, judge at the Criminal Court in Gornji Milanovac, is proposed to elect a judge for the Criminal Court in Gornji Milanovac, Mirjana Salatić, judge at the Criminal Court of the Prescr., is proposed to elect a judge for the Criminal Court in Zrenjanin, Svetlana Marković, the user of the initial training at the Court of Justice in the Pregotina, Maja Dubrovac, judge in Zrenjanin, Daniela Trifunović, judge for the Court of Justice in the General Court in Paraćin, is proposed to elect the Court of Justice in the Prekršjavić, the Court of Justice in Prekrac, Maja Dubrovac, the Court of Justice in Jagodna, the Court of the Court of Justice of the Court of the Pregožin, the Court of Justice of the Court of the Court of the Court of Justice of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of Justice of the Court of the Court of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Court of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Court of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic ofSlovenia , the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Slovenia of the Republic of Slovenia of the Court of Slovenia of the Republic of the Republic of Slovenia of the Republic of Slovenia of the Republic ofSlovenia , the Republic of the Republic ofSlovenia , the Republic of the Republic of the Republicof in Belgrade, for the election of judges for the Criminal Court in Belgrade, Milica Milic, judge's assistant at the Criminal Court in Belgrade for the Criminal Court in Belgrade, Zoran Cvetkovic, judge's assistant at the Criminal Court in Belgrade, is proposed to elect a judge for the Criminal Court in Belgrade, Bratislava Terzic, judge's assistant at the Criminal Court in Belgrade, is proposed to elect a judge for the Criminal Court in Belgrade, Mirjana Trikic, judicial assistant in the Criminal Court, is proposed to elect judges for the Criminal Court in Belgrade, Irina Panov, the user of initial training at the Judicial Academy, is proposed to elect for the Criminal Court in Belgrade, Gorica Stosic, a judicial assistant in the Criminal Court in Belgrade, is proposed to elect judges in the Criminal Court of Justice in Belgrade, the Court of Justice in the Court of Justice in Belgrade, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice of Justice, and the Court of Justice of the Court of the Court of Justice, the Court of the Court of the Court of Justice of the Court of the Court of Justice of the Court of the Court of Justice of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of Justice of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of Justice of the Court of the Court of Justice of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of Justice of the Court of the Court of Kristina Sekaric, judge's assistant at the High Court in Belgrade, is proposed to elect a judge for the Belgrade Criminal Court. Suzana Plasic, a judicial assistant at the Criminal Court in Belgrade, is proposed to elect a judge of the Criminal Court in Belgrade, as well as Novica Jelic, a judicial assistant at the Novi Sad Criminal Court, who has been proposed for the election of a judge of the Criminal Court in Novi Sad. Zoran Maric, judge's assistant at the Criminal Court of Appeal, is proposed to elect a judge for the Criminal Court in Novi Sad. Marko Menicanin, judge's assistant at the New Sad Criminal Court, is proposed to elect a judge for the New Sad Criminal Court. Miroslav Tashin, judge's assistant at the Criminal Court of Appeal, is proposed to elect a judge for the New Sad Criminal Court. Milica Janca, judge's assistant at the Court of Appeal in Novi Sad, is proposed to elect a judge for the basic court in Novi Sad. Juliana Tashin, judge's assistant at the New Sad Supreme Court, is proposed to elect a judge for the New Sad Court. Aleksandra Herak, judge's assistant at the Court of Appeal in Novi Sad, is proposed to elect a judge of the basic court in Novi Sad. Tatjana Drobnjak, judge's assistant at the New Sad Court, is proposed to elect a judge of the basic court in Novi Sad. Miladin Vojvodić, judge's assistant at the New Sad Basic Court, is proposed to elect a judge of the basic court in Novi Sad. Maja Borovac, a user of initial training at the Judicial Academy, is proposed to elect a judge for the basic court in Novi Sad. Senka Bajilo, a user of initial training at the Judicial Academy, is proposed to elect a judge for the Court of First Instance in Novi Sad. Bojan Kotur, judge's assistant at the New Sad Basic Court, is proposed to elect a judge for the Court of First Instance in Novi Sad. Jelena Mandic, judge's assistant at the Supreme Court in Novi Sad, is proposed to elect a judge for the basic court in Novi Sad. Aleksandar Nedeljkov, judge's assistant at the Court of Appeal in Novi Sad, is proposed to elect a judge of the basic court in Novi Sad. Bojana Radocai Ubovic, judge's assistant at the Court of Appeal in Novi Sad, is proposed to elect a judge for the basic court in Novi Sad. Miroslav Conic, judge's assistant at the Court of Appeal in Novi Sad, is proposed to elect a judge of the basic court in Novi Sad. Aleksandar Cacic, judge's assistant at the Court of Appeal in Novi Sad, is proposed to elect a judge for the basic court in Novi Sad. Tatjana Mandic, judge's assistant court of appeals in Novi Sad, is proposed to elect a judge for the basic court in Novi Sad. Natasa Strahovski, a user of initial training at the Judicial Academy, is proposed to elect a judge for the basic court in Novi Sad. Jelena Bogdanović Malesevic, judge's assistant at the Court of Appeal in Novi Sad, is proposed to elect a judge for the Court of First Instance in Novi Sad. Mirjana Sponja, judge's assistant at the Court of Appeal in Novi Sad, is proposed to elect a judge for the basic court in Novi Sad. Tamara Djuraskovic, judge's assistant at the Belgrade Court of Appeal, is proposed to elect a judge for Belgrade's First Basic Court. Jelena Dunjic, judge's assistant at the Belgrade Court of Appeal, is proposed to elect a judge for Belgrade's First Basic Court. Milica Skko, a beneficiary of the initial training of the Judicial Academy, is proposed to elect a judge of the First Basic Court in Belgrade. Sonja Pavlovic, the beneficiary of the initial training of the Judicial Academy, is proposed to elect a judge for the First Basic Court in Belgrade. Irina Angelkovic, judge's assistant at the Belgrade Court of Appeal, is proposed to elect a Judge of the First Basic Court in Belgrade. Milena Vukcevic Jovanovic, a beneficiary of initial training at the Judicial Academy, is proposed to elect a judge of the First Basic Court in Belgrade. Marija Lalovic, judge's assistant at the Belgrade Court of Appeal, is proposed to elect a judge of the First Basic Court in Belgrade. Tanja Kolensi, judge's assistant at the High Court in Belgrade, is proposed to elect a judge for the First Basic Court in Belgrade. Pane Marijanovic, adviser at the Supreme Cassation Court, is proposed to elect a judge of the First Basic Court in Belgrade. Ana Majstorovic, judge's assistant at the Belgrade Court of Appeal, is proposed to elect a judge of the First Basic Court in Belgrade. Olga Doklestic, a beneficiary of initial training at the Judicial Academy, is proposed to elect a judge for Belgrade's First Basic Court. Sinisa Trifunovic, a beneficiary of initial training at the Judicial Academy, is proposed to elect a judge for Belgrade's First Basic Court. Vladimir Zivanovic, judge's assistant at the Belgrade Court of Appeal, is proposed to elect a judge for Belgrade's First Basic Court. Bojana Stankovic, judge's assistant at the High Court in Belgrade, is proposed to elect a judge of the First Basic Court in Belgrade. Jelena Šunkarac, judge's assistant at the Supreme Court in Belgrade, is proposed to elect a judge of the First Basic Court in Belgrade. Sanja Crnjak Stankovic, judge's assistant at the Belgrade Court of Appeal, is proposed to elect a judge for Belgrade's First Basic Court. Teodora Pavlovic, a beneficiary of initial training at the Judicial Academy, is proposed to elect a judge for the First Basic Court in Belgrade. Petar Banovac, a judge's assistant at the High Court in Belgrade, is proposed to elect a judge for the First Basic Court in Belgrade. Predrag Rosnic, judge's assistant at the Court of Commerce in Belgrade, is proposed to elect a judge for Belgrade's First Basic Court. Ivana Radun, a beneficiary of initial training at the Judicial Academy, is proposed to elect a judge for the First Basic Court in Belgrade. Mirjana Mandic, judge's assistant at the High Court in Belgrade, is proposed to elect a judge of the First Basic Court in Belgrade. Ivana Djurisic, judge's assistant at the First Basic Court, is proposed to elect a judge of the First Basic Court in Belgrade, as well as Dejan Milovanovic, a user of initial training at the Judiciary Academy. Also Ivana Djikanovic, a beneficiary of initial training at the Judicial Academy, and Dragan Martinovic, a judicial assistant at the High Court in Belgrade. Then, Bogdan Jankovic, a judicial assistant to the Belgrade Court of Appeal, is proposed to elect a judge of the First Basic Court. Ivana Panupoulou, a beneficiary of initial training at the Judicial Academy, is proposed to elect a judge for the First Basic Court in Belgrade. Vladimir Miletic, a judge's assistant at the High Court in Belgrade, is proposed to elect a judge for the First Basic Court in Belgrade. Ivana Martinovic, a user of initial training at the Judicial Academy, is proposed to elect a judge for the First Basic Court in Belgrade. Zinaida Belic, adviser to the Supreme Cassation Court, is proposed to elect a judge for the First Basic Court in Belgrade. Jovana Obučina, a user of initial training at the Judicial Academy, is proposed to elect a judge of the First Basic Court in Belgrade. Marija Stojanovic, judge's assistant at the Belgrade Court of Appeal, is proposed to elect a judge for the First Basic Court in Belgrade, as well as Milica Konatar, a judge's assistant at the First Basic Court in Belgrade. Marina Barbir, a judicial assistant at the Belgrade Court of Appeal, is proposed to elect a judge for the First Basic Court in Belgrade, as well as Dragana Stanojkovic, a judicial assistant at the Court of Appeal in Belgrade. Bojan Lalic, judge's assistant at the Smederev Basic Court, is proposed to elect a judge of the First Basic Court in Belgrade. Svetlana Mijovic, a user of initial training at the Judicial Academy, is proposed to elect for the First Basic Court in Belgrade. Milija Jelic, a judge's assistant at the High Court in Belgrade, also for Belgrade's First Basic Court, as well as Suzanne Nedeljkovic, a judicial assistant in the Supreme Court in Belgrade. Nevena Ilic, a user of initial training at the Judicial Academy, is proposed to elect a second basic court in Belgrade. Nina Pasalic Petrovic, judge's assistant at the High Court in Belgrade, is proposed to elect a judge at the Second Basic Court in Belgrade. Milos Stojanovic, a beneficiary of initial training at the Judicial Academy, is also proposed for the Second Basic Court in Belgrade. Tijana Paunovic, judge's assistant at the Court of Commerce and Appeals, is proposed as a judge at the Second Basic Court in Belgrade. Jelena Simic, adviser to the Supreme Cassation Court, is proposed to elect a judge at the Second Basic Court in Belgrade. Marina Gavrilovic, a lawyer, is proposed to elect a judge for the Second Basic Court in Belgrade. Jelena Knezevic, judge's assistant at the Court of Commerce in Belgrade, is proposed to elect a judge for the Third Basic Court in Belgrade. Natasa Radjenovic, judge's assistant in Belgrade's Higher Court for the Third Basic Court in Belgrade. Igor Velickovic, judge's assistant at the Third Basic Court, also for the Third Court in Belgrade. Dina Drljaca Savicevic, adviser to the Supreme Cassation Court, is proposed to elect a judge at the Third Basic Court in Belgrade. Ivana Mijailovic also for the Third Basic Court in Belgrade, and she is a judicial assistant at the High Court in Belgrade. Ana Milosevic, judge's assistant at the Belgrade Court of Appeal for the Third Basic Court in Belgrade. Jelena Gajic, judge's assistant at the Belgrade Court of Appeal, for electing a judge for the Third Basic Court in Belgrade. Dina Rodic, judge's assistant at the First Basic Court, is proposed to elect a judge in the Third Basic Court. Milica Ivanovic, adviser at the Supreme Cassation Court to elect a judge for the Third Basic Court and Bogdan Karadzic, a user of initial training at the Judicial Academy, is proposed to elect a judge for the Third Basic Court in Belgrade. Also, we have a motion for the Presevo Criminal Court. The proposal is Radomir Jukic, a lawyer, the Nis Bar Association, as well as another president, which is the president of the Business Court in Leskovac. It is about Veselinka Jeremic, judge of the Business Court in Leskovec. Thank you for your attention. I've read a little bit more, I think these young people deserve the attention and time we've given them.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-11-0.u51571	Thank you. From authorised representatives, more Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-11-0.u51572	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, fellow Members, Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and spending of public funds were held at the 62nd session, held on 18 December 2018 in accordance with Article 22(1) and Article 2(2). The National Bank Act and in accordance with Article 203. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, held a conversation and discussed the SNS parliamentary group's proposal for Mr. Ivan Nikolic to be a candidate for the National Bank Governor's Council. Since ten days earlier, the previous session called on all parliamentary groups to make proposals for members of the National Bank of Serbia's Board of Governors, and since only one parliamentary group had submitted the proposal, otherwise Dr Ivan Nikolic had a previous term of five years at the same post, and we considered it necessary after a conversation with the candidate to refer this same proposal to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, to be an integral part of this agenda today. Mr Ivan Nikolic otherwise performed this post as a member of the Council. He has been employed at the Institute of Economics in Belgrade since 2004. He was born in 1975. Otherwise, it is called a scientific associate and the position of directors and scientific and research development. The editor is also co-author of the monthly newsletter "Macroeconomic Analysis and Trends" etc. MAT and the most influential domestic expert magazine, when we talk about the area of macroeconomic research. Otherwise, at the Faculty of Economics in Belgrade, he graduated, mastered and received his doctorate. Its fields and expertise on the movement of the Republic of Serbia are also an integral part of many strategies and projects that are also part of the government of Serbia's documents, as well as the government of Republika Srpska. He published a number of scientific and professional papers, and participated in several scientific meetings of national and international importance. He is a member of the Scientific Society of the Economist of Serbia. We considered it necessary that with this kind of biography and those results that the NBS had already achieved, members who are part of a team that gives good results should not be changed, so this is the kind of proposal we have come up with. At the same meeting of the Committee, we had the opportunity to adopt the resignation of Professor Dedejic, president of the Securities Commission, for personal reasons. Professor Dedejic normally deals with scientific and research work and a lot of things, when we talk in general about what has been achieved for the Commission's work in the previous period since the new composition of the Securities Commission was established, gives good results. The work itself can be shown that indeed this commission has made a major step in the capital market, and it should also be said that this commission was an integral part of four important chapters when we are talking about the securities market in general. They actively participated in negotiations with the EU when it comes to Chapter 4, the movement of capital - 6, the right of companies, 9 - financial services and 17 - economics and monetary policy. Since the role of professor, namely the title of Mr. Dedejic and the President of the Commission, is incompatible in the opinion of the Anti-Corruption Agency, and at all easy to perform this function does not allow publishing, i.e. doing publishing and scientific and research work at the university, Professor Dedejic simply felt that he made a major contribution to launching this commission's work in a completely new way. But he believes that his work really cannot be stopped by performing this function by the end of the term of office. So that's why, for personal reasons, he said, he resigned to this place. We believe that, no matter where it is, where it is as a professor, it will indeed always be helpful for the Commission to work in this area in a better and better way. I therefore believe, when it comes to these points of the agenda, and it is the powers of the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Control of the Spending of Public Funds, I ask the Assembly and Members of Parliament to adopt these proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-11-0.u51573	Thank you very much. Dear Members of Parliament, pursuant to Articles 27 and 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure, I'd like to inform you that today the Assembly will be working after 1800 hours. Now we're moving on to the list of authorized in the order of registration. Zoltan Peck and Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-11-0.u51574	Thank you. Dear Presidents, respected ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, I would like to talk about a bill confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Hungary on amendments to the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Hungary on border control in road, rail and water transport. This proposal, which is before us, the bill, confirms the agreement signed between the two governments in Budapest on 9 February 2018. The proposal improves what was the previous proposal or the agreement, which was signed in 2012, precisely on 24 January between the two governments, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Hungary on border control in road, rail and water transport. The biggest newspaper is in article 6. Proposal for this law, which applies to Article 12(4). Agreements that are amended and read – If there are necessary personal, technical and infrastructure conditions, Contracting Parties may also authorise international traffic of passengers through a border crossing or an extension of working time, which they shall inform each other by diplomatic means. For us, the most prominent word or part of the sentence is the extension of the working time of the border crossings. This contract creates a legal and legal precondition for extending working time at border crossings operating from seven to nineteen hours. It is important to know that the length of the border between the two countries is about 175 kilometers. Around six million passengers cross the border crossings each year in one direction or another. It should be noted that by 2015 there were only five border crossings between the two countries, and this year there are already eight border crossings that work at the length of the borders between the two countries. So in the last three, four years, three new border crossings have been opened. As a border crossing opened this year seven days ago, I don't think it's even seven days ago, it's a border crossing at Baimok, Baimok-Bachalmash, which currently works from seven to nineteen hours. This is where the work was about a year, a year and a half. While the new border crossing was restored, about 2.1m euros were invested, 1.8m euros are from EU accession funds, and 300,000 euros are from the Republic of Serbia's budget. As I said, immediately this border crossing works from seven to nineteen hours and is open to passenger cars and buses that can use this border crossing. It is important to know that this border crossing from Horgos is 50 kilometers away, and about 30 kilometers from Kelebia. It's open to relieve these two border crossings. As we heard from the minister's statement that in this year, if the two governments meet, this joint meeting will discuss that this border crossing, the working time of this border crossing, will be extended to 00-24 hours and will be extended to the crossing of freight vehicles. With this, if this happens, we hope that the agreement on two governments will sign this, we will have four border crossings that will work for 00-24 hours, and that is Horgos-Rescu, Kelebia-Tompa, Bačka Breg-Hercegsanto and Baimok-Bachalmash. Another important news has been highlighted in this agreement – that in this year it will begin to build another border crossing, which is a border crossing in the north of Banat. It's about Rabe-Kibekhaza, who'll be doing the same thing from seven to 19 hours in the morning. It should be pointed out here that Kikinda with this border crossing will have the shortest relationship to connect to a network of European highways. If true, with these nine border crossings built, the difference between the two border crossings will fall below 20 kilometers, which is very favourable for the population and for the economy of our entire country, and especially for the northern part of our country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-11-0.u51575	Thank you. The word is Vojislav Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-11-0.u51576	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we Serbian radicals don't usually pay any special attention to criticism coming from the West against our country, our people or current regimes. Sometimes, however, there is little to take care of, and I am referring to the latest survey "Economist", which placed Serbia in a country of incomplete democracy. There are four categories of those that apply to the existing countries, the worst is, of course, authoritative society, under two hybrid regimes that involve non-liberal democracy, I don't know what it is, how democracy can be a non-liberal, incomplete democracy and complete democracy. They've placed us in the regimes of incomplete democracy. And what arguments can they make? There's about 60 indicators they're handling. Let us see how the National Assembly contributes to its work by creating a negative picture of the democratic regime in Serbia. We have a very democratic constitution, there's no doubt about it, but we don't have a democratic spirit. One of the reasons why our work as a National Assembly cannot be considered democratic is that it is enough for the congregation majority to decide that a single debate on 40 points of the agenda is being held and that these agenda points have absolutely no interrelationships. There are many more reasons why Maja Gojkovic would say these are the shortcomings of the Rules of Procedure, but this Assembly has been working for three years, an ambush, and has not joined the creation of its own Rules of Procedure. The fact that it's someone's Rules of Procedure from before, and we stick to it for us, is no excuse whatsoever. But it's not worth talking about. I speak at every session, the congregation majority don't usually listen. I've chosen several laws that are on the agenda today to tear them apart, so that in a legal sense, there's no stone left on the stone of them, and I know you'll adopt them because that's how someone else decided, and you perform as soldiers, whether parties, whether or not something else, and don't take care how many of you as free personalities in your elemental human dignity that threatens you. Here I have before me a bill confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the United States. This is something that can have catastrophic consequences, which should never be ratified in the National Assembly, because then the moaning will be in vain. The document stipulates that all persons of Serbian citizens who have committed the crime can be delivered from 1901 to today. So it has retroactive validity. Criminal law avoids any retroactive validity, however, one of the basic principles of constitutional order is trampled here. It does not take into account that Serbia and the United States' criminal justice systems are very different. For example, there is a death penalty there, and there is no punishment in us, so it is said here: there will be a guarantee that no death penalty will be imposed. When someone gets to the U.S. court, no more guarantees are valid. The executive power of the United States cannot limit any of its courts in this regard. There the court is above the executive authority in a concrete court procedure, and then the executive power can still get by the nose which concluded a contract that cannot be carried out. Furthermore, this contract will apply only to Serbian citizens. Of course, first there will be a request for the extradition of suspects for the murder of the Genesis brothers. Not those suspected by the Serbian authorities, there has been some investigation, some hearings, etc., but those suspected by the Americans will be extradited. Here one member is said, in Article 21, that this contract will apply to crimes committed before, as well as after its entry into force, but leaves the discretionary right of the Serbian executive authority not to apply Article 3 to criminal acts committed before 1 January 2005, a discretionary right is left. And who in Serbia will dare, if this agreement is ratified and the Americans say, give us that and that police general, because they are suspected of killing the Genesis brothers? Who will dare to say, well, we have a discretionary right to reject you? Besides myself, I don't see any man in that state who's capable of it. That's why we can't accept this. In Serbia, absolute obsolescence for the most serious crime, the obsolescence of criminal prosecution, is 25 years old. It's not about war crimes and crimes against humanity. There's no such limit in Americans. They've been running crimes for murder, for rape, for various other things. What do we do? The Being Brothers weren't killed in the war, they weren't killed in the war zone, they didn't even have complete uniforms on them when they were caught. They're being led by an illegal border crossing procedure and nothing else. Then some crazy head decided to be liquidated, no use to me as a people and state we don't have since that liquidation, but today we are in a position not to deliver those wanted by America for this crime. There is one crime for which there is no such restriction. It's the burning of the US embassy in Belgrade, the stoning, and then maybe accidentally burning. If it occurs to us that we are asking for the extradition of those who ordered the bombing of the Chinese Embassy building in Belgrade, of course, the U.S. government will laugh. If they ask that those who have ordered the stones of the embassy be delivered, who will they ask? Don't pretend you don't know. Boris Tadic, Boyislav Kostunica and Tomislav Nikolic. The three of them agreed to pull out the police and rock the embassy. That's what Tomislav Nikolic told me. I've given consent from The Hague, by phone, I can deliver myself. God didn't give them God, did he, Dragan Karic? And you see now, Tadic got scared and he ran away to Romania faster or better the same day. He realized it could have deeper implications. Kostunica withdrew police, an embassy stoned, a man who came to the organisation of the SRS from Novi Sad, died on the first floor of the embassy, climbed to conquer the embassy and died. We don't know how. The embassy was on fire. You can't condemn the guys who threw rocks if you don't judge those who let them do it, even if I drop it for a second, you order this. What are you going to do now? Will you deliver them to America? It's not my fault for any of them to be delivered, but it's the honor of the state. To tell the Americans, we will criminally punish those who stoned the US Embassy in Belgrade when you criminally punish those who bombed the Chinese embassy. I guess that's the way a normal state should react, and no, we're obeying the U.S. judicial authorities here now. Look, there is no such division among Americans, the strict division of executive, legislative and judicial authorities that we Europeans have learned about. With them, this is all done by the executive authority, until the court is reached. The FBI is part of the Justice Department, you know that? The D.A.'s office is the Department of Justice. There's no prosecutor's advice, so the D.A.'s company, so the association, then the D.A. can go to foreign embassies, as is the case with us, and a little bit more independence. The Americans don't have that. With us, little or no prosecutors at the U.S. Embassy, at the British embassy, for their own reasons, even the judges. What was Nata Mesarovic doing? She illegally sentenced the suspects to the murder of Djindjic. He ran out of status based on which she could judge and continued to judge. On the other hand, the unauthorized methods extorted recognition from Zvezdan Jovanovic, under beatings and under the threat that his family would be killed, he signed a confession dictated by police General Rodoljub Milovic. When it was all over, attorney Vesna Radomirovic was brought in to falsely sign that she attended the entire hearing and was led against in the bar and allowed to become obsolete. But the trial was against the law, and so were many other trials related to it, because a second, unsuitable blood type was established for some convicted, and I spoke to the public several times about the case of Milorad Ulemek Legion. Then the decision by the authorities shot Dusan Spasojevic and Mile Lukovic Kum, so that they wouldn't be unhappy when they start talking to the court. Who they all hung out with, who from the top of the government was their co-worker and in what crimes, how Djindjic shared money from the kidnapping of prominent Serbian rich people. That's why they were killed. Rodoljub Milovic personally killed one of them. The second police officer of the second, by order of Dusan Mihajlovic, Cedomir Jovanovic and others. Everybody knows that in the state and nobody's doing anything. The prosecution hears, the courts passive, the executive authority pretends to know nothing, and everyone knows, no one has ever denied me about it, as no one has been able to deny me about the crime of Rasim Ljajic. Here, I published a collection of documents "The New Market King of heroin Rasim Ljajic", that the police minister can no longer say he knows anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-11-0.u51577	Ambassador, get back on the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-11-0.u51578	Should I go back? What, is this an awkward subject?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-11-0.u51579	No, it's not an awkward subject, I'm not going into it, it's not on the agenda. .
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-11-0.u51580	A little more handsome to go, come on.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-11-0.u51581	Please.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-11-0.u51582	This isn't a little more convenient for you, this is worse for you than Rasim Ljajic. You see, there are still a whole series of things that are intolerable about the delivery of Serbs, as provided for in this contract, about the acceptability of documents, about the way they are accused, even Serbs can be delivered for what is a criminal offence under US law, and by our law is not a criminal offence. You know all the crimes in America? Let your mind stop. Every country in America, 50 of them, has its own judicial system and its laws that have been brought into continuity for 200 years and almost none of them are ever abolished. And now you can be prosecuted there by the law passed in 1823, and Serbia delivers you. It could be for any verbal delinquent, possibly for alleged rape, anything can be found there. That's why it's better if you don't adopt this. I know that my appeal is in vain, that you will do it according to the usual mechanism, but I said and saved my soul at least. Furthermore, we have some laws here that are intolerable, such as the proposal for a bill to confirm the agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Transport Community on the seat of the permanent secretariat of the Transport Community. What do we got here? Members of the staff of the Transport Community shall have material diplomatic status. Everything diplomats have, they have. The executive authority has not yet granted such status to the staff of the Humanitarian Russian-Serbian Centre in Nis. You won't do that because you're under pressure from the West. The West doesn't. The Americans are threatening. There's nothing here that can do. A representative of Kosovo can also have diplomatic status, here it is, placed Kosovo with a star, only where Kosovo is mentioned, and where staff is concerned, everyone has equal treatment. That's how an Albanian from Pristina who comes here to work in this secretariat will have full diplomatic immunity. That's what you wanted. And the minister who suggested this, Zorana Mihajlovic, has not yet been replaced because of that big scandal when she signed a preliminary agreement with the Americans to entrust the highway from Cačka to Pojat to US firms, 300m euros more expensive than the Chinese offer. Meanwhile, Zorana Mihajlovic traveled to London to visit, imagine, the European Integration Minister, who still exists, although Britain is leaving the European Union. He's here to turn off the light. And she met, that was the main reason for the trip, with representatives of Bechtel. Did you receive a written report, as members of the government, what did Zorana Mihajlovic do in London? (President: Time. I don't think so. You didn't get that report. I'm just finishing up right now, and I've only got one look at this proposal from the judge who flew us here today at lightning speed. No candidate for a judge has mentioned what the average grade was in law school, because last time I resented you for the number of those with six or six or six, you didn't bring it up. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-11-0.u51583	Thank you. (Vojislav Seselj: Jabba, there can be no judge if he had an average below 8 in college. The length of study is a special problem. ) The word is Maria Jevdzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-11-0.u51584	Here you go, colleague Yevdzic, ask for a word again. Until fellow Jevdzic gets a new card, do any of the other authorised representatives of the parliamentary group or bosses want a word in this debate? We'll continue in a minute. [[after breaks]] Here you go, colleague Yevdzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-11-0.u51586	The Honored Chairman, respected ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, Unity Serbia, or the Single Serbia Parliamentary Group, will support all draft laws on the agenda of today's session. We have four draft laws from the Ministry of Education and they, Mr. Sarčević, are the basis for further improving the quality of our children's education. From your work so far, Mr. Minister, I've gotten the impression that a great accent is being put on improving the efficiency of the education system, and that is another reason why Unique Serbia will support the proposed laws. The proposal for a law on preschool education, i.e. the Preschool Law, has four members and they contribute to improving the application of sublegal solutions, with a view to improving the quality of preschool education. I want to commend your ministry, which has recognised that early literacy is important for further schooling children, I think when we talk about a preschool programme and that a constant improvement in the quality of preschool institutions is necessary. It is children who learn the most in their first years of life and participate in preschool education programmes that encourage not only early learning, but also that children become positive people, have confidence, that they are capable, and that is a solid basis for further success in life. The data that only 9% of children from the poorest families and 6% of children living in Roma settlements attend kindergarten, unlike 82% of children from wealthy households, says that as a society, we must work to make kindergartens available to our children, regardless of the material condition of the families they come from. It's for us from JS one of the most important goals when we talk about preschool education. The proposal for a law on basic education and education sets out certain legal solutions of the law that entered into force in November 2017, education or school as an institution should be open to all students, but we often face the problem of inclusion in regular schooling, i.e. the problem that teachers in schools are not sufficiently educated to face a child who has developmental disorders. I don't think it's about the desire or the love of that teacher, but rather the skill, or the way to approach that child. You, through the draft law on the basics of the education system, are trying to solve the problems that arise in schools for students with disabilities in development through a program of education at the Faculty of Special Education. In fact, teachers would get the necessary skills and improve teaching methods, which is good, but I think that a period of four years to conduct educations with special pedagogues and logos is too long, because overall studies take four years, and they lack a mere methodology of work. I think it's a waste of time and money. If we want to talk seriously about basic education, I can't help but look back, in my opinion, on the biggest problem of schooling in the 21st century, which is peer violence. Even 44% of school students suffer some kind of violence. What worries me as a parent is that a normal child who suffered violence is being moved to another school. I don't think that's a good message, because that's how we teach kids to run away from problems, instead of trying to solve them again and again, and I stress that the most important thing is that cooperation between school and parents, with the support of all institutions that are relevant to this kind of problem. About two months ago, we were familiar with the case of a peak settlement in the House of High School Students in the Kingdom. It seems to me that the media took the biggest blame on the educators, but I should know that in the particular home, which I'm talking about, the night tutor comes to work at 20 hours, with him colleagues and security until 23 hours after that, the night tutor is alone until 7 a.m. and his obligation is to have complete control of the night shift, and that simplifies walking past the room, to warn in case there is noise and any suspicion that something is happening to that tutor, who is the opposite of 320 children in the home. I think that by working together, Mr. Minister, we should shape a permanent solution to this problem, which will regulate the entire day's security presence, and that would be an obligation, not an assessment of the superiors in the home. Otherwise, the House of Students in the King remains under pedagogical supervision. Immediately, a situation that has turned into peer violence has been reported to the police. The violence defense team reacted. The report was sent to the Ministry. And since day one, the Ministry has been involved in solving this problem, with the full support of the home collective itself. We are constantly talking about the student’s relationship to the student, and we rarely mention the student’s relationship to the teacher. Unfortunately, I think that the authority of teachers is lost somewhere and that often teachers suffer a kind of violence from students and in such situations the teacher cannot get away from teaching, his hands are tied. In some schools, there is an internal co-operation between teachers and parents, when a teacher invites a parent to pick up his child. I think it's just an apparent solution to the problem and that we need to systemically solve it. For example, in Finland, a teacher can suspend his student behavior from teaching for a certain period of time. With that in mind, I think that we too need through the legal regulations of teachers to enable that, in case they can't keep teaching uninterrupted, they can have the right to, except that the student who interferes with the teaching of the educator can also give him a certain kind of sanctions. Minister Sarčević, in his opening statement, you said the Ministry is trying to monitor the dynamics of life and everyday modernisation. Therefore, I have no doubt that in the coming period you will also have high-quality and constructive draft laws that will continue to reform Serbia's education by following European standards. We're going out with the Bill of Weapons to meet the citizens to give them extra time to obtain documentation for the legal possession of weapons. This proposal for the law showed how important it is to introduce arms into legal flows. I must also commend the announcements to amend the Law on Criminal Procedures that come from the Ministry of Justice and which will strengthen criminal policy, which will certainly increase the security of our citizens and reduce illegal weapons possession. Otherwise, Serbia is in a high position by the number of illegal weapons. I must point out that this is not only a problem in recent years, it is a decades-long problem, and it is the result of war events in the former Yugoslavia's space. We also have a large number of international agreements on the agenda of this session, which tells us that Serbia is leading a very active foreign policy. I would like to commend the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Minister Dacic, who, with the whole government and President Vukic, is very actively working to improve Serbia's position in the world, as is the increasing number of countries that are withdrawing recognition. the countries of Kosovo. Once again, I would like to stress that the parliamentary group in the voting day will support all proposed laws on the agenda of this session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-11-0.u51587	Thank you. Do any of the presidents of the parliamentary groups or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? The People's Messenger George Komlensky has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-11-0.u51588	Thank you. Comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen, from today's agenda of this session, I will specifically look back at what I think shows a debt of attention to the state to students and students, and these are amendments to the Law on Student and Student Standard. The fact is that there has been a need for legal harmonisation of this law due to changes in all the laws that have been changed so far in the field of education, meaning, from basic system, to individual laws, but the fact that what is important is that compliance is not only about legal harmonisation, but also about student and student standards in practice is also about the harmonisation of standards in the Republic of Serbia. The fact is that lately according to the data that I have, and they're probably a minister far more famous than I am, a lot more resources are being laid down and invested in both the facilities and in the conditions in which students and students live. Of course, it is also legal regulation, which will create conditions for certain regulations, regulations, etc., something that should further stimulate and ensure that the right to the cheapest, not to say the free use of all of these benefits that students who meet certain conditions and students have for as long as it belongs to them and to the greatest extent possible for those who need it, of the weakest and least protected social categories, who have managed to create their own position in competitions, in the distributions to receive a student or student room or accommodation in one of these capacities. It's very important that this government gradually but certainly interrupted the discontinuity of those, how can I say, most students who were illegals, semi-legislators, in fact, those who made it impossible for worthy and good students to live and work in a satisfying way in an environment that is not their natural environment, which is not their family, to have the conditions to show themselves completely. We've heard that under this law 63 institutions of different character fall. I sincerely hope that the Ministry will make some efforts to help Obrenovac form the 64th facility in Obrenovac. Namely, the Agricultural-chemical school, as one of the best schools in the region in the Republic of Serbia, rated so-called. With an external rating of four, which all the standards set before that kind of school met with more than 75% really deserves one due attention, which the local self-government has shown. We also expect from the city of Belgrade, of course, with all the support of the ministry, because it deserves it. So at the end of 2018, in order to continue to build and complete the completion of that school, where more than 100 students are learning from a non-pregnant environment today, even better and even more favourable conditions need to be created to get as high quality housing as possible for agriculture. I'll remind you that a similar home and school exist, let me say, on the other side of Sava and Danube, which belong to so-called. The PKK, or that area, but let's not forget the tradition of "Dragan Markovic", which thanks to those who ruled until 2012. But what was left behind "Dragan Markovic" as a company that also fed Belgrade and Obrenovac and Serbia and remained a kind of tradition, which apparently found good soil in an extremely good and quality collective that exists and works in Obrenovac. At the moment, I think the Ministry could help in that part when it comes to speeding up the very procedure of declaring public interest for land necessary for expropriation, of course, within what part of the participation in financing would be, and local self-government, the kind of public interest it is in Obrenovac, which recognises the needs and needs of its city, but also of all other cities in the environment and the need to provide this school with the best conditions for work, will indeed do everything possible. I hope that it will be one of the projects as a demonstration of interest, how serious local self-government, along with the serious authority in the city of Belgrade, will be one of the appropriate approaches of the Ministry of Education can solve a problem that has otherwise stood for no reason since 2008. The fact is that those floods of Obrenovac have been thrown out of the track, that a lot of time has been lost at the reconstruction of the now existing facility of the Agricultural-chemical school, but to forget that period as something ugly and that is precisely the motive and reason for us to speed up here further, as far as the procedures are concerned, of course, all in accordance with the law, but also with the will to get rid of it as soon as possible. As for other laws in this area, I just need to add one more thing, you can see in practice shifts, when it comes to the contents of certain textbooks. What I was talking about at earlier sessions, I have to say that these are shifts, but to be honest, I expect to put it even more first, especially now with the creation of digital textbooks. You know, I still think it's totally inadmissible that certain things, especially when it comes to the history of the Serbian people, the history of the Republic of Serbia in different ways in different textbooks, used by our founding students or high school students, are not treated equally. To say the least, I expect the Ministry to pay more attention in that part, to really work on creating mechanisms, that the freedom that educational institutions or schools have in choosing textbooks that will benefit are even more controlled in terms of the quality of textbooks used, of course not in any other sense that would lead us in the opposite direction entirely. In addition to these laws, when it comes to education, I would really like to support the parliamentary group of the Socialist Movement, the People's Peasants' Party and the United Peasants' Party, in addition to these laws, of course, all of these laws that are now on the agenda, will heartily support the selection of new judges who are first elected to this post. New, fresh, young blood, if I may say so, full of energy. It was probably not easy for the High Council of the Judiciary to make a choice among the best, because there were too many of those who were extremely good, but I have confidence in the proposals that came from the Supreme Council of the judiciary that this is what they consider to be the most qualitative, what they think, from the field of profession, that tomorrow should join, share justice in Serbia and that the judiciary in Serbia is as effective as possible, but as independent as possible in its work, because knowledge, in addition to all other assumptions, implies certain independence. Thank you for your attention. So much for this first round of introductions. In the discussion, we'll have some other suggestions and suggestions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-11-0.u51589	Thanks, buddy. Mr. Zarko Obradovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-11-0.u51590	Thank you. Dear Ministers, the Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, dear fellow Members and colleagues, allow me to say a few words on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group on the laws which are subject to discussion of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia today. Most of the time, of course, I will address the issues, the education laws, but there will be room to say about some other laws that are also very important and are important for the development of the Republic of Serbia. In fact, education for the development of each country, including Serbia, is an immeasurable investment in education, is an investment in the future. Investment in education is an investment in everything Serbia needs today and tomorrow. It is not just a response to the need for economic development, because we need to have qualified professional labour at different levels, with different degrees of education, different competences, which can respond to labour market needs, but to invest in education and investment in preserving national identity, in everything Serbia needs to be. In order to develop, we are a small country in world terms, with a small number of inhabitants, but we are a country that is well known for quality education and I think we should continue this trend that children, who are growing up, who are learning, who are attending schools, and tomorrow and students, simply need to get as much quality education as possible, learn to think, those information and the facts that they get to know to use, so that they do not read the shorter editions of works of world-famous writers tomorrow, but to realize that our climate has extremely creative authors and that, compared to the number of citizens and the space that we cover, Serbia has a very high quality education, but also in other areas, they are very good results. I would like to commend the Ministry for reacting quickly to the changes that are taking place in the education system, the changes that follow the trend of globalization of the world, what education requirements are in the world, demands here in Serbia, but also reacts quickly if a solution in practice does not show the result that is initially believed to be possible. That is why we are still discussing these four laws today: one system-based - the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, preschool and primary education and on student and student standards. I think it's a good thing the Ministry is responding so quickly, because the system is huge: 150,000 high-school students, 900 thousand students, or 126 thousand employees, 250 thousand students. It's a huge system that just deserves to react quickly, because things can't change, that is, the system is such that it's necessary to keep up with innovation and take care of the system all the time. Of course, individual cases are often used to give an assessment of the system, but it's not a system in general. It's just a small part, a percentage of 0.0%. Of course, attention should be paid to that too, but making the system is a big deal. I am glad that Mr. Sarcevic insists on the issue of education having the proper treatment in society, but the minister is not the only one who should promote it. I think that this government has since the start of its establishment and this ruling coalition at different levels, from the president of the state, the Prime Minister and the ministers individually, persistently promote education in order to understand the importance of education for Serbia's future. In the Preschool Education Act, you have introduced the possibility of registering children, parents, guardians, water employees and electronics in the context of a single education system, which is quite logical in relation to the trends that exist at all levels. Also, I noticed that public documents can also be on the prescribed form or electronically. What is important and what you mentioned is the return of the second electoral language, or foreign language, the return of the assessment of that language in numbers. I think language competence is very important and part of the identity and personality of each student, our education system and promotes the quality of education. I must say, it's a great thing for our children to have two languages in primary school: one of the first, second of the fifth grade, that it's very good that this aspect of education, as I would say, is being completed within our system. A few years ago, I was, not a little surprised to hear that individual countries, EU member states, do not have two foreign languages at the level of primary education, but this speaks of the definition of each country. In any case, I think the minister and the ministry did well when they were able to re-evaluate this language. You mentioned reasons, and it makes sense. When it comes to this system law – the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, as the Minister also mentioned in the content of this law, a number of important things should be mentioned. It is that the Institute for the Valuation of Quality of Education and Education introduces the fourth unit. It is the Centre for Educational Technology and the need is, of course, conditioned by the development of quality digital education. Simply, that digital component should be part of the planning documents at national level. The centre has the content of its work, precisely set out in this law, the development of digital skills and competences, the development of training programmes in the field of quality education, the preparation of reports and publications. In one word, the Centre has its meaning as part of improving the quality of the education system of the Republic of Serbia. I am pleased that it is possible for this law, amendments and additions to this law, to set up resource centres for providing professional assistance to children, students and adults with developmental and disability disorders and their families and other educational and educational institutions. Simply, this is additional support for what has been started and in years before in inclusive education, and it is good that conditions must be strictly prescribed. I have seen that in the bill, the solution is that, besides the Ministry of Education and Science as a parent, it is necessary to meet the conditions, to say, and to further support, help and consent and the Ministry of Local Self-Government, that is, when I say, conditionally, professional assistance from local self-government, health and social protection, and I think it is a very important thing and it says something about our education system. When, Mr. Minister, you were talking about institutions of national importance, you were talking about these two, I think it's a real hit. It's about two educational institutions that absolutely deserve to get to be institutions of national importance. Mathematical high school, it's a story for itself, only one who follows the education system a little bit more, and what the mathematical high school does can understand the importance of the work of this mathematical high school and to what extent the mathematical high school promotes the educational system of the Republic of Serbia abroad. Children, representatives of the Mathematical High School at different levels and in the fields of mathematics, physics, information and simply in other areas are so high-quality, that many wonder how we succeed as a small country that we have such a high-quality high school. Because these figures here say they won over 500 different medals at the Balkans, the Olympics, different competitions to test the world's knowledge, and they're one model for each other. How do they do it? What fascinated me personally in some times before there is a part of the work of the Mathematical High School that is not seen in public, that the students themselves within the Mathematical High School are educating their younger colleagues, creating a collection of tasks for the younger colleagues again and developing a competitive spirit and developing one, let me say, a real struggle for knowledge within that gymnasium. I think this is a real hit. Of course, I do not want to leave out the "Jovan Jovanovic Dragon" high school in Novi Sad, as it is also an exceptional educational institution. I think it's simple that both high school and high school serve as an example. Of course, they're not the only ones, so the rest of us don't feel neglected, there's a lot of quality, and surely in the future, it's going to be a big challenge for you to determine which other educational institutions deserve to get this title, because these two high schools are something that really is to the pride of the Republic of Serbia. I've seen that, and I think it's good, that you've additionally, as I say, created additional opportunities to improve the education of children abroad, that that person who meets all the conditions that he can teach, that he may be, to say, able to do that job, of course, and to propose a competent diplomatic and consular representation. I think that's important, because our population is around the world, and there's, sometimes, there's, say, no excessive arbitration, red tape, there's got to be a solution that will help our children in different parts of the world, which plead as, let me say, part of this national identity, that they have the ability to learn our language and everything that represents part of our identity, culture and education. You've solved the question of director status, working-law status, and I think that's good, because it's caused some of the previous times of some kind of confusion. Competences of employees in schools for students with developmental disorders. You have given the possibility, the law allows for the improvement of competence and the possibility within four years of having to end all the required obligations, and I have seen that you are in the Preschool Law, or in this system, but refers to pre-school education and education, the status of certain categories of employees who are subject to the provisions of the Preschool Education and Education Act that they can continue to do this job without any consequences. In the end, about education, it's the Law on student and student standards. I think a little people, I'm convinced, unless they have some of their own, or they've been in a preschool or dorm school, or they've got some relatives, realizes how important these institutions are because in one place, I'd say, students become people, students become quality, students become competent. The work of all these institutions and student and student standards is extremely, extremely important and there is, as you yourself have said, very much. Their work is governed by the previous law, but of course there is a need to improve the law. New solutions and I see that these solutions, as I would say, have been carved to the last degree, and that's good, because all these institutions are not just about housing, feeding, but it's about educational work, work is the possibility of both scholarships and crediting students and students. I think it's a good thing that you kept those solutions to be successful, it's a great thing, that successful students, successful students simply have a reward for their efforts and for the result they achieve, that at all levels they're open doors and only the sky is the limit to their ambitions if they want within our education system, because if you have the possibility of learning in a student's home, you get a scholarship or a loan, you're good students or students, you're a college, you're back on state spending, because over 50% of the students in state schools are funded by the state, then we have the funding of master studies, funding doctor studies, and then you see exactly the vertical from the beginning to the end, and you see what for a small state, like Serbia, it means that it's the possibility that Serbia gives its children the opportunity to complete all levels of study for free, it's just a question of quality. It's a good thing getting rid of a grant and a loan all those students they have, students who have a good average. I also saw the time limit given. One word, I think it's good and I think it's a great thing that you've introduced within this law those provisions that favor missing occupations. It's a good thing that those interests that this country needs, that it is also a motivational factor for these children, that they simply choose this missing profile of interest and that they can then continue to work on this variant which is, that is, the solution provided for by this law, that each year, from changes within the market, changes the kind of occupation that is being done. It is good that in all these institutions, in addition to activities in the field of art, sports, recreational activities, information is introduced and activities in the field of informal education. It simply extends the circle of these activities and I think that this law has very good qualityd many issues that were the need of an educated system, but have not been resolved so far. Let me say a few more words about the agreement on the Permanent Secretariat's headquarters under the Transport Community Treaty, signed in Belgrade on 30 January 2019. The importance of the Southeast European Transport Community and the establishment of this Permanent Secretariat in Belgrade is that we become a regional centre and a promotion, which is of great importance for the integration of the transport markets of South Eastern European partners in the traffic area, the EU transport market. If we link the establishment of this secretariat here in Belgrade to the fact that within the co-operation process 16 plus one and the co-operation we have with China has a large number of projects in the area of infrastructure, i.e. traffic, this means that Belgrade is becoming a large, important traffic centre for the whole area, not only of the Balkans, but also of Southeast Europe. I come to the final part of today's exhibition, which is the role of Belgrade in international relations. Namely, in this agenda there are two laws relating to the abolition of visas for holders of diplomatic, official, special passports with the United Arab Emirates and the abolition of visas for ordinary passports between Serbia and Georgia, but these laws only prompt for something I want to say that Serbia has changed its position in international circumstances, thanks to the great diplomatic activity of President Vukic, Government, Foreign Minister and Deputy Prime Minister Dacic. Remember, Belgrade hosted the co-operation process "16 plus 1", remember Belgrade hosted the OSCE annual conference. Here, now our president has signed the agreement, the annual interparliamentary union conference will be this fall in Belgrade, the Mediterranean Assembly will be here in about two weeks in Belgrade. Simply, Serbia's position has been radically changed compared to some time before, and that is to be said, because these visa-free laws show Serbia's intention that the more countries have the possibility of travelling freely to their citizens, taking into account absolutely those security factors. After all, the reputation that lays Serbia also shows what happened the other day at the UN Security Council. The debate on KIM was held, our Minister Ivica Dacic spoke excellently, expressed all those views of the Republic of Serbia and took place for the first time in the last twenty years of the Security Council that all member states were unanimous in condemning both Pristina and promoting an objectively positive position and role of the Republic of Serbia. That is not strange, the Republic of Serbia and Foreign Minister Mr Dacic have had great activity in recent years. I've only seen Mr. Lavrov meet seven times last year from this year's work report by the ministry. If you take that diplomatic activity he has during the year and his presentations at the UN General Assembly and meetings with numerous statesmen of the world, add to what President Vukic is doing on this state plan, the arrival of Vladimir Putin here or the planned departure of President Vukic to the summit in China, which is the second time, plus maintaining good relations with all countries that are objectively weighing their weight in Europe, then it can be understood how important the role of the Republic of Serbia is. I think it is necessary to point out, because this important change in the role of the Republic of Serbia in international relations can result in resolving issues that are important for the future development of the Republic of Serbia and that is something that can be enjoyed, because the issues in question should be tried, left behind. The set of laws we are discussing is directed in this direction, the opening of the further development of the Republic of Serbia. The SPS parliamentary group will vote in favour of the draft laws discussed today by the Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-11-0.u51591	Thank you, colleague Obradovic. Natasa Mihailović Vacic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-11-0.u51592	I thank the chairman. Fellow Members and fellow MPs, respected ministers with associates, agreed or not, have no more important issues in one society and in one civilized country than education. Whether we agree or not, education also depends on everything else, and economics and cultures and health and our relationship to ourselves and our relationship to other people. So it depends on the entire future and the progress of one society. Knowledge is power, and education is driven by societies and civilizations. Since we have before us a set of amendments to the law in the field of education, in my presentation I will focus specifically on the roof law, i.e. changes and additions of education and education systems. My colleagues from the SDPS will discuss other legal proposals further. You are ministers in your opening presentation of the reasons for the adoption of amendments and the addition of a set of laws in the field of education and I fully respect it. When the call came, I thought at one point that the amendments and additions of the law, especially this roof arrived somewhat too quickly, which we adopted in October 2017. On the other hand, if education is understood as the most important issue, as I have already stated, in every civilized and well-organized country, then we should also respect the fact that science is changing, that the world is changing in front of our eyes, that technology is changing day by day, and that it is therefore necessary that education laws follow what is happening around us. We've been wanting to admit it for a long time, whether we want to admit it or not, we didn't respect reality. From the previous state, Yugoslavia has inherited a good network of schools. Later, the country fell apart, the wars followed, the sanctions, so total collapse and devastation of the system of values, and then with social changes, we started to build up the system that you're relying on today. The proposed amendments and additions to the Law on the Fundamentals of the Education and Education System have been approached with the aim of adapting the concept of the development of the entire education system to the observed needs in the practices and conditions in which it can be implemented. In practice, it has been made clear and you have repeated this several times, that new trends and solutions aimed at general development, improving and transforming education in line with the needs of society, respecting the traditional values of Serbia's education system, as well as monitoring trends in the development of the European and world system of education and education of developed countries. I'm interested in ministers because of the public, and I think it's extremely important that we explain exactly what the traditional education system means? Why am I asking this? For the simple reason that most citizens under traditional education consider free education which has long not been or education ex department. Early and primary education is the cornerstone of the entire education system. In fact, the mission is to educate all its citizens in quality quality, to basically describe students from all areas so that they can connect and apply knowledge in later education, but also in life itself. One of the important tasks of education is to develop knowledge, skills, attitudes, skills and values that are necessary and necessary for modern life in the modern world. This includes respecting the ageing characteristics, needs and specific personalities of children through the care and respect of diversity and their different needs and interests. The goal of education and I believe that we will agree there must be a man, a student, a society, a family. We educate children in schools to be citizens who contribute in various ways to their community. People who are critical of, question themselves and the world around them with open eyes, there is no functional state without functional citizens, and we are creating functional citizens right through the process of education. Still a valid strategy, I will stress only that its 2020 deadline and I believe that concrete activities have already begun to develop a new strategy. The existing strategy has defined the desired goal, and whether we have chosen the right path to go to it and if we have planned it well, we will see in the years to come, through generations that will be educated as already practice and reality in developed countries. It opens up an extremely important possibility, that, finally with compulsory primary education, it must become a secondary education. It takes a change of constitution and I believe that it will soon become our reality and that secondary education will also become a commitment. If that doesn't happen in this assembly of parliament, I believe it will happen in the near future anyway, in whichever Parliament they call it. One of the more frequent children's thinking, even in primary school, is that they view study and employment globally. Are we accordingly setting up and developing a system of education and establishing strategic development plans for education, to the greatest extent that we will be compatible with European and world trends in education, thus also with regard to the quality of life and the planning of a personal future? As I was preparing for this debate, I spoke with experts, teachers, teachers, parents to avoid subjectivity as a parent of school children and objectively consider the subject and issue of education. Sometimes it seems to me that critics too are not often aware of the depth of the problem, that is to say, to look at it from different perspectives and different personal experience and level of knowledge on such an important issue. I'm going to give a banal example - if my child has an A, I'm fine, and about the quality of it, it's important that the book or the diploma says it's an A. It is precisely the quality of the knowledge and functionality of this knowledge that society needs and what is the point of education. In any case, I respect and respect the views and views of all directly involved in the implementation of the law in the education system, whether or not I agree with them personally. And, as I believe that respect and respect are key to understanding and dialogue in all areas of life and work, it somehow seems to me that in education it is even more important, so these are exactly two key words for the overall system of education and, of course, for this roof that regulates other laws in that area. What makes me particularly happy is about a member of the 12th member of the 83rd current law, which prescribes that the Mathematical High School in Belgrade and the "Jovan Jovanovic Zmaj" high school in Novi Sad are institutions of national importance. I absolutely and completely support this proposal. I can't help but wonder at the same time, respecting all the specificities of the two schools, especially the special talents of the children who are enrolled in them, how much more water will go through the other schools, both primary and secondary, in Serbia to get closer to those two schools, at least in terms of developing an active relationship with knowledge, critical and creative spirit, connecting different subjects, etc.? In addition to the outstanding results and successes achieved by the children of the Mathematical High School and High School in Novi Sad from the fields of mathematics, physics, information, history, biology, geography, these children also achieve exceptional results in competitions from foreign languages, Serbian language and literature, chess, perform awards and in acting, reciting, sports, chorus singing, and even in debate. We also come to the assessment of students who further specify this amendment and the addition of the law. For me, grading is actually the most important element and the most sensitive element of the education system and it does not serve punishment, intimidation, child demeaning, is not a disciplinary measure when we talk about knowledge. It's a measure of the value of the entire human effort to make life meaningful at any moment and to be covered by the will to move forward, whether it's a child in a preschool facility, a first child of six and a half years old, or a doctor. And, to conclude, no matter what we do and do in education, we need an education for the 21st century so we don't fall into the trap that the most general impression of the quality of education in the general public, which is all of us users of the education system, is the social and school horn that ignores personality, and improves obedience and mediacritality, as the great Duško Radovic said in his own time. In voting day, the Social Democratic Party of Serbia will support the proposed changes and additions to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-11-0.u51593	Thank you. The word has been made by Minister Mr. Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-11-0.u51594	Since several MPs have referred to the amendments and amendments to the laws we have now presented here, I will only mention a few sentences, and you know that change and change in the system of education are very slow. It means that every mention of Finland, and everything else, has required two years of preparation and eight years of work. In Serbia, no one gives you that much time, so I think we're already two years from now and a little stronger than we've established, and if nothing more than the grades we've received now on the achievement of the reforms are over 95%, and that's the information I've given in the Svetosavian speech. That was very difficult, because we had to go to all the 100% realization of the strategy that a colleague knows, that the good part was excellently written, without the accompanying documents of action plans. So we managed to get it out and that strategy is a good basis. It's just two teams of strategies for 2030, where a lot of what we're talking about right now is just moving on. What you could also follow, which is the result that education has shown, and that is the new Duing business list that is valued according to the potential of human capital that has a country and is thus measured from small ones. Recently, Serbia took 27th place in the world. It's usually the 27th place on these tests, which our youngsters at the first stage of primary school achieve. We've brought down an educated level even lower to preschools, and here we've now created an extremely good program that UNICEF considers to be one of the three best in Europe. They are also called the popular "Year of the Year of Takeoff". So our goal is to really through outcomes, through that application of acquired knowledge the quality of education in Serbia is very quickly seen. Our next year is reform second and sixth, second high school, so we attacked all three levels of education at the same time. I certainly use the opportunity to commend my colleagues, who, expecting even better their status through the Law of Salutations, who will be hopefully by the end of this year, have applied to extensive training. Twenty-six thousand people are trained in one year. So, an external rating is being introduced, a license is being introduced for everything that's been done. That can't help but score. I'll agree with you, we'll try, at least while I'm in office or the Assembly, that when I change the Constitution, I'm looking for a high school obligation, and even what my colleague Komlenski said, really, a network of dormitories is very important. It must reflect the reality of all these needs that we have on various terrains, so these days there are also school network acts and a series of other things that are inevitable in order for this to happen. So, with a full pair of teams of the Ministry of Education working and we were two years ago, passing these laws, even being someone who estimated he couldn't do it at that speed, we actually digitized it much faster than we expected, and that now caused us to have to adapt all of these further regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-11-0.u51595	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-11-0.u51596	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the SNS parliamentary group led by the strong support we provide for a modern and successful country building policy supports all the good consequences of this policy, a policy personally established by the President of the Republic, Aleksandar Vucic, a policy conducted by governments whose headquarters is the SNS. So, driven by this support we feel and provide, we also support the proposed laws. Starting with the proposed agreements that are standard, bilateral agreements or protocols, or agreements with equal obligations for both sides, starting with those concerning extradition, but also those concerning facilitating travel for citizens, visa elimination for different categories of passports, those that make it easier to travel from one country to another and those that allow our country to access the necessary important infrastructure, you can count on our support in this regard. We pay particular attention to the proposed legislation in the field of education and culture, because we see the direct good consequences of that policy that we support, the consequences of adequate care for our education system, our students, our students, and thus building a future for this country, building a future based on knowledge, based on work, results and competences and investing in this sector. This country has already shown an enviable level in years behind us. The example works, for reconstruction, construction and expansion, as equipment for pupils and students' homes so far, more than 11m euros have been allocated in just the last few years, for the needs of school arrangements, primary and secondary, more than 22m euros and a halfm euros. The apartments for young researchers are also completed. Already in office are those in Belgrade, and the facility in Kragujevac was built. It was built, or restored 109 different facilities for schools and kindergartens. More than 1,600 different institutions are connected by the Internet and the internet is free of charge. It's a reality at a time when Alexander Vucic, SNS and the governments we support are taking care of this country. It hasn't happened in years behind us. The accelerated modernization is also seen through the formation of so-called. IT departments all over our country. So far over 40, perhaps over 50 such departments have been formed in numerous cities. When we know all this and when we have it in mind, in these laws that we are discussing today, we recognize the continuation, continuity of this and this kind of serious and responsible policy. The example works, through the proposal contained in the Law on Fundamentals of the Education and Education System, which implies that something new and important is being introduced, the Centre for Educational Technology, a centre that is directly in charge of making good quality digital content, that quality digital education in this developing country, that we continue to modernize into which we have greatly stepped up, to show that we are able not only to compensate for lost in decades behind us, but also to compete with the world, to catch up with it wherever we may be lagging behind, and we can overcome it in many ways, and in this sense those provisions that enable the realisation of a unique education system based on the concept of a unique educational number, modern, modern, efficient system, and once again, of those governments that support SNS. In the same proposal, I also welcome the intention to carry out in practice the monitoring and measurement of the impact of qualifications on employment, i.e. the impact of what we provide to students in education on what they will do tomorrow, with a clear intention that what they will do tomorrow corresponds to exactly what they have been trained for. The issue of employment in our country, as you know, is a top priority for Alexander Vukic and the SNS. These days, within the campaign "Future of Serbia", Aleksandar Vukic is visiting all the districts in our country and talking to citizens everywhere, in every city, in every municipality he visits, about what has been done in this country over the past few years, but also about plans and agreements for further work, for what we will do together in the period ahead. Citizens gathering in thousands are proud to point out that more than a hundred factories, that more than a hundred new production plants that have been established in the previous few years of gold are worth this country. More than a hundred thousand people received new jobs, jobs that were not there, before good and valuable, successful people, who, together with Alexander Vukic, worked on these things, accepted jobs and made sure that we got new factories, new production plants and agreed with Serbian citizens in each of the municipalities, in each of the cities that he has visited so far and will be confirmed in all those places that will visit further, new hundreds and more than a hundred, may be our common plan and our common goal, factories and production plants in the years ahead. Among other things, we will achieve this through these measures, by monitoring the effects of what we provide as a programme for education, for education, for training, for skills, what the effects of this are on what our hardworking students and hardworking students will be able to provide on the labour market and what they will achieve there. You've heard, Mr. Minister, that's what everyone said today, one of the measures proposed and the introduction of a category of institutions of national importance is thought of schools. Under the bill, this status is foreseen for the Mathematical High School in Belgrade and the Jovan Jovanovic Dragon High School in Novi Sad, therefore, of clearly undisputed two schools that represent this country in the best possible way wherever they appear, about two schools that are highly valued in the world for good reason and that absolutely deserve this status. On this proposal, we, as a parliamentary group, congratulate and invite us to begin today to think together about how we can help each and every other school. Is it to find some solutions, mechanisms to provide or further help these schools hire only the best, most experienced, most important fit that will enable students to be even better, because it is certainly a lot of talented children, capable children and children who always bring important qualities and important results for this country? What can we do to help them be even better and to represent us just as great as they've done so far? Is it possible that through a particular concept to enable them accommodation capacity for these students or to provide even better conditions within the existing ones? We should think about it together today, among other things, because we are also dealing with these issues at this session, which is what the Law on Student and Student Standard introduces additional quality in these categories. So, on what we can give our students, our students as they learn, how can we help them to do this important job for themselves, for our families, but also for a complete society and for all the citizens of this country, they master in the best possible way that tomorrow they can give to everyone I have led to do the best they can. In this law, care about missing professions is introduced even during schooling. One more thing to praise, we take care of what this country needs and we take care of it already today. This kind of concern wasn't in the years behind us, it wasn't in decades behind us. Then when we introduced the concept of dual education we said – we care about forming students, students who will be ready to accept jobs tomorrow as soon as they finish their education, who will know that they are doing concrete work immediately, thus becoming more competitive, thus getting to work faster, thus making immediate results, once again, and for themselves, their families, their environment, but also for society as a whole. This bill of law is precisely on the trail of such ideas. Increase the number of scholarship users, one more thing we welcome. So today, thanks to a serious and responsible relationship, the state is in a situation where there is no crisis in the budget, that for the third year in a row there is surplus, which was unimaginable at the time of those, you know already which, famous geniuses, such as Dragan Gilas, Vuk Jeremic, those Ljatics from Dvora, when the year-to-year financial year ended with a deep minus, when we had hundreds of billions of measured minuses. Today we end the third year in a row with plus in the register and today, thanks to this very responsible behavior and that result, we can take care of people in a much better way, including students, by now giving them more scholarships than they ever had, and these scholarships are now more in the amount than they have ever been, especially at the time of those geniuses mentioned. Law on the Serbian Literature Association. It is an important institution, an institution that has immeasurable importance for the spread of enlightenment and the establishment of culture in our people. Correct me if I'm wrong, Mr. Minister, for decades no one has thought of giving that institution the opportunity to be financially supported, and everyone knows the importance of this institution, everyone knows that what it does can't be measured by commercial parameters, that it does a lot of things for this country, can't expect even the money invested to pay back, let alone make a profit. It's not what she's interested in, and our interest as a society is that she does what she does and we help her do it in a good way, by giving her budget support. That's what we're doing today. No one's thought of it in decades. Also, through the formation of their archives and their libraries. For the first time as a legal solution, this occurs today and we can all really be proud of it together, as well as the fact that two laws refer to the full membership of our country of the Republic of Serbia in an organisation such as CERN. At the end of last year, Serbia became a full member and this data itself means a lot, if it is known that CERN is an international organisation that, as a direct product of all that it has done decades ago, has given some of the most significant scientific results, some of the most significant scientific discoveries on the planetary level in the field of fundamental research, experiments with elementary particles, this organisation is unprecedented. It's a great honor for a country, especially a country that's not big, we're not such a big country to become a full member. Serbia deserved it, Serbia achieved it, the only one of the former states of the former Great Yugoslavia. And otherwise, even many EU countries today cannot be praised for being full members. Countries that are not EU members who have become full members there, along with Serbia, would still be Israel, Switzerland and Norway. And no one can say it's bad company. On the contrary. When it comes to research, when it comes to science, a hundredm euros are already being allocated today to support good and important projects, related to this particular area. A hundredm euros today, thanks to this serious and responsible behaviour, that surplus in the budget, once again, to the good result of that policy established by Aleksandar Vukic, SNS and the government, which we are working together with our partners, can be singled out. It used to be absolutely unimaginable. To set them apart for what? To expand the capacity of the Science and Technology Park in Belgrade to build such a park in Nis, to build such a park in Novi Sad, to build a "Dajta" centre in Kragujevac, to build a centre in Novi Sad, which will be an example for so-called "Dajta" centre in Novi Sad". European excellence, for building scientific and technological parks that are planned both in Borca and Smederev. So to build those capacities that this country, which this people once could only dream of. And with all that, to build new college buildings, to build new institute buildings. The case works, the Institute of Physics. It's a relationship to the future that we're proud of, it's a relationship to the future of this country where we're ready to work together day and night, if necessary, to work seriously, including working in the National Assembly. And it will never, but never, be able to compete with these representatives of Gilas, Jeremic, their Dvora and the rest of the yellow company, and you know who I mean now, who here are something like boycotting or simulating a boycott of the work of the National Assembly, while we deal with these laws. As we deal with issues that are important for the future of the country, they are being arranged, at the moment, I think, by the five of them, in the hall of the National Assembly. They called them five, so that you, citizens of Serbia, know some kind of parallel parliament. So as soon as the first three get down to some coffee or a good lunch at the congregation restaurant, it looks like they're gonna run out of quorum. These five, as well as all others who belong there, did not, of course, give up receiving from the National Assembly, as they did not give up receiving from municipalities in which committees or from the city of Belgrade were, there are also city council members among them, such as neither the daily nor the travel expenses, as they did not give up any housing fees. So when it comes to the National Assembly's cash register, they're not boycotting anything. But they're boycotting work. Why? Well, so that we don't have to discuss these issues with each other, so that we don't have to deal with education and our relationship with the future. Because what they offer, that policy of the past and the politics of the gallows, can never match what we're talking about today. What is their relationship to education, those who parade Serbia wearing gallows, and here simulate some kind of boycott of everything other than the cash register? Here, to hear the words, that the citizens of Serbia hear the words of their representative on that famous truck, on which they do not have the guts to climb either Djilas or Jeremic, or Obradovic, because they know they would be carved. They send someone else from time to time. And here's what they told us just two days ago that their relationship to education is in the country. Some kind of Vidojkovic, whoever it was, told the law school, about the prestigious Faculty of Law in Belgrade, that it was a litter of incredible smells, incredible scum and a litter of crime. And he added that there are a lot of jerks out there. So this is the relationship between Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic, these Dvora and the rest of the yellow enterprise towards education, higher education or education, however you will, in the Republic of Serbia. It's their relationship to our educational institutions. The difference is more than clear. She's clear to people who look at us from the side. Today, we also mentioned some rankings that talk about how Serbia is listed, so "Economist", "Economics Index" and, in order to make it clear to Serbian citizens, this index looks like this, in the years when Djilas, Jeremic, Obradovic and them alike burned and burned this country, this "Democracy Index" assessed by some people from London, some experts who have nothing to do with us and cannot be said to be fond of us, on the contrary. So, estimates 6.33 - 2010, 2011, 2012. Since 2013, the level of democracy in Serbia, based on the opinion of the "Economist", has been higher, each year a better ranking of the country. Now it's the second year in a row of 6,41. What we do in education, Mr. Minister, also affects how the world sees us. Another index, called the Human Freedoms Index, is published by the “Kayto Institute”, “Fraiser Institute”, “Liberale” Institute of the “Fridrich Neuman Foundation”, therefore again institutions that no one can say are politically favored, but on the contrary. They say that in this country, the regulation of the issue of the establishment and functioning of educational and sports and cultural institutions has been assessed today by an estimate of 10 and 10 years back, and 10 years before it. But at the time of these great geniuses who boycotted everything but couples who boycotted work and didn't boycott privileges, it was 7.5. When you look at total human freedoms, in their time it's grades 7, 1, 7,07 and 7,01. Today is 7.35. It's getting better, both economic freedoms and personal freedoms. That's how the world sees us. As Serbian citizens see this, Serbia's citizens say it unequivocally every time and these days when in thousands of them are thrilled to welcome Alexander Vukic, they agree on the future of Serbia with him and when they go to elections and give absolute support, 50, 55, 60 and more percentages for the lists on which the name Alexander Vukic is located. That is why we have a duty to these people to support good solutions, to work together to modernise the country, to fight for new jobs and to fight for knowledge and perspective. And, Mr. Minister, let's mark all this symbolically this year, among other things, by raising our national flag outside Cerna's headquarters in Geneva. Once more support and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-11-0.u51597	Thank you, colleague Orlic. Since none of the presidents of the groups, or authorized representatives, want a word anymore, we are going to the list for discussion. The word has a colleague, Ana Karadzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-11-0.u51598	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a set of laws in the field of education. First of all, I would like to stress that the PS-NSS-US parliamentary group, in voting day, will support this proposal. Education is a pillar of our society's development and I am glad that as such it is recognised by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, by the Resort Ministry and that all segments of education that we are talking about today simply come to firm feet, and reforms carried out in recent years are very important. You say it's slow to do, or that reforms are slow to implement, because it's just like that in education, but we already see that there are great results. It's about quality, first of all. One of the goals is for the quality of our education to be in the ranks of highly developed countries. First of all, I would stress the importance of the amendment and the addition of the Law on Student and Student Standard, because through this law it will be more effective to provide support, I think of those material, students and students, and they will be better rewarded, because they are students who are advanced, but also those who have certain material difficulties in studying, they will in some ways be better supported and better able to complete their studies better. It is also important that the ministry pays great attention to students with special needs, inclusive measures and dual education. You know, that's good. It is good when you create a solid foundation and when it is seen that you are working in the service of citizens, and when it is seen that you are not working in the service of some foreign embassies and foreigners, you are doing only in the service of what is our greatest competitiveness in Serbia, which are human resources, these are our students and children, who should be educated in the best possible way in order to bring the country to its feet tomorrow. On the other hand, we have a paradoxical situation here. We have a situation where the opposition has so much potential for education, that every time we have some supplements on the agenda, they want to supplement some education law, and today they're gone. Look at the part of the hall where they are, it's absolutely empty. Especially Alexandra Jerkov, who is usually a great education fighter. She's not here today. She didn't come here to discuss it with you, to tell you what she thinks is bad, but she's probably doing it there in front of the press, etc. So they're not involved and they don't want to be involved, they don't want to work, but they haven't given up their salaries, they haven't given up their sheets, they haven't given up their travel expenses, they haven't given up primarily certain assembly committees, they're traveling abroad, because they get a chance to talk to foreign officials, they're muddying Serbia and they're destroying Serbia's legitimacy, which is certainly not an idea. They're boycotting the session, but the streets aren't boycotting. They remember in 2000, as they thought, that they came to power, and they think they can do it the same way today. This is not how it is done today, because the government of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, and we all work here for the benefit of citizens and elections is coming to power. I, first of all, want to express my satisfaction as a mother, because I think this education system is very good and I want my child to grow up and be educated in a country like this. But, on the other hand, as a woman, I'm very afraid, because what's been going on these past months and how women are being insulted is really scandalous. They talked about it right, called for the Prime Minister's hang, and then those hangers came to the street. After that, we had further verbal violence, there was talk of the President of Parliament, etc., and later we had physical violence on the streets of Luciana, where an SNS activist was beaten. On the one hand, I am afraid, because they have no borders, and on the other hand I want to tell women in Serbia that the government of the Republic of Serbia and that the competent institutions are working on, that they are doing very well that there is zero tolerance in Serbia when we talk about violence and that the future of Serbia, which Alexander Vukic is propagating and working on, is much stronger than all this violence and their desire for power. That is why I really think there is no reason for fear and that Serbia will be a more and more secure country in which all children will want to live and in which they will want to be educated by their parents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-11-0.u51599	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-11-0.u51600	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, gentlemen of the ministers present here, don't look too much at the fact that there is no opposition. Our people say, "Who is not there without him?" But to you and the regime of Alexander Vukic, the opposition is the SRS. So you know, the ones who aren't there are the ones who know why. And the Ministers here, and you, Mr. Jovicic, because you're authorized for some six-seven points, let me tell you, we can't tell you what we neither notice nor citizens of Serbia. We will tell you a few of the facts that we see together with the citizens of Serbia, because their representatives who are not exactly what we could hear, and by the way Mr. Sarcevic, so we asked you to resign ourselves, we asked for the reconstruction of the government, so we are the opposition that, once again, reminds the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the regime of Aleksandar Vucic, but we are not opposition to Serbian citizens. Now, Mr. Minister, you say nice, life is faster than law. I guess the team would justify their frequent stay here in the National Assembly and that makes sense. Education is something that is the starting point for a grown-up man, a citizen, who should assume responsible functions on behalf of Serbian citizens and lead this country into a prosperous and better future. It's not just citizens gatherings, it's some new ideas and some new solutions. But I tell you, Mr. Minister, MPs of the assembly majority are even faster than life. You say the law is faster, life faster than the law, and I say that they are faster than life, because the 40 points of the agenda that we need to discuss at this session of the Assembly, I cannot say that they are not in accordance with the positive regulations in the jurisdiction of this Parliament. Is the priority of this order, that's the second question now? You know well that it is certainly not a priority and we never criticise what is not for criticism and what is not for condemnation, but of course what, together with citizens, we notice that we are missing, missing and needing to change positively. You, Mr. Sarcevic, since you were the first authorised representative on behalf of the government to speak and represent these four laws, you are in a very serious situation. Even after three years in the government of the Republic of Serbia, you haven't solved the burning problems, and the burning problems are who owns us diplomas of high school institutions, who teach us both to children and who teaches to students. A few years ago, I met a colleague from an earlier call and asked him, "What are you doing?" He says I teach a little at college. How is it possible that he could teach a little at the university, and I was so surprised that in such a short time he could take all those scientific calls that were necessary to teach even a little bit at the university? It doesn't matter where his college is. These are things that you haven't tried to solve yet, and in the context of your story about these four laws, could you at least say in one or two sentences what you're planning for textbooks? Who's going to print our textbooks and what's their content? That's what the president of our party has been talking about here on many occasions and you don't want to or don't have any answer. We'll see later through some points of the agenda for verification, or signing a certain contract after three years, that it wasn't pressured on you, so you had to do it. Mr. Minister, I would tell you a problem that exists not only in one local self-government, but one can take a concrete example from a local self-government, a town that has or a municipality that has 14,000 inhabitants and about 400 elementary school students. It's 2.9 per 100 inhabitants, 2.9 are primary school students. This should be a topic for a deep analysis in your ministry, how and how to access these local self-governments, how to solve problems. Obviously, because of the great love of the "great leader" or some things that I don't think are like that, but people might believe it, they keep listening on TV, so in some local environments, I don't say in all, in some local environments, maybe local officials aren't, I don't think, alone, they just don't have the potential to solve some problems. Then we have marginal municipalities whose pupils, or children from these municipalities, because there are no adequate or even desirable schools in their environment, go only across the road to Republika Srpska and are believed to have the status of students who are educated and abroad, and then lose a child's allowance and I don't know which not all the privileges, but what is a serious and responsible and socially responsible society in the obligation to have a relationship with those children, they lose it. I don't think that's good, it's not right. There is also one fact that a large number of children go to health schools simply for reasons they expect when they end up getting a easy job abroad and there is a bit of a warning for you in the government to think about why the number of unemployed has fallen so rapidly. It is not only because, and certainly there are more employees now than last year, and perhaps even more than three or five years ago, but it is not only because of that, but because people are leaving not only the smaller ones in the larger environment, but also leaving the country of Serbia completely. One specific request addressed to you, Mr. Sarcevic, could be. There is a school in Love that was set on fire, or fire. She doesn't have many students. When I tell you this, 35 from first grade to eighth grade, and it covers one-fifth of that community. The children are forced now and the problem has been solved by providing transportation and going to other schools. They will finish primary school, not a problem here, but what many of the parents will leave, but are now thinking about enabling better conditions for their children, they will change the place of residence, and then we will have them in Belgrade or in other major areas, I am absolutely sure that no one in the government wants such a scenario in Serbia. I assume that there is a requirement in the Ministry of Education for that primary school, if it doesn't exist, you can also go through the school administration, you can go through the director of that school, get to that data, and see the fastest way to give them some kind of help. When it comes to the 20th point of the agenda -- the draft law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the United States on extradition, I now have little and fear of commenting on the contract, because Professor Vojislav Seselj explained it in a legal, professional way. But just to remind you, the president of the country is now going from place to place and providing or promising a better future for Serbia. I guess he said it somewhere yesterday -- Serbia is never small enough for those on the side. And we can share that finding. That's right. But by accepting this contract, we accept that we are not as small as they want, but even smaller and not to comment because Professor Vojislav Seselj explained it in the best way. The contract was signed by Justice Minister Nela Kuburovic and US Ambassador Scott nearly three years ago, and is now to be verified. It seems to me that the pressure is a little bit more serious than the citizens and you can recognize, but surely you are also aware of, and you know what it is. Mr. Jovičić, when it comes to you, you are a very correct man on the Board of Administration and Justice and here you have read about who our candidates are, why has Mr. Milojevic, who is now acting as President of the Cassation Court never appeared in this house? He was here, I only saw him when the president of the state took an oath. He could give us answers to some questions, they're related to these seven points of the agenda. Did you analyze the network of courts? Have you looked at the cost and what are the final effects? Do we have any traffic accidents that happen because of the fatigue of judges or those who take them to work and things like that? There are many more things we could ask him to give us an answer, but he's gone, he's persistent and he's skillfully avoiding. I hope you'll answer some questions, and you'll sort something out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-11-0.u51601	The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-11-0.u51602	Dear Vice President of the National Assembly, Mr Arsic, gentlemen of the Ministers with Associates, gentlemen of the Prosecutor's Office and the judiciary, I am pleased to see you more and more often in this high house. This speaks primarily of your relationship to work, as well as your relationship with the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We are today discussing, among other things, this high house, and a set of laws in the field of education and education. Education and education in the Republic of Serbia is among those sectors that have seen the most changes in the transition. The Republic of Serbia fell from one prestigious level of education during the regime of Tadic, Gilas, Jeremic and others to the biggest devastation in the history of education in the Republic of Serbia. I'd like my fellow pedagogues, who study the history of school and pedagogical ideas, to deny me. As he arrived at the head of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, today the current president of the state, Mr. Aleksandar Vukic, on 27 April 2014 found Serbia, which was economically, industrialally and infrastructureally devastated, Serbia without the security and security of its citizens, Serbia that was humiliated and humiliated, Serbia without a vision of the future, Serbia without hope and faith in the future, Serbia with a huge overindebted, Serbia with an excessive unemployment of 26.5%, exactly one million and 753 thousand were in a working relationship, and today, respected citizens of Serbia, two million and 900 thousand, Serbia without international reputation. What is the reputation today, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, judge for yourselves. Serbia has been robbed by robbery privatisation by the former regimes of Djilas, Tadic and Jeremic and Serbia with a destroyed lagging system of education and education. President Vucic came from the realization that the knowledge and education of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia is a fundamental assumption of the modernisation of the Republic of Serbia, conducted by this Government of the Republic of Serbia, headed by Ana Brnabic, the largest number of honourable MPs in this high house and the largest number of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, is the engine of Serbia's accelerated modernisation, the president of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Aleksandar Vukic. So he, along with the government, opened hundreds of schools and homes of health, kindergartens, and even some colleges. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, honourable MPs, many of the governments of serious countries in the world have given education and education a prominent place in their work programmes. And President Vukic did it in that program. President Vukic, in his programme, on page 71, when he was Prime Minister, said, quote, this is very important for education and education, I quote – what is most important, what I have written about many pages is education reform, because this is the most important for us, because it is human capital for the future and we have to learn and learn. It's a finished quote. Here is the reform of education and modernisation, education, Mr. Minister Sarčević, and the education system, in its biggest momentum in the Republic of Serbia, because only with modern education can we change Serbia. That is why you, Mr. Minister Sarčević, are absolutely right when you are all struggling to establish dual education as the greatest educational achievement with work and work. It's a successful reality with us today. Dear citizens, respected educators, respected MPs, I do not understand our political opponents, Djilas, Jeremic, Pajtic, Obradovic, and other alliances for the second robbery of Serbia, who in this high house opposed the introduction of dual education. Just remember. They did not present the concept of this dual education, but against the introduction of dual education. Dual education promotes a better integration of the nature of the work world and the theoretical education of the world of learning. It's the only way we're introducing a real, present, future world of work into the theory of education. This way our students and students will be prestigious in the world, and a little bit more and more these years. Dual education has now become a reality in the Republic of Serbia thanks to the Ministry of Education, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and I must remind you, President Vukic, who first mentioned in the Republic of Serbia when he came to the head of the government. I can tell you the day, the hour and the time. When it comes to these laws, or proposals for laws that are on the agenda of our today's session, I think it is necessary to adopt them, because the amendments and additions are related to the modernisation of pedagogical documentation in line with the world's educational movements, which I will talk about later on. The changes mainly relate to the modernisation of pedagogical documentation, to a very important area of education and education of our students, which is the evaluation of our students, the problem of enrolling children in the first grade of primary school, as well as children who can be enrolled in the development group, in preschool institutions. The issue of teacher education, which is very important, educators and professional associates in schools for education students with developmental disorders. I'm focusing on that specifically. The redefining of the provisions relating to the establishment of a working relationship at the head of the school, we had there, the minister made an excellent note of it, small doubts, and the same in terms of modernisation is precise. Modernization of the digital education system and formation of an organisation unit in the office. Did you, gentlemen, who are not present in this high house today imagine what I was talking about going on in our Republic? You've all denied it, which is why you're not here today to face our arguments. That's what we're looking for. Make your arguments, we'll make our arguments, that's the only thing that leads to the improvement of the Republic of Serbia. Redefining provisions relating to student evaluations, both in primary and secondary schools. Redefining and precision of students related to the establishment of a single information system of education. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, while our President of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Vukic, opens up the drives and hits the cornerstones at the same time, pay attention now to this information, when the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic requests, so I speak day, a permanent overall and comprehensive solution and compromise for our southern Serbian province, at the same evening, Minister Dacic at the UN Security Council defends Serbia's views on Kosovo and Metohija. But respected citizens, in the same hour, Gilas and Jeremic accuse Serbia, the president of Serbia at meetings with representatives of European countries outside our country. What does that tell you, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, you who remember 2000? It was done by the same people with their name and last name and on October 5, 2000. Respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, respected history professors studying modern history, October 5th was the second, biggest blow to parliamentary democracy in Serbia's recent history. The first was dictatorship, and the second was October 5th, because Milosevic did not win the elections then, lost in the elections, and Kostunica did not win the elections. The second round of elections, as you know, wasn't, but we had political opponents fall into this high house and set fire to this high house and so came to power on the street. That's why, respected citizens, is the second biggest blow to parliamentary democracy. Respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia and respected MPs you heard this information while our representatives fought in the UN and other bodies for the position of Kosovo and Metohija, until Vuk Jeremic and Dragan Dilas accused the president of the state and the state of Serbia in some European institutions. Who is this Wolf Jeremy? Let him explain to the citizens of Serbia how he got $200,000 from Mongolia, in the name of what did he receive it? He will not explain in any way what he received from abroad during his burning with this Assembly, from 2007 to 2017 he received as much as $7.9m from various suspicious sources at his Center for Democracy. Four and a half million were paid by a phantom energy company operating in Shanghai and Hong Kong, where his close friends and associates were operated for corruption in America and tried Patrick Ho and Sheikh Tidian Gardio. Yesterday, on a television show, he brutally offended the president of the Republic of Serbia, which I am not familiar with in Serbia's recent history, such a personal insult. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we these days are also witnessing support for the democratic processes in the Republic of Serbia. It's part of the university professor's signature. I'm calling my fellow professor of the university, if they're going to be involved in politics, let them get involved in political parties, and in science we have international symposia, we have magazines and that's where we compete. I've been watching this list and I have to tell you, the first five at the Faculty of Philosophy in Belgrade, Marija Bogdanovic is a regular professor, please, she's a metricus, but not in Belgrade, but a lecture in Niksic. The same night she was on TV while Dacic was at the UN, Mr. Vukic solved a comprehensive solution and a compromise for Kosovo and Metohija, and these three are in Brussels. What does that tell you? Did we look at that picture, gentlemen, you who remember 2000? However, I did get a little bit, and probably you, Minister, type in "Cobson", let's see Maria Bogdanovic. Do you know how much? Zero stands there. Next, Happy Vujević, professor, zero stands. My dear Rabbit, I'm sorry fellow My dear Rabbit, zero standing there. It's about prestigious lists, global lists. Djokica Jovanovic, a retired professor who was my colleague at the Faculty of Pristina, and when the bombing started, fled to Belgrade, it is clear who provided him with the job, Marija Bogdanovic, is today leading to Nis's tenants. Type him in, zero stands. You can all draw ours in "Vos", so look at the name and name of the professor, and you'll see. Furthermore, Dragan Bulatovic, a retired professor, is in the same situation. Next, not to mention, there are more of them, but I was interested in something else. However, both Ana Pesikan and Tinde Kovac Cerovic are on the list. I thought there was, and there's nothing there. However, I am entering another professor who criticises us these days, especially the Ministry of Education, Jovo Bakic, professor, zero. This Jovo Bakic is a second-time doctor, tenth-year-old. Please, the mistake was made by the High Education Council when he allowed the doctor to choose twice in the same title. If we were the law, like in other countries, five years to be, and we were looking for these references, there would be few, Mr. Minister, in college today. That's why they're criticizing you. That's why, Mr. Minister, because for years they've had privileges, they've been editors of our domestic magazines, and they've not allowed it, but their narrow circles, and they've kind of destroyed science. They didn't follow European and world flows. As soon as we open up to the world, here they are on the street. They were also in 2000, and Djokica Jovanovic came in 2000, and Marija Bogdanovic became the rector in 2000. I'm still not counting. Jovo Bakić, not to count. Oliver Toskovic, well, he's a professor at my university, in a third grade relationship. My men, a ten-year-old doctor, as well as Zarko Korać, who retired as a doctor, and here he kept criticizing us, etc. Do you know what that Toskovic was doing? You've seen it on TV screens. He put together a test of the pricology and asked the journalist three questions, and he doesn't know one thing. Says the professor - I don't need to know, and he's the creator. We know that professors, at my university, at all colleges, etc. So I type him in, zero. Next, not to count, but in some way to bring the end, to leave my colleagues with more time. But I have to say something, I don't want to talk about October 5th, but I'm going to quote Diana Johnston. You are well-known, which you remember in 2000, and the trial in The Hague tribunal, "Suludi Cruises", which she said, quoted: "On the wings of the people's celebration, because of the fall of Slobodan Milosevic, which was bordered by drunkenness, Serbia was in the jag for power by the stampede of unprofessional, gramped and arrogant people, conceited leaders of fictitious parties, self-proclaimed experts, half-holy of all calibers and profiles that promoted themselves to revolutionary winners, and the state and all in the country for their hostages and prey," finished the quote. Dear citizens of Serbia, it's quite similar to what we're about to do. They don't know the street, they don't know how to come here to face problems. Dear Minister, these are reform laws. I thank you for courageously stepping into reform flows and deafening the criticism of individuals. You've accomplished and proven yourself in educational work. Those who made you go away in 2000, you know best, and today they're criticizing you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-11-0.u51603	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mr. Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-11-0.u51604	Just for the sake of the public, the debt to this school in the vicinity of Love, it's about an out-of-state department that currently has 29 students and where an accident has occurred and has not been established for what reason. What's important is that there's part of the resources that's been provided and the part that's still missing. So we're working on a final project. So seven million is secured, and five will be provided. So it'll be settled since spring.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-11-0.u51605	The word is from a colleague named Veronica Radeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-11-0.u51606	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, fellow Members of the Assembly should understand that it is indeed the last moment to make an effort to restore democracy to the National Assembly. What you're doing is very bad. You, gentlemen, from the ministry, since the government is now delivering agendas in this extraordinary session, you might be able to draw attention to the fact that you don't want to make such a papazian out of the agenda, because the 40 points of integration into one is absolutely unacceptable and that is indeed the most severe violation of parliamentary and parliamentary democracy. There is no such mind under the hat of the sky that could find some touching points between individual proposals within these 40 connected into one item of the agenda. In this regard, it is quite complicated for MPs to identify what we are able to talk about and what to draw attention to. Since Minister Sarcevic here spoke of his proposals and tried to explain to us that we have such frequent amendments to the education law because, as he said, life goes faster than the laws, it can't be done so by the minister. The laws must provide for everything that is realistic that it is possible to cover the law within a given area. Last year, a few months ago, we talked about these bill proposals, in 2018 and 2017, whether it is possible that you didn't know at the time that the base of the exposé of Ana Brnabic was, when she was elected prime minister, the digitisation of Serbia, and you say that you are now introducing digitisation into these areas. We'll talk about it a little bit, and when we're in the amendments, we'll focus on it a little bit. This Law amending the Law on Weapons, changing one member and changing the deadline for a year, and this is something that must be mentioned primarily for public reasons. In 2015 you brought in and in three years you are unable to do what you were obliged to do in three years. So this says how much the National Assembly is just a formality for you, let's go through the Assembly, and what will you do and when you do something, who cares. The law on the Serbian Literature Association, Minister Vukosavljevic, in this sense is more or less a formal amendment to the bill. We have submitted several amendments with the intention of paying attention, I think you can adopt them and what is good is that the Serbian literary cooperative will finance itself in part from the budget. Let this part be as large as possible and be as serious as possible, because we can indeed find out through this institution, that through various books, we leave a lot to future generations of what may be forgotten from the history of Serbia and the Serbian people. When it comes to various agreements, the public should also know that we in the National Assembly are just a flow boiler, that all these agreements are already concluded and they are already making us quite binding, although they are not ratified in the National Assembly. It's this order that I guess should change once, so ministers don't get so blastly authorized. You know, we have bad experience. You remember how Vuk Jeremic, at the UN Security Council, transferred the KIM issue from the Security Council to EULEX, and today we suffer for it. Ministers must be under serious control of the National Assembly, which in our present case and this time is also not the case. One of the proposals is the Law confirming a financial contract for the development of river transport infrastructure in Serbia between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank. What's interesting about this? Under this agreement, we are in debt for 100m euros. You can explain why, but look at what it says in this agreement – the bank's statute provides that the bank will ensure that its funds are used as rationally as possible and in the interest of the EU. So we take 100m euros in credit from that European bank, and we have to work in the interest of the EU. Wrongly, gentlemen, you will see when the EU closes our doors that we will deal with the consequences of these laws, which you inherited and which you are doing the same as those before you, and which you are adopting here without any selection. Proposal for a law confirming a contract between the Republic of Serbia and the United States. I remind you of something that Vojislav Seselj was saying at the beginning, you should never adopt. We will have and we can have serious consequences if this law is passed. There is nothing better with what Zorana Mihajlovic signs. It has to be put under the bat especially. On 3 October 2017, she signed this agreement between Serbia and the transport community and you heard that she broke diplomatic status that allowed everyone, other than the Russian Centre, the Serbian-Russian humanitarian centre in Nis, but that is Zorana Mihajlovic, and you are so suffering her, and it is hard for us with her. As for this case involving the choice of judges and prosecutors, we'd have a lot to say here. A representative of the High Council of the Judiciary has read to us here all the names of the people who should be elected as judges for the first time, but in their biographies we don't have complete data. You can't not say what average someone graduated from law school. We have cases here to say one candidate has studied for 10 years, and the other has studied for four years and the commission, the one formed by the High Council of the Judiciary, said that both of the highest marks ended this thing in front of the commission, and that something in front of the commission is, imagine, a conversation. Are these members of the High Council psychologists, psychiatrists? What does talking to them mean and based on that conversation to give a grade? Completely wrong and completely wrong and let me tell you, sir, that many judges who have been chosen are angry, and those who want to be chosen, angry at what you're not going to write on average by someone who's finished law school. If he wants to be a judge or prosecutor, he has to be a slightly more observant student. And, then we have, let's say, this guy, Rust Zivadinovic, who is the deputy of the Public Prosecutor in Prijepolje, who ended up with an average of 6,61, who is from Belgrade, who was chosen to be the deputy prosecutor in Prijela so that he could carry out some political processes there and, of course, waste his money unconditionally, for a separate life of 853,000, and on behalf of 538 000 dinars, etc. I just don't have time to read all this. But this is the result of a reform of the judiciary where you allowed someone to live in Belgrade and be a deputy public prosecutor in Prepolje. We don't mind if someone from Belgrade goes there, but then there's no separate life. He goes there, lives and works there, and no problem would that be. So you're sick of what you're doing. And there's one mistake I've really seen more than once. You're saying a prosecutor stops his post because of the completion of the working century. Don't do it like this. He's not a working man. He's done. He's done. Let's say, and there are a lot of cases like this, I'm just going to take this example, because there's no time left. The president of the Chamber of Commerce is elected in Leskovac, a certain Veselinka Jeremic. But you say there were three candidates. We don't know what two more are here. Maybe she's the best, but we don't know what two other candidates were and what their characteristics were. So don't mock the National Assembly. If the congregation majority allows you to do so, we Serbian radicals will not allow you to do so. Every time we let the public know this way about your way of working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-11-0.u51607	Thank you. The word is from a colleague of Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-11-0.u51608	The Honorable Chairman, gentlemen of the Ministers with Associates, honourable MPs, the theme of this assembly's parliamentary debate is extremely important legislation in the fields of education, culture, security, as well as important draft laws confirming international agreements, agreements, protocols and conventions in several areas of social and economic life. With all due respect to the proposed laws, bearing in mind that a representative of our parliamentary group of Professors has been authorised. Zarko Obradovic expressed the view of the SPS parliamentary group on most proposed laws, I will, in accordance with this, and the time available, refer to two draft laws – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Student and Student Standards, as well as the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Serbian Literature Association. Since I come from the university, I believe that the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on student and student standards is extremely important and valuable, because it prescribes issues that mean editing and improving the system of providing material support to students and students. For many of them and of course their parents, very important support is in the form of student and student scholarships and loans, accommodations in dorm and student homes, as well as the possibility of using resorts for rest and recreation. I remind you, for example, that in the past school year, the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development funded 12,200 student scholarships, about 21,000 student scholarships and loans and about 1,000 scholarships for highly gifted students and students. In addition, in the system of student and student standards, the Ministry of Education is funding and 63 institutions, including students' homes, schools with students' homes, as well as nine student centres. It is very important that future students and students can count on this kind of support during their education. Also, scholarships need to continue to support and encourage the development of highly talented students and students. It is also important that the distribution system for this purpose is accurate, fair and efficient. Also, I think it is important that our students and students be offered offers and other programmes related to informal education and training through seminars, conferences, training and the like. In view of all of this, it believes that the application of the proposed law will contribute to making our education significantly improved, making it available for as many students and students as possible, efficient and even more quality. Another law I want to refer to is the law on amendments to the Law on the Serbian Literature Society. I believe that this law is extremely important, that it is worthy of attention in praise, since it legally regulates issues important for the survival and work of the Serbian literary cooperative, one of the key institutions of national culture. Let me remind you, the Serbian literary cooperative is our oldest publisher. It was founded in 1892. Her founders were our most clever and influential people of that time. The first president of the Serbian Literature Association was Stojan Novakovic, a statesman, a scientist, a literary one. The first vice president was our famous poet, Jovan Jovanovic Dragon. In 127 years, since its founding, to this day, the Serbian literary cooperative has only worked during the World War I occupation and is therefore rightly said to be the one connecting three centuries. It is recognizable by traditional annual editions, so-called cars or blue books, as the oldest and most significant editions of Serbian literature and Serbian culture. So far, 109 cars have come out with a total of 734 numbered books. In addition to the car, the Serbian Literature Association has achieved the observed results in publishing other editions, such as "The History of the Serbian People" in ten volumes, "Serbian Literature" in 100 books or "Old Serbian Literature" in 24 books. The Serbian literary cooperative is also recognizable by the fact that its administration and the authoring teams have always made our most valuable writers, professors and scientific workers. So there is no doubt, it is an exceptional national publishing brand that has an extremely high value, important for the preservation of the national and cultural identity of the Serb people. Today, the survival of the Serbian literary cooperative has been questioned, given that its publishing activity is not based on market and commercial foundations, and in modern conditions it is necessary to redefine its status and provide additional sources of funding. In that sense, I would like to commend the Ministry of Culture, to commend the proposed law, because it is he who will provide a solution to the status issue of the Serbian Literature Association, which will also provide additional sources of funding and in the ultimate line, preservation and continuation of the work of the Serbian literary community in the years ahead. Starting from the above, and especially with respect and respect for our culture, tradition and history, the SPS parliamentary group will support the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Serbian Literature Association, as well as all other laws from the joint review of this assembly session. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-11-0.u51609	Thank you, colleagues. The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic. Here's a colleague of Mircic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-11-0.u51610	It is good that the ministry has heard criticism and instructions from the SRS and finally started some reforms on Serbian literary cooperatives. The Serbian literary cooperative is planned, according to the order of those who arrived on October 5th, or who, more specifically, brought in those who ruled Serbia, systematically destroyed. Destroyed as a tradition of the Serbian people and we have brought here a number of arguments that the situation in the Serbian literary community is alarming and because of tradition and because of everything that is related to the Serbian literary society, the Serbian nation and must be taken care of such institutions, such institutions. Not according to us, Serbian radicals, only this transformation provided for by the ministry, but by amendments, we will try to specify even more precise provisions for the Serbian literary cooperative to solve the main burning problem, that is the problem of funding. I'm just reminding you that countless times, we Serbian radicals have honored that you have money for "Exit", that you have money for which-what wonders where most drugs are spread, and that you have no understanding of what is a Serbian tradition. It is also important for us to take care of the Serbian Matica as well. You know it has come to the question of printing the oldest list in the Serbian people, it's the journal Mother of Serbia, and it's part of the plan of systematic destruction, all of what is the tradition of the Serbian nation. It is good that the Ministry of Education wants to point out in some way the importance of secondary education, by raising the High School "Draj Jova Jovanovic" from Novi Sad and the Mathematical High School of Belgrade to the level of institutions of national importance, but Mr. Minister, you have to take care of exactly what I was just talking about, about tradition, it's a High School in Sremski Karlovci, it's a High School in Kragujevac. In the 18th century, at the end of the 18th century, everything that was educated, written, smart, and until today passed through the high school of Karlovac, not underestimating, and how to make all of this important, all of these successes achieved by students and teachers, i.e. teachers and the Math High School "Draj Jova Jovanovic", the oldest Serbian high school is in Sremski Karlovci. You have launched an action relating to the Sremski Karlovci, which is to return to the Sremski Karlovci what by nature belongs to, to be a university city, or municipality. That's what the Carlites were. It is a python of culture and education of the Serbian people. The Karlovci and the Karlovak High School are more appreciated in Vienna, in the intellectual circles of Vienna, than they are appreciated by representatives of Serbia's authorities. It's easy to deny. There is an idea in the Karlovacs that was from before, which is to create a philosophical centre in the Sremski Karlovci, is there no such centre in the former Yugoslavia and that is something that gives the Karlovites extra weight, which actually preserves tradition. Tradition should be nurtured, not bought by stories of what your tradition will be, we turn to the future, for us digitization is something that is unhindered. No, and tradition is an integral part of the Serbian people and traditions should be the obligation of everyone in the government, especially when it comes to these two ministries – the Ministry of Education and Culture. Where good luck to come out with a proposal that that monster from the festival, called "Exit", moved out of the Petrovaradin Fortress. It's a shame, a shame. The historical monument is being destroyed year after year. Maintaining a festival that is not founded in anyone's tradition, it's music, it's an art that has no tradition and is maintained not by the premises of the Petrovaradin Fortress. Did you see that somewhere? Have you heard that such festivals are held at any or near any institution that is of cultural, historical importance? You're not. Only in Serbia and still money is given from the level of the Republic, and more from the level of local self-government, and more from the province and then said – Serbia is recognised by the "Exit". Serbia is recognised by the Serbian literary community. Serbia is recognised for its mathematical high school, according to the "Draj Jovina" high school, which is why Serbia is recognised. What is positive, and that is to adopt the Convention on the Protection of Health in Agriculture at this session. Namely, what's this about? Finally, the Convention is adopted, a positive practice that comes, the truth works from Europe, which is to take care of those workers who are temporarily employed as seasonal workers in agriculture. They need to be taken care of and that's something that's positive. It is in the form of the Convention, but we hope it will be legal provisions and how defined. So far we've had total chaos and it's one of the positive sides. Why do we, the Serbian radicals, say what we need in some way to point out as positive, so we have no reason not to do it, we are not burdened with some cheap political points, we are saying what is reality. What is a disgrace to this government is that in official politics, the country's president's politics, at all costs, wants to hinder this great Albanian nationalism, the fascism that comes from Kosovo and Metohija, and the minister of traffic wants to legalise Kosovo as a state. I have this Transport Community Agreement, an Agreement on the formation of secretariats, so don't make people crazy, so isn't logistics politics to the economy and vice versa. We have a political situation that we have a historic enemy in Albania, in Albanian official politics, no matter what anyone thinks, especially when it comes to a part of Serbian territory called Kosovo and Metohija. Here we drag them to the big door to become part of a community that tomorrow, as someone says, needs to become a European transport community. It's out of your mind.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-11-0.u51611	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mr. Vukosavljevic. Here you go. Vladan Vukosavljevic: Only briefly, the precision works. So, the Ministry of Culture and Information is in no way financed by the festival "Exit". So, not taking this opportunity to assess the range and quality of such a event, I'm just drawing attention to your accuracy, that the Ministry of Culture is not participating in the financing of this festival. It's just like that, it's facts. On the other hand, I am pleased that you support this initiative to amend and supplement the law on the Spanish literary association. For a long time, the Ministry of Culture, this has been prepared earlier for various reasons of procedure, this has been waiting, we wanted to perform with this before, it was done. We've seen some amendments now, we'll see about that. The only thing that seems to me to me is that here in one amendment, you put away the one that manages the SKZ, here was in the alterations of the warden, and in this amendment as we have now received, and we'll see later that there is no warden. The board of directors, but you know how, by the tradition that there is one, next to the board of directors, a natural person, who, earlier in the text of the director, and more in accordance with tradition, and not to use this time for it now, we'll talk about it, we'll see. These are all useful suggestions. As for the Ministry of Culture and Information and the principles of helping the necessary and necessary financial assistance to the traditional most important institutions of Serbian culture, I don't think we have any doubt about it, no one in this room. As far as the Serbian Mother is concerned, the fact is that on many occasions you mentioned it, or affirmed the values of the Mother of Serbia, but I would also remind you, it is not disputed, it is only on the same wave, that in the last three years the Serbian Matica has received through the Ministry of Culture the most funds. If I didn't go too far in history now, you could say any period of years, decades ago. Therefore, the concern of this ministry, the Ministry of Culture and Information towards such institutions of Serbian culture, is strong, stressed, convincing and indisputable, so I am glad that we have a similar view of the matter. And this is what I said about the Exit, for the sake of precision, I'm not going to use this opportunity to express my opinion on the quality of different manifestations. This is what the Ministry of Tourism is responsible for, and funding goes through them. As for other activities of the ministry, and regarding the interests of Serbian culture, I remind you that the Ministry has done a draft of the cultural development strategy of Serbia, and I expect this draft to be found in the Serbian government very quickly and soon I believe that we will have the opportunity to talk about it here too. Today, it will be held at the session of a proposal to elect members of the National Council for Culture, which is in accordance with the Culture Act and we believe that such an advisory body should exist. And what's very important to us, and it's really been standing for a long time and waiting, it's been crowded, legislative, etc., it's a bill on amendments to the Law on Language and Letters. So, affirmation, use and protection of Cyrillic letters is of paramount importance to us, regardless of such an idea being opposed to any resistance, from relatively well-known ideological and other motives, but we will continue to insist strongly on all those reasonable measures that should not discriminate or disabling the use of other letters, but rather aphirm the greater use and use of Cyrillic letters, i.e. in public use, etc., etc. Therefore, I think it is good that there is a relatively strong social consensus on the interest of traditional and strong institutions of Serbian culture and, of course, about very important, strategic issues of language and letter. Thank you. (Milorad Mircic: Replica. ) Comrade Mircic, you have no right to a replica. Milorad Mircic: You are at the end of your heart. I'm not at the end of my heart, Mr. Mircic, don't yell. Mr. Secretary spoke with praise. Milorad Mircic: How are you not ashamed? You don't give us the right to speak. How are you not ashamed to do this? You're asking me to give you the right to a replica because the minister spoke positively of your discussion. The word has the People's MP Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go. (Milorad Mircic: E, good for you. )
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-11-0.u51613	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers and fellow MPs, today we have had the opportunity to hear from the Minister what the Government of the Republic of Serbia is talking about and the majority of the Assembly and the SNS, which is that the results of the reform laws in the last five years give great results, given that more than 180 factories have been opened, but the need for society to change, especially when it comes to education, because those laws we have passed need to be improved. This promotion is precisely shown by these parts of the law, when it comes to pre-school education and primary education, but also when it comes to publishing activity, which we all agree here should be strengthened by the ministry and the government taking into their care the Serbian house, which is one of the most important when it comes to Serbian tradition, as we have had the opportunity to hear from our opposition colleagues who talk about simply this kind of work of the Ministry of Education or Education, says that one progress has been made in this work when it comes to education at all. What is most important is that the government of the Republic of Serbia, when it spoke of improving not only education but all segments in society, which is the digitisation of society, does not exclude the practical preservation of Serbian tradition. And today, in fact, the suggestions show it. So, we are in favour of having to follow the information expansion in the world, because it's the only way we can take a step, when it comes to not only education but also economic growth and development, and we essentially lead Serbia to really be able to deal with the best, the smartest, and also the most developed economies. And it is not by chance that some educational institutions, we give them a special status, because it is not by any chance that the Mathematical High School and the High School "Jovan Jovanovic Dragon" are precisely the ones that we put under the auspices of the state and we give great support, because the results themselves show such a thing. Serbia has always had very smart children. So, that fostering their mind, through the responsibility of the state, is now being shown in fact and in action. All the things that some people attack us for, who call themselves opposition, and I'll tell you that if you look at an opposition that wants to have certain protests once a week here in Belgrade, they don't have political parties, there are only one or two, everything else is in the domain of certain movements, which in society want to raise light, or the public that Serbia has to guard its personnel. Well, she's doing that, not only on the basis of the laws and strategies that we've had and that the Ministry has really done successfully in the past five years, implementing economic reforms, where it's very difficult in society to implement economic reforms at the same time to go to growth and development, especially when it comes to non-profit parts in society such as education, such as health care, such as culture. So, this Ministry of Education has shown that it has defined many of its objectives, achieved its objectives, and when it comes to the IT sector and information support to society, but also when it comes to supporting those interests that have never existed anywhere before when it comes to the nomenclature of interest, especially when it comes to the National Employment Service. That is why it should really be said today that the ministry has really made a major step in society to these bill proposals and the Government of the Republic of Serbia is considering Serbia's future. All those statistics that say that when our young people finish colleges want to find support, that is, their work in some other countries, I think they're in favour of such an atmosphere in society changing. These are the steps we want to change. Trends that not only our country, but countries in the region, and also EU countries are able to slow down, and these migrations are caused by economic opportunities in countries such as Germany, such as Austria, which have passed a set of positive laws that want to suck up more than 30,000 engineers, 30,000 doctors, and that is their strategic goal that they made 10 years ago, because they are aware that their population is old and that by natural outflows from their system they have to integrate a large number of experts and they are passing such laws. Serbia has shown that such legal proposals and what Serbia's accession to CERN membership has smart people, has engineers, has scientific researchers who participate in world projects, which change the world today. I'll tell you one fact that shows that many times in society many things are not recognized in an adequate way. In 1937, there was an article in Belgrade and Serbia that otherwise characterized Tesla as a crazy electrician and where the then state did not recognize such people as great researchers. This made it easier for some developed economies, such as America, to take such experts and indeed create the future of the world, i.e. by preserving our personnel through the system of functioning of our institutions, scientific institutes, and even working on international projects that Serbia will sign together with all of the EU's world institutions and institutions, to show that we want to preserve our staff here in Serbia. I think that this kind of promotion of this system of education is, at the end of the day, an increase in the standards of the students and students themselves in Serbia, which you have given this bill, the essence that gives the real future of the lives and work of these young people in Serbia according to the highest standards, in the way that they can get it in other countries of developed economies. The introduction of dual education, which we have received the most criticism, is now showing that it yields results. But I'd look back on something we haven't forgotten since 2012, somewhere. It's a state of affairs when we talk, not just about the economy, because we've seen a lot of things and heard a lot about economic reform and these results that we now have a large number of factories over 180 factories in five years. I would refer to it, that means it's our obligation as a society to educate the staff who are supposed to work in these factories, because also those factories that are going to be opened and that are already open will always go towards raising the scale of their operation by applying these most modern IT technologies and thus, education of these personnel within these systems will each year increase that scale that they will have to reach. And, well, it's a good idea, for example, for example, like the Sremski Karlovci, one center for education in general of our staff, such as the Frayburg example in one Germany, where there will be a small university town, but our problem is that large centres such as Belgrade, Nis, Kragujevac, Novi Sad, are simply built by these technological and scientific parks, where students will rather live and work and study in these cities than they will be educated in small university centres such as the Sremski Karlovci. That's the problem where we have to find a way as a state to overcome it and I think the Ministry is certainly working on trying to find solutions like that. What's now in our society, somewhere lit up as a problem, is that we have representatives so-called. The opposition that wants through violence in everyday life, through verbal communication, and God also through specific cases, physical violence against women and all those who don't think the same, want and try to form a political picture of Serbia, where there is no democracy. Democracy in society is manifested in different ways, and above all, what many have insisted is these critical opinions that we should talk about as problems in society and we talk about. We as responsible policymakers of the Republic of Serbia both in parliament and in society, the ministries, simply raise many questions that they were not allowed to raise by 2012. So that's why they're not even statistics about how many women are really threatened when we're talking about violence against women. But I'm surprised that vocabulary used today in the attack society shows, above all, a lack of home education and certain behavioral disorders. I'm surprised that certain individuals who are professors at the university, who have given such support, simply don't condemn this kind of expression in society. There is no policy, or political platform, with which those who rally every week are trying to show that they are more and more and that they are in all kinds of cities in a certain number, and this number is multiple times and double-digit, do not simply show that they want to communicate with anyone in Serbian society at all. This is what shows simply that it is all a single project, a project which is probably funded by some governments that are not the Government of the Republic of Serbia and show that they are on their task and as long as it is financed, the task will last. Serbia does not trust those who do not believe in the policy of hanging, violence, verbal, physical, not only women, journalists and those who do not think the same, can win Serbia, because Serbia simply shows that citizens of Serbia always think about their future and only such a policy can get in Serbia, not only in the elections, not just in the debates, not just in the opinion of citizens who think well of themselves and their children, their families, but everywhere in which you ask citizens about how they think about how they see Serbia in 2030? Just like this set of laws shows that we really are someone who thinks about the future, who thinks he's opening up new jobs and who thinks he's keeping the kids here in the Republic of Serbia to have their families and their jobs. For that reason in the voting day, we will support this set of laws both as SNS and as its MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-11-0.u51614	Thank you. Now in accordance with Article 87. Rules of Procedure, I'm setting a break for an hour. We'll be back in 15.05 hours. [[after breaks]] Dear ladies and gentlemen, the MPs continue to work further. The word has been made by the MPs of the people, Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-11-0.u51616	I thank the chairman. Given that he is an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group, Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradovic, pointed out the unequivocal position of the SPS parliamentary group that we will support all the proposals that are under discussion and discussion today in a very constructive debate and with great satisfaction I must point out, one expert debate that is not burdened by either destruction or obstruction, nor by adversities, but rather by one approach that implies commitment to what is being done today and commitment to what needs to be decided through the vote of these laws. Therefore, for you, honourable ministers, unequivocal support for all that you have suggested, given that the reasons for these laws are more than justifiable and that in this way we contribute only to something that can be said to be better, progressive and in practical terms words useful. So, the SPS parliamentary group has no problem with the draft laws that are on the agenda. I will look back, so that I do not repeat what my colleagues have said excessively, our authorised representative, Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradović, will refer to the laws that were less said, as well as personal solutions, in particular to the proposal put forward by the High Council of the judiciary. When it comes to the bill of arms and ammunition, we must be very clear and precise because of the citizens of Serbia. This is not about any populism, it's not about any demagogue approach, it's about any virtually practical obligation to extend the time limit for the submission of applications or requests for the issue of arms sheets, or obtaining adequate, legally prescribed documents, on the basis of which gun holders will be fully legal and legitimate carriers or holders of weapons. Thus, on the one hand, what could be a criminal offence is prevented, and we know well that a criminal offence is not allowed to hold arms, and on the other hand that a very large number of weapons and their owners are somehow returned to legal flows, i.e. to enter legal flows and to exercise their legal rights in a completely legal procedure. When it comes to the proposal of the High Council of the Judiciary, given that there are respected colleagues from the High Council of the judiciary, ultimately and distinguished Judge Mr. Jovicic with an associate, I, as always, must now point out one thing from the point of view of the profession - a great pleasure. Satisfaction with the fact that the High Council of the judiciary, i.e. members of the Visa Council of the judiciary, is extremely committed and responsible, and I strongly stress this, are doing their job and make the best proposals within that responsibility. These proposals are not proposed because of someone's wish or someone's will, but these proposals are the result of a legal procedure that is very restrictive when it comes to proposing candidates for legal holders, both through interview, evaluation, then the position of colleges, courts, and all that by law and regulations or rules are prescribed that someone might even appear in front of this assembly as a credible candidate for legal holders. I am convinced that those who are listed here by names and last names and with their biographies are the ones who deserve to make their subpoena, too much to enter the place of the holder of the judicial function, and then make their subpoena the best possible way. That's why we're telling them trust exactly the decisions we're about to make here. Mr. Jovic, I have to pull a parallel. We have one clear procedure today, we have one clear procedure. We have very high-quality suggestions. We have everything we didn't have in 2009 and 2010 when the judiciary was literally ruined, when we had a situation where someone, someone who wasn't here, who didn't want to participate in this debate, which is mostly professional, who is primarily democratic and who is too far-fetched and accepting different thinking that exactly who aren't around here played with living people, did experiments on judges in the way that first 700 judges were literally thrown out on the street, were literally expelled from their jobs, including a large number of very high-quality judges. Where were the criteria based on which their work was evaluated? Nowhere. The constitutional court of Serbia, we can metaphorically say, has struck those creators or authors of the collapse of justice, the credibility of the judiciary, the independence of the judiciary, by slapping all judges back into their jobs, because the election procedure was not transparent. Today? Today, this procedure is more than transparent. This procedure is now visible to an ordinary citizen, and this procedure today can be recognized by anyone in the best possible way, which is through facts, each of us. Could that have happened sometime? No, it's not. What is very important, it is very important to point out that, together with your colleagues, you have achieved something that has so far not been a postulate of the work of the judiciary, which is the ideal of independence and absolute independence of the judiciary and absolute independence of the prosecution. You have achieved because you have worked exclusively in accordance with the law and have measured the value of candidates who deserve attention and justify the role of judge. If you hadn't done that, then destroying the judiciary would have been continued, continued where it started in 2009 and 2010. On the contrary, you gave a boost to the healing of the judiciary, which is still sick and which still needs to be treated. We have another problem today. Today we don't have the influence of justice policy, and it's demagogy, it's a hypocrisis, it's hypocrisy, because none of the politicians have released criminals, none of them have passed judgments on this side, nor have they imposed judgments, except for the courts and judges themselves. The reminders work only for how many politicians were dissatisfied with court decisions, but the courts remained flat, dignified, principled, working in accordance with the Constitution and law. It's a big deal, a big deal for us who represent the legislative authority, which doesn't interfere with the judiciary, a big deal for executive power, which also doesn't interfere with the judicial authority, and most importantly, a big deal for the courts, because the courts have kept what they have to have, and that's independence and that's good. As much as anyone thinks it should be led under suspicion, he may choose, but he will be deceived, he will absolutely not be able to find anything in the negative sense of the word. On the contrary. There is something else that I keep pointing out as a well-intentioned criticism, that there must be no false solidarity in courts, that there must be no false solidarity among judges, that judges must always point to those who do not work properly among them, those who mock the judiciary by their work, who destroy the dignity of the judiciary, who in any way, both in terms of dignity and in terms of profession do not justify their position. Such ones do not belong in the justice system of the Republic of Serbia. Why fake solidarity? For one reason – which the judges themselves can best recognize. Once, in 2009 and 2010, this false solidarity was at its peak. Not today, but we have to continue the process of healing the judiciary. For this reason, I would once again like to support your decisions, the decisions of the distinguished ministers sitting here and to point out once again that the SPS parliamentary group will support proposals on the agenda in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-11-0.u51617	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-11-0.u51618	I thank you, President of the Assembly. Dear Ministers Sarcevic, honourable fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, I am Milija Miletic, coming from Svrlig. It is the most beautiful municipality in Serbia located near the town of Nisa, it is the most beautiful city in Serbia. Otherwise, I am an MP for the United Peasants' Party, selected from the Serbian Progressive Party list. Otherwise, this is how I've been starting since 2014, since I've been an MP, because I want to hear where I come from, because I want to hear what foreigners I belong to here in the Assembly always talk about the problems of our people living in the territory of small municipalities in southeastern Serbia, about the problems we need to solve. We have passed a number of laws that we want to speed up the development of Southeastern Serbia, the development of small municipalities, small communities, through the programme and the adoption of these laws, now by supplementing the law, where we give another year to reregister weapons for all our people who are in love with hunting, for those who have trophy weapons. That's good, because due to the insufficient number of personnel of people working at police stations, we can't finish that part of the job and it's really over and we need to do it very quickly from the next year. Something else that is very important to me, about these education laws, about basic education, is very important to me because we put an accent on what is necessary. Mr. Minister, we always talk to you and we always solve the problems of small communities, small municipalities, small schools with insufficient numbers of students. Here, now a network of schools will be completed, a network of departments, where from hill-mounted areas we have a number of such departments that, should stay there to work, to teach children there, to keep working, because I think we'll just have the opportunity to ensure the development of these small environments... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-11-0.u51619	Thank you very much. You've wasted your time. (Milia Miletic: We from the USS will vote for a set of these laws. I thank you. The word has a folk MP, Stefan Miladanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-11-0.u51620	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear ministers, as my fellow MPs have said, it is clear from the discussion that the SPS will support all laws on the agenda. But there were few words here by my colleagues about confirming certain agreements that are on the agenda today. In particular, in a few minutes, I would refer to traffic agreements. We'll ratify four new air traffic agreements these days. These are bilateral agreements with Sri Lanka, Canada, India and Azerbaijan. These are, we can say, new, more modern air traffic agreements, which will, I'm sure, affect the further development of our air traffic in Serbia. A particularly important international agreement relying on a year-and-a-half ago ratified agreement on the establishment of the Transport Community today is actually a contract that we must ratify with the Transport Community as the Republic of Serbia, and the reason is, of course, the establishment of the headquarters of this Transport Community, which will be in Belgrade. When we discussed the confirmation of this agreement in 2017, i.e. the formation of the Transport Community, there were words for and against it. But certainly, the SPS believes that this ratification will have a number of benefits as a state, not only on the international agenda and will not only raise the international reputation of the Republic of Serbia, but will certainly affect the profession and, I believe, first of all, construction and traffic in this sense be involved. I believe this is what we contribute, of course, to the development of all kinds of traffic. The regional transport network of the Western Balkans is part of Europe's transport space and part of the European transport network. Serbia is recognised in the regional transport network by the EU as a node not only in the integration of countries and regions of the Western Balkans, but in the entire Western Balkans with Europe. All initiatives and all projects contributing to infrastructure and traffic development must be supported. This is one of the two extremely important initiatives on the international agenda when it comes to regional transport development. Another initiative that my dear colleague, Professor, spoke of earlier. Obradovic is an initiative within the Silk Road, i.e. one belt – one time, in a 16 plus 1 format where the Republic of Serbia is also recognised as a state that could be a centre when it comes to infrastructure projects. In any case, as an MP and representative of the SPS, in voting day, we will support all these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-11-0.u51621	The word has a folk MP, Snezana Paunovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-11-0.u51622	Thank you, President. Dear ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, I will look back on two points of today's agenda, and that is the Law on the Serbian Literature Association and the National Council on Culture, not points my colleagues did not talk about, but perhaps just to point out in more detail the importance of these two decisions that the Serbian Parliament has before it. The Serbian literary cooperative, founded in 1892, undoubtedly has an invaluable value. As stated in the reasoning of the law, with a quote from Vladimir Ćorovic, it is not the Serbian literary cooperative in the classical sense, but by taking that name, she wanted to bring into her circle the congratulating morale of our old home cooperative, to connect people more closely and to subject the personal element to the spirit and benefits of the continent. Here, everything the Serbian literary cooperative represents is said in the quote. The first law to regulate the functioning of the Serbian literary cooperative was passed in 1997. Thank you to the Ministry of Culture, which has been in line with all changes in law and time, which have occurred since then, decided to propose an amendment to this law and thus more precisely define the Serbian literary cooperative. What I want to remind the public is that the importance of the Serbian literary association for Serbian literature and culture is simply invaluable, especially if we have in mind the fact that since its founding on the head were our prominent writers, poets, academics, beginning with academics Stojan Novakovic, statesmen, scientists, writers. He was the first president of the Serbian Literature Association, and at a time when poet and doctor Jovan Jovanovic Zmaj was the first vice president, and historian Ljubomir Jovanovic was the first secretary of the Serbian Literature Association. I believe that this bill, which defines the Serbian Literature Association as a unique organisation of national importance for culture with the status of the association of citizens, but also with a special role, tasks and type of property, is an ideal solution that will allow for further smooth work of the KKZ, but also provide a safe source of funding for all publishing ventures of national importance. Once again, thank you to the Ministry of Culture for recognising the moment and in this sense we really support the adoption of this law, which permanently resolves the status of the SKZ, which is almost 130 years of the guardian of our culture and history. The second, no less important point is the selection of the National Council for Culture. He has 19 members and they are mostly from the order of prominent and affirmative artists and experts in culture and are elected for a period of five years. I'm saying this for the public. Why is it important that we have the National Cultural Council? At the moment when we are showered with daily, unfortunately, content that cannot be called culture or cultural events, the content that could by no means be called cultural and in this sense all the expensive, state institutions, cultural institutions, and especially the National Council for Culture must make even greater efforts in the field of promotion, above all, culture and the creation of a system of cultural values. For this reason, I support the selection of members of the National Council for Culture, and precisely with the belief that in the coming period we will give more and more media and financial space in creating a strategy for Serbia's culture, implementing cultural policy and developing all activities in the field of culture. Serbia has a huge cultural heritage and heritage that needs to be preserved and improved, and everything starts with a positive relationship between society and state institutions towards culture as such. So in voting day, the SPS MPs will support a set of proposed laws, including these two I spoke about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-11-0.u51623	Thank you. The word is Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-11-0.u51624	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the authorised representative of our parliamentary group, Honorable colleague Orlic, taxed today in his presentation of all the benefits that these bill proposals make for the citizens, and for the economy, both when it comes to draft laws and when it comes to numerous agreements, memoranda and protocols that are on the agenda today. Certainly, the SNS provides strong support for these legal proposals, but also for all other efforts by the Serbian and Serbian government when it comes to Serbia's overall development, when it comes to economic recovery, when it comes to economic growth, reducing unemployment, raising the standard of living for our citizens and everything else. Unfortunately or fortunately, we are today denied the presence of some MPs who call themselves the opposition. These are Gilas MPs who allegedly boycott parliament's work, allegedly boycotting the work of the National Assembly, and we found it to be a false boycott. A false boycott because they regularly charge the costs, charge neatly, or receive a neat salary, and everything else for a job that, by the way, they do not do. They probably have other obligations, probably to arrange a script for these protests they've had in recent days, but they don't have the courage to admit that they're the organizers of these protests, so they're hiding behind some calls of actors, so they're hiding behind some called artists, call a writer, etc. It wouldn't all be such a problem if she hadn't come up with a photo of her so-called. The leaders of these protests sit with representatives of a foreign embassy in a Belgrade hotel, you guess, it's the US Embassy. Here you can see Sergei Trifunovic, who is otherwise said to be an actor, and a few days ago he was elected president of a movement, and there's a Jelena Anasonovic, if I remember it well, she's probably an organizer, a formal organiser of those protests, with US Embassy third secretary Katarina Virginia Valzak. Now a logical question is raised here – what will the representatives of the US Embassy do in a meeting with the organisers of this protest? What kind of business do US embassy representatives have in common with protest organisers? Does the American Embassy have any part in these protests? If there are any participations, then it would be our turn to be told what their participation is and whether at least they will be fenced from the gallows and calls for hangings that the organizers insist on conducting. It would be fair for us to get answers to these questions and the US Embassy to officially declare it. All this reminds us of some earlier protests, an irresistible reminder of some earlier scenarios, of some earlier mixing of some embassies in Serbia into Serbia's internal affairs. However, this is no longer the same Serbia. This Serbia, today's Serbia, will not allow any scenarios, no fifth October, and in particular will not allow any scenario that envisions bloodshed. For the very end of undermining that all their calls for hanging, we respond to our decency, even more diligent and persistent work, and most importantly to the results that are visible at every turn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-11-0.u51625	The word is Jelena Vujic Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-11-0.u51626	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, before moving to a debate on the set of laws on the agenda, allow me to welcome the distinguished guests in the National Assembly, Minister Sarcevic and the distinguished Minister Vukosavljevic, as well as representatives of the High Council of the judiciary with their associates. All the proposed laws you have filed, a set of all laws, will have the support of the Single Serbia parliamentary group. Today, on the Committee on Foreign Affairs, we have had a bill to confirm the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Georgia, and we have given full support to this agreement concerning the abolition of visas for the holders of ordinary passports from these two countries. The Single Serbia parliamentary group believes that not only this agreement, but other agreements, as well as conventions, protocols, contracts, which are increasingly on the agenda of the assembly's decision, are of great importance to the Republic of Serbia. If we look back in the last twenty years, the National Assembly has never had this many proposed agreements and the favors of other countries, which contributes to the fact that it is increasingly enjoying a favourable international and diplomatic relationship with a large number of countries. We need to be very clear and precise, that the citizens of Serbia hear and know that Serbia is now very stable and that so far has been literally a mental directory, that a large number of countries, and now we have another country that has withdrawn recognition of the self-proclaimed state of Kosovo, so that absolutely great support and praise to Minister Dacic and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Also, the Single Serbia and Unique Serbia parliamentary group headed by our President Drago Markovic Palm gives full support to the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic, but what is very important is that we give full support to the citizens of Serbia, especially when it comes to young people, when it comes to the future and prosperity of our country, which certainly leads Serbia towards the right path at the moment. When it comes to the law in the field of education, science and technological development, distinguished Minister Sarčević, we have before us a bill on the foundations of education and education systems, then preschool and basic age. Almost all over Serbia, I come from the Municipality of Alexandrovac, but in almost all of Serbia we see today the simple fruits of joint work of the Ministry, schools and successful local self-government. One of these examples is Jagodina, where last week and solemnly, let me say, a reconstructed elementary school. The same case is, with your support, and with the support of the Investment Investments Office, and I really thank you for having applied, especially when it comes to rural schools, and absolutely approved funds for the reconstruction of the rural school in Ploča, then the reconstruction of the elementary school “Ivo Lola Ribar” in the Municipality of Alexandrovac. I also invite you to, given that you have the plan and programme to continue your further tour of schools and preschools in the coming period, to visit other rural schools of the Podkopalnica, Bruski and Zupski County, that is, of course, the whole of Serbia, where you do it daily, visit and face the problems of the current ones on the ground. This is not, of course, criticism. You have full support and you know it, the Members of the Single Serbia have, on several occasions, absolutely, given full support in everything you do, because I believe that all you do is in order to education our children more efficiently and efficiently. On the other hand, we have, like, these preschool institutions. I'm going to give a little suggestion here, too, since I'm from Alexander's municipality. There's a big problem here, especially when it comes to educators, where teachers wait 15, 20 years for employment. You know, since you come from education, what it means to an educator or an educator that he can't get to work. So I don't think that's the problem with your ministry. Generally, this problem should also be addressed with local self-governments, possibly extending technically, to say, the skills of these preschool institutions, because we think there are enough children to employ a new frame. Also, when it comes to this Law on elementary and preschool education and education, we don't have any important changes here, because we have already supported this law. It's mostly about, let me say, electronic data management. Another example is the return of a foreign language, i.e. The second foreign language in the educational evaluation program. I believe that by establishing a special commission, but, of course, the awareness of young people will stop the outflow of young people from abroad and that young people will also be guided by the principle that in our country it is still the most beautiful, that they went to school here, studied and go everywhere, but come to your home. Of course, together as a society, we must contribute to better quality education. When you came into office, you faced a major problem of inclusion and inclusive education, so you solved that problem, you solved it in walking, let me say, by further education of educators. You should also give full support to the educators, certainly and introduce them into that new class, when it comes to wages, but also educators themselves need to cultivate one love for their jobs, because education of our children may be the most important. The license went to 362 school principals. You're also forming a unique system, let's say, of education being managed, also, by the school's directors and all the problems and peer violence. Peer violence is also a problem faced in walking, not only large cities, but small cities. Even in the local self-government of the Municipality of Alexandrovac, where I come from, there was a problem in the primary school of peer violence and that of lower-class children. The budget surplus will certainly allow young talent and commission scholarships for the student, student standard, when it comes to children's homes, to give priority to children coming from within 200, 300km of distance. When it comes to the law proposed by representatives of the High Council of the judiciary, Mr Jovicic and your associate, you will have the full support of the Single Serbia parliamentary group. We have no doubt about the expertise of the election and the quality of the judges and our judicial system, so the parliamentary group will support the entire set of laws, the Single Serbia parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-11-0.u51627	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Muamer Bacevac. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-11-0.u51628	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is good that we are discussing some very important topics today, especially as we live in a time of rapid technological and scientific progress, and that the very progress of science requires that we, as a National Assembly, agree laws with the needs of society and education systems regarding these laws concerning pre-school education and education, basic education and education systems, the bill on amendments and additions to the Law of the Education and Education System and the Proposal for a Law on student standard. Why do I say that? We need our children through a system of education to be able to meet the challenges that await them in life, to be skilled enough, to be useful to themselves and to their family and society in which they live. It is not just enough to change the laws, it is also necessary to provide the children with the conditions to school, so even then the prime minister, and now President of the Republic of Serbia Aleksandar Vukic, has started a serious reconstruction of schools in Serbia, that children have the best possible conditions to work and that at school they are not threatened with any danger of being ill due to poor hygiene, and then some sick minds have called Alexander Vukic – prime minister for the toilet. I guess that's their way of fighting politically. Of course, these children are taught by teachers, teachers, teachers, and I guess their role is to transfer as much knowledge as possible to those children, and I believe that the largest and vast number of educators do so, the best they can and can. But, Mr. Ministers and Education, and Mr. Culture Minister, today in Serbia we have a certain population of educators, not to mention scientific workers, who call themselves the cultural elite and the scientific elite, and all others who do not share their political views call the citizens of the second order. I would ask one question – does any professor, any teacher, have the right to influence the children we send to schools in their political attitude that propagates violence? It's a very serious topic that we need to talk about because, as far as I know, this boy who wore hangers to the streets of Belgrade a minor and probably goes to a school. Then we had a memo, let me say, those intellectual elites that support a kind of political expression that calls for protests. I think these things are very serious and reflect one piece of infirmity. All the happiness of a small part of society in some desire does not bring Serbia into democracy, as they say, but anarchy. There's no colleagues here today from the former regime. They've never been here before. You know why they're not here? Because they can't get hangers into the National Assembly building and into this room. That's why they're not here. Because they can't publicly execute us here. That's why they don't come to the sessions. I can only say that they will not hang anyone, that this is not Robespere's time, but that Serbia is a modern, democratic state. They will never enter this building violently again, violently fire it and, under the pretext of some struggle for democracy and revolution, rob the state, lead Serbian citizens to a beggar stick and make them richer and richer. From this place, just because they are who they are, I can only tell them that the government wins the election and they will never be able to defeat Alexander Vukic and the SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-11-0.u51629	Thank you. The word is Milimir Vujadinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-11-0.u51630	Dear Presidents, honourable fellow MPs, respected members of the government, respected citizens, what we can say for sure is that in recent years Serbian education has experienced serious reforms. The proof of this is also the constant presence, i.e. the most frequent presence of Minister Sarčević, this respected House, which has spent perhaps the most time with us from all members of the government, explaining all the reforms of the laws we have adopted in recent years. However, we are also witnessing that you were not late when it comes to creating better conditions and rebuilding school institutions in the Republic of Serbia. I am extremely pleased that in some previous work you have not forgotten our children in the diaspora and the region. That's the current bill. You enabled them to attend Serbian schools, learn in Serbian and thus contribute to the preservation of the national identity of the Serb people in general, but taking care of costs, because their lecturers can now be people living in those communities and they do not have to be people coming from the Republic of Serbia. Also, when it comes to education, you have not forgotten neither student nor student standards and the fact is that you have separated the rights and obligations of students, who, above all, are adults and adult persons and are responsible for their actions from the rights and obligations of students, who are minors who we have to take special care of and especially when it comes to their safety. It is good that you have respected the suggestions of people in student resorts that this activity of student resorts is somewhat more defined, because realistically young people need more activity than it is work, than it is a vacation, so they create conditions for these student resorts to become, to say, some centres that will come up with serious ideas and serious knowledge of Serbia's future, which will make our society in general rest. When it comes to the law of culture and the question of the Serbian literary cooperative, it is commendable to the respected Minister Vukosavljevic that you have finally done the status of the Serbian literary cooperative, because he probably could not otherwise survive in the future, but I am obliged as someone who comes from Subotica, to give you thanks for everything you do together with the city administration and the mayor, when it comes to the completion of works and to the establishment of culture, above all to the National Theatre in Subotica, and it is an important thing for our city and I thank you very much on behalf of the people of Subotica for everything you do in that field. However, respected ministers, distinguished colleagues, respected citizens of Serbia, while the president of the state, you government members, your employees in institutions that are important to take care of, please continue to work to improve their material and any other status. While you are all working together on some useful thing and persistently, but surely you are pushing Serbia towards a better future, you have people from part of the opposition who every day are trying to restore destruction and bring this country back. To return it to the state that we had back about six, six and a half years, or two, two and a half years, when it came to the north of our country, or the northern Serbian province. I have to tell you, while you're also trying to talk about the standard of students and students, they call students in Serbia, here I'm going to quote you -- amazing smells, incredible scum, criminals and assholes. If you don't believe me, please look at the video from Saturday's gathering in Belgrade. Unfortunately, there have been some examples throughout the Republic of Serbia. While you are talking today about the Serbian Literature Association, the great Ćorovic, about its importance in defining the work of the Serbian Literature Association, on the other hand, you have a pretender at the position of the culture minister who celebrates Jovan Divika and you have people who insult the most brutally the Serbian patriarch. While President Vukic visits Serbia and talks to the people about what is important and what is needed for the people in Serbia, on the other hand, you have people who offer them the same people hanged on the terraces, as during World War II. While respected ministers, you send Serbian teachers abroad and into the diaspora and the region, you have Vuk Jeremic who goes to Sarajevo as well as abroad and in the most eerie way roses his own country and his own people, using every opportunity to insult the Republika Srpska. There's a lot of what I could name as an example, and this is what I wanted to do primarily because of the citizens of Serbia, the difference between work and work, between responsible politics, and fascism on the other hand, between decency and circuses that may still be funny, but God forbid, if it becomes real and becomes serious, then it becomes fatal, and examples of it are worldwide, in Libya, Syria, Ukraine, Venezuela, etc. I was just about to say that I am sure that Serbia is wise enough to recognize what is behind it and that it will know that it separates right from wrong and all that I've listed, but I don't think any reminder of these things can be excessive. With this in mind, as long as you work to create clear differences between these things, as long as you work for Serbia's progress, be sure that both you and the legal proposals you make in this distinguished parliament will have the support of parliament, but more importantly, the support of the Serbian people in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-11-0.u51631	Thank you. The word is from a colleague Jelena Žarić Kovačević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-11-0.u51632	Thank you. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have today several draft laws relating to the system of education and education. We also have an amendment to the arms and ammunition laws, as well as nuclear security and security on the agenda. However, there are a large number of proposals concerning the confirmation of agreements concluded between the Republic of Serbia and other countries. First of all, I will say that this is very important precisely because of the process of Serbia's EU accession, because of raising already good reputation in the international community and in the world, our country. I would like to remind you that the first chapters are open at the end of 2015 and precisely by working on laws, by confirming the agreement, but also by harmonising our legislation with EU rules, we are correcting Serbia's international reputation. What is of particular importance to us are the funds that we receive from international funds, from international sources, which for the last four years are 2.3 billion euros. Of course, it is about some EU grants, but it is also about the funds that we are withdrawing through the projects. For example, for public administration reform, for the development of transport infrastructure, for the development of local infrastructure, for reforms in the rule of law sector, for helping entrepreneurs and farmers, for the rehabilitation of the wells, for the construction of highways, for building refugee apartments, for projects in the field of health and for many other areas. With the intention to clearly see the difference between the two of us who are working here today and those MPs who have joined the Alliance for Serbia and who have decided to boycott today's session I have just cited all these areas in which the results have been achieved. The results are, of course, great and achieved both by this government and the previous government, and if I wanted to talk about it, it would take me a long time. I am sorry that those MPs who are part of the Alliance for Serbia are not here to hear from us what we have to say about the results achieved and to hear how we will discuss the proposals of the laws that are before us. I suggest, since they decided to boycott the session and didn't decide to boycott the salaries, that all that money that was theirs, when it came to their account, payments, for example, for humanitarian purposes. But on the other hand, I still think I realized that I'm asking the wrong people to be people. So on the one hand, we have a policy that has plans for the future. If we just remember that in the last five years 180 factories and factories have been built, it's a policy that we will continue to implement. If we remember that wages and pensions are increased, and we know that there is an announcement that pensions and pensions continue to increase, if we know that the budget is now stable, we know that it will continue with that policy. And what do we have on the other side? On the other hand, we have a policy offered by the Alliance for Serbia, a policy of violence, a policy of hate, gallows, threats, the drawing of a target on the foreheads of all political insinuators, the accounting of political insinuators. It's the Alliance for Serbia's policy, it's a policy of unhappiness and destruction of Serbia. Just because they have nothing but bids, I have no doubt that any subsequent SNS elections will win. Because they don't have the policy they're going to put across from us, which they might offer to our citizens. Just because I want to support the policy led by Aleksandar Vukic, led by this government, I will also support these proposals before us today in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-11-0.u51633	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Zoran Bojanić. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-11-0.u51634	Thank you, Your Honor. Gentlemen Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, and this set of laws and agreements says that we are on the right path, that we have, and the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic and this Government and this assembly majority, and the mission and vision, and that we are thinking about the future. To think about the future, unlike those who are not there today, who have no idea, who do not offer a fight of opinion, a fight of ideas, but offer hangers, from those who ate and stole the future, and we remember that well. This people are not so forgetful that they think that those who are many years ago, that is, for many, 12 years they have been in power, offered 500 euros, right behind the border, only to submit someone from power, that they will go through it again. He won't. This set of laws and here I will mention first and foremost the Law on the Serbian Literature Society, says that we are not just thinking about the future, that we are thinking about the past, about our history and that we appreciate what someone else has done. In 1892, if I remember correctly, a Serbian literary cooperative was established. It took 22 years for someone to come and amend the law that was passed in 1977. That says a lot. It says we appreciate ourselves, and if we value ourselves, others will appreciate us. The second set of laws I would like to mention is a set of education laws, where the roof law on the foundations of education and education systems is and where it has been established for these years and a half or something a little stronger that there are a lot of elements to be changed. This also speaks positively of the Ministry and the Government, that walking is seen as having, after all, it is here mainly because of some technological innovations, but also because of the environment, and because of the way of life, and because of everything, that some parts of the law that we, which this same congregation majority adopted in 2017, need to be changed. As a result, the Law on basic education and pre-school education are also amended, in particular by harmonising themselves with this basic of its roof law, where certain provisions are specified, it is regulated and improved and harmonised with some new European norms. What I would like to mention and say a lot about this parliamentary majority, about this government and about the President of the Republic, is that at last someone put it on the agenda, or put it on the agenda, once upon a time we separated from Montenegro, a set of agreements that would define border crossings, which regulate relations between border and border, above all Serbia-Montenegro. Did we have to wait so many years to do that? So again, it's someone who thinks about the future, who doesn't want tails, who doesn't want uncleared past relationships. And what makes me particularly happy is the proposal for an air traffic agreement between Canada and the Republic of Serbia. I'm glad we're sure, in the voting day, that agreement will be accepted and, again, I'm going back to the future, it's about us thinking about the future, we think, someone says there's 300,000 and someone says 700 thousand of our emigrants in Canada, who will have the opportunity to direct flight from some two cities, whether it's Toronto and Ottawa, or some other, come to their homeland. And not that they will come into their homeland, but they will open up a lot of it, above all in economic development and economic and trade relations between Canada and the Republic of Serbia. After all, rarely anyone has direct flights to Canada. All surrounding countries, from those former republics of the old Yugoslavia, will be able to fly across the ocean from Belgrade or another airport from Serbia. I'd stop here, because a lot of it's been said in previous exhibitions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-11-0.u51635	Thank you. The word is from a colleague of Studenka Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-11-0.u51636	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected ministry representatives, as far as today's agenda is concerned, I am particularly pleased with the point concerning the proposal for a law on the validation of the Financial Treaty, the development of river transport infrastructure in Serbia, between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank, since I have always felt that the internal network of waterways should be used to the maximum and to put it into service of water transport. This project is very useful for the Republic of Serbia because improving all infrastructure elements of internal water transport, i.e. ports and waterways, contributes to the development of the transport network. 30/3BM/LjL Water transport, as already well known, is the cheapest type of transport, which will significantly reduce transport costs. The funds needed to cover the cost of the project, with an estimated value of around 204.35m euros, will be provided from the loan of the European Investment Bank of 100m euros and from EU grants and the budget of the Republic of Serbia totalling 104.35m euros. The project will cover the following activities: the expansion of the capacity of the decommissioning terminal and the general burdens of Luke Smederevo, which will contribute to the economic development of the Podunavski and Braničev County; then, the adaptation of the ship's conductors in the composition of the Đerdap I and Đerdap II hydropower and navigation systems; as I come from eastern Serbia, I can tell you that this has not been invested in the past 50 years; then, hydrotechnical and Bageric works on the regulation of critical sectors on the Sava; then, hydrotechnical and Bageric works on the arrangement of 17 critical sectors on the part of the Danube water road which are divided by the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Croatia; the extraction of the submerged German fleet from the Second World War of the Danube, which affects the security of navigation systems; implementation of the hydro-meteination of the Danube system in the security of the Danube, security of the Danube border and security of the border management of Serbia; and control of the security of the security of the security system; and control of the security of the security of the security of the security of the border, security of the security of the security of the border of the security of the border of the security of the border of the border of the state; the security of the security of the security of the security of the security of the border of the security of the security of the security of the security of the security of the security of the security of the security of the security of the security of the security of the security of the security of the security of the security of the security of the security of the security of the security of the security of the security of the security of the security of the security of the security of the security of the security of the security of the security of the security of the security of the security of the security of the security of the security of the security of the security of the security of the security of the security of the security of the security of the security of the security of the security of the security of the security of the security of the security of the security of the security of the security of the security of the security of the security of the security of the security of the security of the security of the security of the security of the security of the security of the security of the security of the security of the security of the security of the This is briefly about this project, which will have a major impact on the development of the economy after realisation and will contribute significantly to the filling of the state register, and will also reflect positively on the development of those districts that have access to the Danube and Sava. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-11-0.u51637	Thank you. The word is from a colleague Veroljub Matic. The word has a folk MP, Serbia's Filipovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-11-0.u51638	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the respected citizens of Serbia who follow the transfer of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and who have had the opportunity to listen to everything that is new to us in the educational system in previous exhibitions of both ministers and my distinguished colleagues, and when it comes to the education system, to amend and supplement the laws that are on the agenda. Also, we've had a chance to hear what the ones whose benches are empty today are offering us, but I'd say, not just today. He is trying to make the alliance to strangle and rape Serbia, which calls itself the Alliance for Serbia, to say that they are boycotting parliament's work today and that for some reason they are not coming to meetings today, so those benches are empty at almost every session. They come in for half an hour, an hour, when they lay down payment by the tycoon Dragan Gilas, gargle what they have, pick up their purses, purses, and right into one of the nearby cafes. So, if the citizens don't mind this ugly weather outside, they can walk down Kosovo Street and see the full cafes of these opposition MPs gathered around the tycoon, Dragan Gilas. The lay payment today and those faster-better right to the cafes, there is no time for a job from where the salary is received, from the budgets filled by all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, to God who are terribly concerned. And so they care about the citizens of Serbia that in one of their famous tweets, because they can't write anything longer than tweets, those 120 and something as characterful as they are, that's the maximum they can write, that's how much their psychological capabilities give them to express themselves, that's kind of barely with that hesteg, so they say, we'll sit down, so we'll make a plan and program. Right, they'll make a plan and a program. They also made the plan and the programme is best painted in their case through the gallows and that's what they offer to Serbian citizens, and that's what we have to do, as decent and normal people, as SNS MPs, as people who have received the trust to care for the future of citizens, all Serbian citizens, we have the obligation to tell society what dangers can be overcome over this country if, as one of the professors from the Faculty of Philosophy, inspired people, don't God ever come to power again. When they wear hangers, when they threaten to kill, beat up, when they destroy our private property, it's an inspiration. Then you're terribly inspired, I don't just know what. Are you inspired by some white powder or something? I guess it's inhaled, not inspired. Then so excited and motivated to go out to the streets with gallows and say -- here, Serbian citizens, we're going to hang this on the terraces, where the Nazis and fascists were hanged in 1941, here, we're going to hang all those who are against robbing Serbia, we're going to hang those who are for modernising our education system, we're going to hang those who want more highways, we're going to hang those who want better homes of health, those who want better schools, we're going to hang just those people who don't want to hang at the Faculty of Philosophy in Belgrade than a normal toilet, we're going to hang these people. Because it doesn't fit our concept of seeing and making politics in the Republic of Serbia, because there's no way to combine anymore. The Serbian Progressive Party, on the other hand, offers our children laptops, offers books, offers knowledge, offers children to choose colleges that they will study, a profession they will do when they finish their studies, offers jobs, offers ideas, offers them better lives, offers them to learn foreign languages, to advance, to create families. That is how measures have been taken to increase the birth rate in Serbia. And how can a citizen feel, a normal man, when you take out his gallows? They say they want to stop the drain of people from here. So how come a normal man doesn't get scared of it and don't think about leaving when he sees such a scary picture that someone inspired came out with gallows on the street? Of course, thank God, in Serbia 90% of people are against such phenomena, because it's not even politics, it's a phenomenon, it's an evil phenomenon, an evil cob that has appeared in Serbia in the last 15, 20 years, which Serbian citizens have regularly cut down, which elections are all smaller, and I believe that like those weeds that last with acid spill and disappear, they will lose their wages, so after the next elections as weeds, they will never have the chance to disappear again, nor to destroy, nor to beat, nor to humiliate anyone in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-11-0.u51639	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-11-0.u51640	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, distinguished citizens of Serbia, I have reported that I am mostly talking about international agreements that we have on the agenda today, 24 such agreements, we have protocols of various, conventions and confirmation of different agreements, laws on these agreements. But for starters, I must, motivated by the debate that was conducted today, look back at the part my colleagues talked about, about education, where the government's programme was mentioned most. Some of them, as I've noticed, even criticized it here, which I don't even know how or why. The story of the digitisation of Serbia, of modern technologies, of robotics and everything that awaits us. I am convinced, Minister, that you know that beside the very system of education, these are the topics that need to be more and more taken place in our education. Here, I'll give you an example from my house. My daughter Angelia is six-and-a-half years old, only in September in the first grade, she's already working alone with an android phone and a laptop. They're new generations, that's the future. We must adjust our terms to them. So we have to bring our country to such a level that they have the same conditions, that our children have the same conditions as children in the modern world. Unfortunately, we still have to say, both technologically and in each other, especially in the technological part, are ahead of us, still strong, even though in this particular activity we are one of the most advanced nations and the fastest to reach modern currents in the world. What's the answer to that? The answer to that, I must say, let them, even if some colleagues get angry, I do not understand the name Alliance for Serbia in these political objections, they cannot be the Alliance for Serbia, because we have seen what they offer in relation to this. They can be an alliance for themselves, for example, but for Serbia it is difficult. Here, we saw what they're offering. To this response to Serbia's digitisation of modern education and everything else we do, they are, one of them here, a colleague of Bosko Obradovic brought a rock for pressing the cabbage in the helmet and tried to talk to us here with an example of the stone. On the other hand, the People's Messenger Nogo wears, pay attention to the expression – the model of the gallows. Watch out, hanger model. The model serves in the economy, serves in science, to show something that is your product or project you're working on. So even if you're wearing something you call a model, it's something that's your product, it's something you're offering, it's something you want to show your customers, your clients. In the case of a political organisation for citizens who are offered as an alternative to this government. So we're working on the digitisation of Serbia, and they're working to make Belgrade's terraces better for the gallows, and now it's competition. That's why I don't think they're the Alliance for Serbia, but an alliance for themselves. They have objections, they say they live in a non-democratic society, that it's dark around them, and at that time we are doing it years ago, but today I repeat, we are doing 24 international agreements, protocols, conventions with countries, such as the United States, Hungary, Georgia, United Arab Emirates, Israel, Canada, India, Azerbaijan. The European Investment Bank, my colleague used to say, we don't have the sea, but we have the Danube and one of these agreements is very important for the city from which I come for Smederevo, because this agreement is called, I will read the whole title for people to know – the bill on confirming the financial contract, the development of river, transport infrastructure in Serbia between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank. Well, how come the European Investment Bank with one dictatorial Serbia is doing projects like this. We heard, therefore, among other things, the port facilities will be increased, there are also private ports, there is also a port of its ironworks on the coast of Dunava near Smederev and this way we will develop it, and the colleague explained what else is. For us, the Danube is also very important as a waterway that connects us to all of Europe, but that connects us to the Black Sea. The whole road is closer to us, let's say for Russia's market, as it connects us to the EU markets with the cheapest transport, and where are colleagues? Where are your colleagues to say what's the objection to this? Where are they to say if this isn't good? We were never, then, respected in all international institutions, and what was done in those four years. As far as I know, we were just discussing Eulex once and that's it. When EULEX was brought instead of UNMIK to Kosovo and that is it, that is all for four years of international co-operation. Nothing, and today when you look in all areas and in education cooperation and here in transport, in traffic, we have, we are constantly performing at various forums across Europe and all Serbian lawmakers are respected and a completely different relationship than there used to be with our delegations. We have a President of the Republic who is respected, who has seen some Prime Ministers or Prime Ministers, it is already a two-digit figure for his two years, as well as one Prime Minister's mandate, four years, and ten times has seen some very important people like Angela Merkel, Putin again, we don't have to talk about names, we can talk about institutions, because some country presidents, or the Prime Ministers like Austria, France, etc., but everyone still talks to Serbia, even when the political options change, left-right. What's here that we saw from the alliance for ourselves? They went to the European Parliament and announced it I don't know how, received by a small group of MPs, left orientations, signs, opposition from Slovenia and Croatia. So where are they from other EU countries? They didn't understand each other, they were having a hard time agreeing with the language, so it was easier for them to talk to the former Yugoslavians. Where are the others? More lies, they say Mr. McAllister will see the opposition for the first time. Well, that's not true. Every time he sits here with opposition people, even one meeting Mr. Tadic left in half, because he had more important things to do, so he also made an incident and scandal. This is where it happened, in this assembly, less than two years ago. So it's all happening and doing. The citizens of Serbia need to know, we will continue to do this and these international agreements that are good for Serbia, because somebody tell me what's wrong with the proposal for a law on the certification of a convention relating to safety and health in agriculture, which is also, if we want to compete on various markets with our agricultural products, we need to follow the standards that are important in these countries and bring them to us at a certain level. We saw what we had to do to export to a non-EU country, to Turkey, veal, and how we had to prepare ourselves to be able to export, but we came to the situation that we now slowly increase these exports. It's the only solution, the tenacity, the diligence and the continuing to work hard. I know that Serbian citizens have confidence in the SNS, in President Vukic and that we will continue to do this openly, and let them walk, let them wear gallows, let them offer the future they offer, let them say what the future they offer, because I know that Serbian citizens will never accept it. Thank you again and of course I'll vote for this proposed agenda and all the bill proposals.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-11-0.u51641	Thank you. The word is made by MP Milan Knezevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-11-0.u51642	The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here we have today on the agenda of the Assembly of Four Laws concerning Education and Education, and although in the previous two years we have had several of these laws that have brought some improvements to function, both pre-school, so basic, middle and higher education. Here, however, I would refer to some discussions of my colleagues about the signatures that have been collected these days by university professors, according to my colleague Arsic, according to those who signed and for the opposition, they are teachers, university teachers of the first order, and these others are the second order. Of course, I don't feel that way, so I'd like to ask Professor. The Atlagic who was watching this Copson, not to declare us subjective, Professor, enter the Copson and see what my status is on the Copson, so let's sort out a little bit. The other thing is Minister Sarcevic, some current events involving, unfortunately, teachers and some university professors, certainly affect education in a certain way, youth. I'd do two examples in that context. I would like to read the first example of how at one of these gatherings, writer Marko Vidojković insulted the professors of law school. I want to give them support, so that the ugliest words don't pay attention, that's more about him. So, I'm reading because of citizens, who probably didn't even read or hear about the Law School being laid down by rats, crime, corruption, and that's where the lowlifes and bandits sit. Is this a level of democratic dialogue or is this a hate speech? I think this is a hate speech. The other thing, in my Kragujevac, I'm an MP from that city, an actor in an attempt to be president of one movement, most of us heard it at a speech in the heart of the forest saying that both left-handed and right-handed care to have stripes, roads, justice, that works. Of course, but these stripes and roads have been built these five years, not in their time in various variants of the yellow company. And now whether they have a picture of Draža Mihajlovic, Dimitri Ljotic or Broza at home, or I don't know Koce Popovic, it's a completely irrelevant thing. This sentence says that man doesn't know where he is, he doesn't look at historical facts, he doesn't know how he's affecting the current situation. How does it matter who Dimitri Ljotic is? According to some historians, he is believed to have been the biggest traitor in the region, worse than Ante Pavelic, because Ante Pavelic and his constitution killed members of other peoples, which is genocidal, which is sad, and Ljotic participated in mass crimes against Serbs, in Kragujevac his members collected, participated in the leadership of both students and patriots of the shooting. How is it irrelevant? Minister Sarcevic and teachers in elementary and high school need a little more, however, since this has been happening, it now looks a little more like a malicious approach to me that they might want some redefinition of history which is a patriot, who is a fellow fascist, that teachers of history explain a little bit more and more who Dimitar Ljotic is, that he is also a traitor, and that his so-called volunteers who were not because they received a salary from fascist Germany and those who fled and went to Germany, received a pension as soldiers of Vermarhta. I needed to say it, because it's in my town where the shooting students, where the shooting teachers, where the shootings were honest patriots, those members of Ljotic participated. And that actor wants to be the leader of some movement, some democratic, opposition movement, I don't even know what it belongs to when it doesn't matter to him. I may have the wrong approach, but I think I have the right approach, so he doesn't know what he's saying or where he is. One more thing, the Jewish municipality of Belgrade sent a letter protesting to the actor, and this is an educational statement I want to read because of citizens, where they say, "Our members are people of various political preferences. They're both on the left and right side of the political spectrum, but there's no discussion about one thing, that everyone who worked with the occupier and who sent our ancestors to death against whom we're going to report yesterday and today and tomorrow. “ Now, look at the reactions and see what kind of leader it will be. I repeat this for the citizens and for the people to think, when someone can't make a distinction, the word remains written but it speaks of someone's thinking. As far as these laws are concerned, let me comment in a few minutes, because my colleagues have said everything in detail. Through all four laws, it is mentioned that all and all these solutions must be guided in a unique information system of enlightenment. This should be said because the previous laws have only been electronically noted, and now that this unique information system has already been significantly upgraded, it must enter the legislation. I would like to welcome that two schools, a natural and mathematical high school in Belgrade and Novi Sad, have been declared national institutions, is a big deal. These are schools that have a long tradition, whose students, students, have won great awards, which today have a high level of teaching and work, with these students, respecting their talent, but should think about it because maybe because we also have in Kragujevac high school, one of the oldest in Serbia, whether in some future some of these old schools, high school, deserve to be ranked like this. I am glad to say that, even moreover, this law regulates and will be a reference, to use institutions, or schools for students with disabilities and disabilities, which will be the basis for the ministers to bring them to be reference institutions and, as necessary, even though teachers who work with them have higher education, but it takes a bit of discreet and specific education and training of teachers to raise and increase the standard of competence in the education of these students, and thus also in those schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-11-0.u51643	Thank you. She is a colleague of Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-11-0.u51644	Thank you. The respected chairman, respected ministers with associates, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, for the president of the Republic, for the president of the SNS education is a prerequisite for development, education is a prerequisite for progress, education is a prerequisite for the remaining of our educated and professional people in Serbia, education is certainly an investment, education is certainly not a cost. In the education system and in the education plan, the Government and the Ministry have taken huge and significant steps, all in order to achieve the effectiveness of education and full involvement of students, teachers in the educational process, with adequate and complete co-operation and others in the educational process, and above all I think about the parents of students, particularly those of pre-school and primary education. Also, major progress on the education plan since SNS arrived was made at a time when Alexander Vukic was prime minister, which is by introducing dual education. Why is the introduction of dual education important to our education system? Why is it important for Serbia's progress and development? Why is it important for our students? Because the interruption of the acquisition was exclusively theoretical knowledge which was neither functional nor applicable on the market, nor was it useful for employers, nor could such students be adequately and quickly involved in the process of work. Dual education certainly is a very significant step forward on the plan for further efficiency of education and on the plan for further development of our society. What I also want to point out is amendments and additions to the Preschool Education and Education Act. We've heard today that they're fundamentally and they're not very large, but they're essential. Why are they essential? Because electronic records and electronic documentation and how significant it is in terms of efficiency in the management of public documents in order to effectively exchange data, e.g. in the issue of translators, when a child moves from one preschool to another or when a child is given confidence that a child attends preschool or that a child attends primary school. So efficiency and digitization and how it came to life. It's also digitization, and it's how it's brought to life in the education system. All of this certainly contributes to the effectiveness of education itself, but also to the degree of increased satisfaction both parents and students and teachers. What I also want to praise and what, unlike those who have kidnapped and robbed children distracted by development, the SNS and this Government and how, on the plan of education and development of each child, according to its potential and abilities, it is the full involvement of children with special needs in the educational process, in order to gain all the necessary skills and knowledge for their longer independent life. What's it gonna take? In order to adequately develop the potential of each student with special needs, and as important as it is, the proposed law and proposes, to acquire the additional knowledge and skills of teaching staff working with such students, so that they, through the acquisition of new knowledge, can contribute to a better quality of education for children with special needs. Also, I would like to point out that grading the second foreign language from the fifth grade in primary schools and how significant it is from the aspect of additional motivation of students to gain as much knowledge as possible when it comes to language education. We know that knowledge of foreign language and learning on the agenda of language education, language culture and how important it is for modern development, and ultimately, from the aspect of every student, every child, but also important from the aspect of the progress of the Republic of Serbia. What I also want to point out, and for the first time introduced, is to confirm the law relating to the Convention on Safety and Health in Agriculture. Why is this convention important? Because for the first time, one government and the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vucic shows full readiness to protect the health and safety of all those employed as seasonal workers in agricultural land and who do agricultural work in an adequate manner. It's never existed before. What is significant, and concerns this Convention, is that the adoption of adequate legal solutions will follow this Convention, that these legislative solutions will also determine the competences of the institutions and the competences of the Government and the jurisdiction of employers, but that both workers and those working on agricultural affairs will be actively involved. The result of the SNS government is 180 new factories. The result of the SNS government is the opening of new kindergartens, new schools, new hospitals. The result of the SNS rule is that in almost no city, there are no more schools in any municipality that are not renovated, adapted, in which there are no improved working conditions for both students and teachers. I'm from Pryboy. There is a renovation of two schools, so that the students of that time they spend at school feel as comfortable as possible, and teachers also, by fulfilling their work obligations, feel comfortable. Also, when parents send children to school now know that children at school will not get any infectious diseases from dirty toilets, nor from dirty and unsanitary proper water to get many diseases. The Serbian Progressive Party is based on care for every citizen of the Republic of Serbia, taking care of Serbia's progress and future. It's a policy that has no alternative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-11-0.u51645	Thank you. The word is from a colleague of Dušica Stojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-11-0.u51646	Thank you. Dear fellow ministers, dear fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, this is a really good time to show by what we as SNS are different from the part of the opposition that has today decided to boycott the work of the Serbian parliament, while on the agenda are really important and very important laws that will move forward, which will modernise Serbian society, which will really improve the business environment. Today we are discussing important international agreements, discussing significant changes and additions to laws in the field of education, student standards, the Serbian Literature Association and many important laws that will improve the quality of life of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. On the other hand, we have those who boycott their work, but I would say, they don't boycott their salary, they don't boycott the cobwebs, they don't boycott all the privileges they have as MPs. But I could say as someone who came from Belgrade that it was already seen by Dragan Gilas, who did not work either in the City Assembly or in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and how he raised the diaries and how he received the salary. But I will return to important international agreements, agreements and laws that will modernise Serbian society. One of those agreements is an agreement ahead of us. It is about confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Transport Community. I remind you, this is the continuation of the Treaty establishing the Transport Community, adopted by the National Assembly in December 2017. What does the Transport Community of the Western Balkans bring us, and what are these benefits for the citizens and the Serbian economy? Transport is the generator of every society's development. The Western Balkan Transport Community will truly represent a new energy in the Western Balkans region, which we have missed. We've been listening for decades, I've been in Belgrade and the Republic of Serbia, and I've really been listening to decades about our geostrategic position, about the advantages that this position has had, but let's look ourselves in the eye and see what we've really done about our key corridors, about the traffic connection, about building our infrastructure. What is this condition we inherited, and what have we done in this previous period as SNS? These are the answers to questions that I will consider in my presentation today. I would like all the MPs and all the citizens of Serbia and to learn about the everyday life on Serbian roads and at our border crossings. According to IMF data, we are estimated to lose 26 million hours a year for waiting for a goods truck at the border. From 22 days, trucks in Serbia wait on average for seven to two days, or 48 hours. When we look at the level of realization, realisation is 50% smaller than a fellow trucker abroad. I would say that we have one country that is not an EU member, I mean the Republic of Georgia, where at the border crossings trucks wait only seven minutes. These are things we have to think about. These are the things that we must offer adequate answers and find adequate solutions and this agreement that we are discussing today, the agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Transport Community on the establishment of a Permanent Secretariat based in Belgrade, will very much remove these, I would say, physical, but also administrative barriers that so far existed at our border crossings and when it comes to transport, not only in the Republic of Serbia, but in the entire Western Balkans region. We can't ignore this market. It is about the size of a business order of around 800,000 euros, how much is paid for the different types of services at the border crossings. We must continue to develop our routes, rail traffic, to expand our border crossings, such as the Batrovac border crossing, increasing traffic flow capacity by as much as 50%. Republika Srpska, the government of the Republic of Serbia has realised a successful reconstruction of the Batrovac border crossing, increasing traffic levels from 12 to 18 traffic lanes. Last week, we had the opportunity to see in the means of public information that the Baemok border crossing financed by EU funds was also reconstructed, and this is good news for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and for the Serbian economy that we missed very much in these previous years. By investing in infrastructure, we will indeed have more benefits. On the one hand, we will attract new foreign investors and create new jobs. On the other hand, under the conditions of world globalisation, the important precondition of each country is that it has well-developed transport infrastructure and efficient transport. However, building transport infrastructure is one really demanding, large, complex job, a job full of challenges. You must create long-term plans. These plans must apply to a period of four, of eight years. You must have good projects. You must have stable sources of funding. Also, you have to have control of the whole process in order not to have a variety of abuses. Our goal is to really create an attractive environment for our domestic investors, so that we have new technologies, new jobs, more productivity and the opening of our markets. Given the country's strategic position mentioned earlier, I could say that in this entire Western Balkans region, we do have a large number of companies operating in the EU, as well as domestic companies that produce, their services, their goods export to the regional market, the European market and the world market, and we have to offer adequate answers to them. They can't wait any longer, because if they wait, I'm afraid they'll look the other way, and they'll focus their direction on the other side, which will bypass this region. Given this country's strategic position, the very European integration of the Republic of Serbia will contribute once more to the integration of the transport system into the regional transport system and finally to the EU itself. A good indicator of this in addition to this Transport Community Agreement, signed in December 2017 by the National Assembly, is also the Danube Strategy, but also the Adriatic-Ionian Strategy. The contract signed by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in December 2017, which refers to the formation of a transport community, is simply a new momentum for the whole region. I will remind you, at the London Summit in July of last year, the Republic of Serbia signed an agreement with the European Commission on the establishment of a Permanent Secretariat of the Transport Community based in Belgrade and Belgrade will become one hub of regional transport connectivity of the entire Western Balkans region, which is indeed excellent news for citizens and for the economy of our country. Also, this and the previous agreement that we are discussing today will in a better way define long-term plans for the construction of transport, infrastructure projects and will be implemented together with all signatories of the Western Balkans, but as a guarantee of all this will be the EU. I will remind you, the moment the decision is made that the headquarters will be in Belgrade, stable sources of income are provided, 80% of the financial resources will be provided by the EU, the part relating to transport, while the rest of the money will be provided through co-financing, i.e. the Republic of Serbia, through the purchase of necessary equipment and furniture. These projects concerning better transport connections will relate to the modernisation of railways, to the construction of ports, roads, airports, container terminals and logistics centres, to all that we really missed in the former Yugoslavia's space in the previous years, the previous decades, the previous centuries. We can see today many Asian lands ahead of us. Both Azerbaijan and Georgia and many other Asian countries that and how they can be good examples of how we can use the benefits of a transit country and the benefits of a country that is indeed located in strategic corridors. Also, at the Ministerial Summit, I would like to remind all my people's colleagues, in Brussels on 6 December 2017, the important decision was made to keep the Permanent Secretariat of the Transport Community in Belgrade. These are agreements that, I could say, are a policy of the future, not a policy of the past, a policy of lynching, violence, proscration, various insults, a policy of hangings that we can see every day in the streets of Serbia, which part of the Serbian opposition, part of the Alliance for Serbia is propagating. That's what separates us from them. We differ from them because we really offer concrete answers to the problems of Serbian citizens, to the problems of the Serbian economy. We offer concrete solutions and these laws represent a kind of system approach so that we can improve the infrastructure in our country, how we can create dual education, how we can employ some new young force and prevent brain drains, the outflow of young highly educated people from our country. It's never been so much, I'd say, to invest, as it has invested in these past four years. We can see statistics in the past 40 years, Minister Sarčević, when it comes to the construction of highways. In just four years in the Republic of Serbia, the government of the Republic of Serbia, along with its foreign partners, has indeed shown that it is investing with attention in building infrastructure. Over the past four years, 200km of highways have been invested. We're not gonna stop with those papers. The responsible policy of SNS and President Alexander Vucic is such that we will start projects, which some other authorities have started in the previous period, to end. I come from Belgrade, from the township of Rakovica, I live near the Belgrade bypass, and I could really send out a number of ministers, a number of officials of previous regimes that were photographed on the Belgrade bypass and they said – it is almost finished, but here it will be finished. Even to this day, the Belgrade bypass is not finished, and it is built. The government of the Republic of Serbia has provided significant funding for the completion of a 19.5km-long Belgrade bypass project for sector B. A number of other directions and indeed responsible SNS policy are being built on real promises. All that we promise the people, we do it all the way, no matter who started it or not. To return to the Transport Community, the Transport Community projects are indeed resting on well-planned and well-established projects aimed at realising, building highways. These highways will be built in the previous period, and the Republic of Serbia has shown responsibility and is ready to have really good projects. It is about the Peace highway, which will connect Belgrade-Nish-Medara and Pristina, as well as the Belgrade-Sarajevo highway, the reconstruction of a railway railway that will connect Belgrade-Nish but also better traffic connection with our neighbours, Bulgaria, Romania, Hungary and other countries located in our neighbourhood. By adopting this agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Transport Community on the establishment of a permanent secretariat based in Belgrade, we will in fact legally frame one dynamic that we started with the Treaty establishing the Transport Community, and the benefits from the adoption of this and the previous agreement will indeed be multiple. For all these reasons, I support the formation of a single Transport Community that will operate according to EU standards. These are the standards in the business that we missed and how we missed them in the previous period. I think this is a really good opportunity and to increase efficiency and reduce the costs of our business in the Republic of Serbia, whether they are domestic or foreign, for goods to be cheaper, but also for domestic transport companies to be more competitive and that they can indeed measure equal forces with their EU counterparts. The benefits of these multiple benefits are not only seen in that we will actually copy and harmonize certain regulations with the EU, that we will coordinate our legislation, but we will remove all those administrative barriers that were related to tuning into the European Customs Union, as well as continuing the construction of highways, continuing construction of ports, customs terminals, container terminals, but also creating a new business environment that will and how to attract new foreign investment and to create new jobs in our country. In addition to the political interests, which are really important, I would say that even more important are the satisfactions of these economic interests of the Republic of Serbia, when we talk about the transport community. Economic interests are seen in this regional connection, regional integration is the only way to get signatories, which are signatories of the Western Balkans and so on for the EU itself. I would say, the Republic of Serbia, or the EU, really have a great interest in transiting through the Western Balkans, is it that I would like to remind all my fellow MPs, all citizens of the Republic of Serbia that when we talk about transit and transport through the Western Balkans, we are talking about a route that is the cheapest and the shortest route. It is wrong for the whole Serbian public to think that the Transport Community covers only the area of infrastructure projects. It's always something more, through the realization of this project we have important touch points with other areas, with other aspects. Transport is often linked to those European standards that we miss in our business, on customs relief. This often refers to those social issues, environmental protection and market access. There are indeed a large number of EU companies in the Western Balkans area, as well as domestic companies, to which we must respond to the problems they face daily in their business. We must lead to better regional integration and remove all those physical and administrative barriers that were in the previous period so that domestic businessmen who operate and transit with their goods, services, capital could be more competitive with their colleagues on the European market. In the end, I want to remind you of one fact. We can't ignore this market. When we talk about the Western Balkans, we are talking about a market that is about 20 million people, which cannot be underestimated at all. We need to create these standards that we're missing so far and we need to create free flow of goods and services, to facilitate business, because business can't wait. Those who invest money, who invest in new investments, who operate outside our country, use this space to transit their goods and to place their goods and can make a very easy decision to look the other way and turn to the other direction. Another important note. By building better highways we will indeed put into the first plan this aspect of security, security on our roads in Serbia, we will remove and reduce those black spots and reduce the number of deaths on our roads, remove all those narrow throats at our border crossings, that, in order to mention in my opening presentation, truckers would not wait seven to two days to cross the border crossing. The entire EU rests on the single market on four basic freedoms, on freedom of movement of goods, labour, capital and services. We have positive examples during the history of European relations. Many EU countries first integrated together and then became an integral part of the EU. An example of this is Visegrad Group, which was formed in the Hungarian town of Visegrad, I will remind you in 1991, which joined together. Afterwards, Slovakia came to them, and then as an act of major enlargement of the candidate countries, they became a full member of the EU on 1 May 2004. So in regional integration, we see really a chance to start the entire development of our society, the Republic of Serbia and the entire Western Balkans region. In this regard, I call on all my fellow Members of the People to support the adoption of this very important international agreement that will enable our country, our citizens indeed to improve the quality of life, which will enable our businesses to have more humane and better business conditions. By this we as SNS differ from the part of the Serbian opposition because we show future policy in action, we work every day to create a better business environment for our companies that operate in our country, but also for all of our builders who want to have better conditions and better quality of life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-11-0.u51647	Thank you. A colleague of Sonja Vlahović has the word. He's not here. The word has the People's MP Milan Krivokapic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-11-0.u51648	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear ministers, respected representatives of the VSS, colleagues and colleagues, today I will say something about the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Student and Student Standard, as well as the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on radiation and nuclear safety and security. There was an imminent need for the area of student and student standards to be brought into line with the new legislation adopted in the area of secondary and higher education. This proposal for a law relating to the applicable law contains solutions that better regulate issues relating to student and student standards and, above all, to provisions in which the decision-making process is more specifically regulated on the right of students, as well as students, provisions which carry out significant precision of the disciplinary procedure, as well as provisions on the right to protection in administrative proceedings. Young people in Serbia are expected to school, work on themselves and make progress. Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, namely Mr. Sarcevic as a resolute minister, a man worthy of leading one of these ministries, by his work and efforts, show that education is given priority in their own strategies and plans. When the SNS came to power, in addition to the huge problems in broken and kneeling Serbia, it also faced the problem of the outflow of young, educated people abroad, who, I say, are free to say, literally fled our country, fled from the then government. The Democratic Party has destroyed everything that can be destroyed and driven away everything that can be driven away, and here, again, they think Democrats -- new generations have come, seven years have passed, it has forgotten, we have new young people to take to the street, which we will use as all the previous and eventually drive out of the country, from our Serbia. It's not forgotten, and it never will. We can never forget your democracy, nor us, nor the generations to come. You don't forget thieving and stealing. You can't forget all the closed factories and tears of parents who lost their jobs. It is not forgotten how you manipulated and how you worked only for personal interest and your own account. The Serbian Progressive Party headed by President Vukic knew what to do to stop young people, to continue learning, to educate and stay in Serbia and to work for their country all they can, because there is nothing more beautiful, bigger and more important than that. Much has been done to improve living conditions, political and economic stability, because we are aware that if young and educated people have good conditions for work and profit, therefore, good conditions to stay, they will also stay in the country and create their families, contribute to development and prosperity. This draft law on student and student standards aims to improve the functioning of the overall field of student and student standards, the work of the institutions themselves, as well as the quality of conditions relating to students and students. I must stress that the new proposed solutions will increase the number of students' scholarships. The fact is that the most time, attention and energy are devoted to the youth, because they are our future, which must have the best basis and upgrade, in order to one day become successful doctors, scientists, craftsmen, businessmen, honest and good people, which will enable Serbia to make constant progress. I note that this law is extremely complex and needs to be further defined and regulated in the future in order to benefit from the creation of a unique and efficient system of providing material support to students and students, to encourage the development of highly gifted students and students for scientific and artistic work, to create a new system in which best students will be able to get the best conditions of education and training, to attract students and students from dual education, and to define conditions for the exercise of rights to student loans and scholarships. Looking at the comprehensive effects of this law, the SNS will vote in favour of this law. As far as the second law is concerned, i.e. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on radiation and nuclear safety and security, I can say that this law is passed in order to achieve a higher level of protection of individual health, the population and the environment. Starting with the fact that part of the legal system of the Republic of Serbia is the Law on Confirming the Security of Fuel Management and Safety of Radioactive Waste Management and the Law on Confirmation of the Convention on Nuclear Safety, this proposal carries out a consistent etching with confirmed international contracts, while respecting the system laws in this area in the Republic of Serbia. Natural disasters such as earthquakes, floods, fires, tsunamis are killing thousands of people in the world. Among these numbers of radiation victims could be much greater, as it is more dangerous than all natural disasters combined. Why? Because radiation can't be seen, tasted and smelled, but it can be deadly. Radioactive particles can reach the body through the lungs and the skin. Some of the worst consequences may be CA thyroid glands, tumors, leukemia, mental disorders, but also damage to the gene in the cells. If a person is exposed to severe radiation over a short period of time, it can lead to death within just a few hours. As I said, radiation can cause damage to genetic information contained in cell DNA chains, and this damage is transmitted to the offspring, which was visible in areas affected by nuclear explosions, after which children with major anomalies were born. Each serious country must have a regulated area and provide all segments that provide security in the area of radiation and nuclear security. There's no need to talk about radiation and nuclear safety, but there's a need for concrete steps to be taken, which is what we're doing. Given that it is precisely a human factor that can do some excess, by passing and harmonising the law, we make sure that in key, leading places that will take care of radiation and nuclear security cannot be people who are not in the profession, but rather, strictly people from the profession, who have been working for years in the area of radiation and nuclear security and know all the details. It was past the Democratic Party's time, when there was a dangerous problem, because their policy was about marketing. They forgot about the Democrats, or they never knew that politics should primarily be the work of solving real social problems. The state of Serbia was never in such a serious general crisis but when it was headed by the Democratic Party. The citizens were, to say the least, disoriented, confused, depressed and frightened of the naked existence. It was almost completely lost hope that there was someone who had the strength, knowledge and will, who could find a way out of the hopelessness of the day. But they've got the strength to take our own senses, with other people's positive experiences, relying primarily on our own resources and capacities, we're realistically looking at and formulating methods and means to realize the single goal and become what we are today. To become a respectable factor in the world's proportions, worth a dignified entry into the integrations that suit us. President Vukic made it possible for Serbia to be respected by creating friendships and partnerships and to be in a position with more respect, strength and power to affect and address, among other things, the problems of our southern Serbian province. To realize all of this, it took absolute unity, a vision based on reality, a new power and a lot of energy and self-rejection. The Democratic Party has now come to mind that Serbia must no longer and should not go forward, that the rise must be stopped and therefore brings children to the streets, stains their eyes and tells the same stories that result in thieving, hopelessness and destruction. They will not pass because Serbia is building strong and independent institutions of the state and strengthening its regulation, especially in the economy, to correct the mistakes and corrupt activities in the robbery privatisation conducted by Gilas with his associates. Serbia needs Aleksandar Vucic, a statesman with a vision, authority, a modern politician who has managed to get Serbia out of the situation of moral collapse, economic poverty, state disintegration and a very low international rating. We are aware of the situations and times in which we live and the dangers that we are exposed to, and we are therefore increasing our activities in the area of legal regulation. That's why the SNS will vote for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-11-0.u51649	Thank you. The word is Vera Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-11-0.u51650	Dear Vice-President Arsic, ministers with associates, fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, before I start talking about the proposed education laws, I would like to comment on one of the colleagues' remarks that Minister Sarcevic is most often seen in this house. It is true, but Minister Sarcevic has done much in his ministry for a short period of time, with the huge support of Prime Minister Brnabic and President Aleksandar Vukic. The priority of this ministry is education at all levels, from preschool to college education. Our schools are recognizable around the world, our children are talented, as everyone knows, medals about these successes arrive every day. Given that today is with us and the Minister of Culture, it would be good if our means of informing more attention to these children, not the things that rose our reality daily, not only the success of children, but also the success of the state of Serbia, which daily records results in every segment of our society. These laws circle everything that improves this area. Today we are in a position to discuss student and student scholarships, higher standard of stay in their homes, both student and student, all of which allows for the stability of our budget and the consolidation of our finances achieved. I hope you all remember the moment we adopted the Dual Education Act last year. The colleagues that are gone today have insisted that these students will be private investors' rental workforce, but, on the contrary, both students and parents are interested in this way of education. I hope you all remember the moment we adopted the Dual Education Act last year. The colleagues that are gone today have insisted that these students will be private investors' rental workforce. But, on the contrary, both students and parents are interested in this way of education. I don't want today, when we talk about important things where technical and technological progress awaits us, to talk to those who, in every good move of government and President Alexander Vukic, do not see, but in addition to the ugly words that first referred to women, and now refer to everyone who doesn't think like them. From words to lynching someone and seeing our future in fact. I sincerely hope that the citizens of Serbia see, know and know and that they will stand on the right side, which is on the side of our President Aleksandr Vukic, the SNS, and will know at a certain point that they will round what this current government is offering them and this government headed by President Vukic. In voting day, I ask my colleagues to accept these laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-11-0.u51651	Thank you. My colleague Branimir Rancic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-11-0.u51652	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, distinguished guests from the Ministry, honourable Members of the People's Parliament, I will talk about the bill on amendments and additions to the Law on radiation and nuclear security and security. The aim of the adoption of this law is to introduce new standards in implementing measures to protect against ionising radiation, nuclear and radiation security and security, all in order to bring our legislation closer to EU legislation, to what the Republic of Serbia has committed by signing a Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Communities and its members. We have already adopted in this House the Law on the Transport of Dangerous Goods, which was based on the Law on the Protection of the Environment, which is very important for Chapter 27 in terms of joining the EU. I note that the contamination of the environment by radioactive matter is becoming one of the most significant problems of modern civilization, especially the current problem with us, because we suffer the consequences of bombing with conventional weapons with impoverished uranium. The first results on this problem were presented today by Dr Darko Laketic, as president of the Assembly Commission, pointing to an increased number of malignant, or haematological diseases in children up to nine years of age who were in the contaminated area, but I will remain only for the comments of Articles 3 and 4 of this Law. Article 3 The proposal for a law is further specified by the provision of Article 238(2). The law, in which the date of entry into force of the law ceases to apply, provisions of the Law on the Transport of Dangerous Goods, which relate to the transport of dangerous goods, but have been kalsified specifically as radioactive matter in a way that clearly determines a member of the Transport Act of Dangerous Goods, which ceases to apply and thus removes any legal uncertainty in the application of that law. Article 4 The draft law further regulates the working status of an inspector for protection against ionising radiation, as well as the belonging of items of equipment for work and archives needed to carry out regulatory and inspection tasks, in order to specify the time limit for their acquisition from the Directorate to the Directorate of the Ministry of Environmental Protection. That is why these changes and additions should be made, because we are witnessing possible dangerous accidents on the highway, rivers and railways, such as the latest case of Jasenovic village near the town of Nis, when these dangerous substances and environmental pollution can occur. But my inspiration is this part of the empty room, so I'm going to say something about that so-called. The quasi elite. By being open against Serbia's strategic interests, so-called The elite, depicted in one part of the opposition, not to the Serbian government, but to the Republic of Serbia, who knows which path shows that it does not care about the survival of Serbia, but only to the taking of power. They are an example of a revolutionary consciousness, which does not matter the fate of the community, but that, through the authorities and holding important social positions, this elite is successfully produced in a governing and financial sense, and that is the only thing that matters to it. Unfortunately, this is about juvenile individuals, who have entered politics through the violent destruction of ancestors or bought a place in politics through private businesses. The problem is that many politicians, practicalists, remained in the state of mind of Friday, where the government allowed the destruction of the state, civil unrest and clashes on the street for the sake of coming to power. These people who have entered the political elite from the street have still not learned the difference between the destruction of government and the destruction of the state. In the end, DOS took our future, and now he complains you're gone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-11-0.u51653	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-11-0.u51654	Thank you. Ministers, you've heard what the proposed laws mean by the National Assembly. Good solutions that lead Serbia towards further development, which lead Serbia towards further modernisation, which help us to have better and better quality education, which helps us find good, new answers to labour market needs. The parliamentary majority in this National Assembly will support a full heart. It is quite clear from this debate today why they were not representatives of the former regime, those who allegedly have been dealing with some kind of boycott all day. Of course, they boycotted as we pointed out today, all except the cashier's, they all received both salaries and breaks for January. Many of them have been caught today that they've re-enlisted to collect travel expenses. There were among them and those who thought they were a little smarter, so they signed up for board sessions. Of course, for the same reason they would charge travel expenses. We're talking about people who have nothing to offer in this debate, and they're boycotting the National Assembly, just as they learned from their new leader Dragan Gilas, you know, and he's just boycotting the Belgrade City Assembly in the previous session. He didn't show up for a single session, after a constitutional session, but it didn't bother him to get a council fee every month neatly. As he did then and as he then established the standard, so do those who follow him today, starting with his co-ordinator for the National Assembly, according to Bosko Obradovic's own recognition from Dvera, and beyond. There are MPs who, meanwhile, did not participate in the 2016 National Assembly elections, were bought by Vuk Jeremic. There are also those who have fled from five parties in the meantime, so they have taken hold of Gilas and Jeremic, and there are these Ljitic boys. There are also leftovers of the yellow company, so absolutely no difference between them, they're reportedly boycotting today. Of course, they were so powerful and so valuable that they not only left the National Assembly and the plenary session, but apparently left their boycott, so that their play ended sometime around lunchtime. They haven't even been in this building since. Of course, it refers to those five that came in the first place. All the others in their ranks and the tycoon-Ljutić coalitions didn't even show up in the O.R. today. I'm saying this because of citizens who seem to have tried to explain why they deserve their salaries and their compensation, why they deserve the National Assembly to pay them apartments in Belgrade, etc. Consider, Serbian citizens, and these facts who didn't show up at all, and who escaped at the time of lunch, when they estimate whether they convinced you that they deserved these things. They advertise themselves, advertise some of their protests that are known and they openly acknowledge it, so Đilas, Jeremic, Dveri, the yellow company, Borko Stefanovic, that the idea makers of a project called Saturday's protests, that these people who organize them logistically are helping them financially, but hiding, are trying to hide behind citizens. Why? Because they are deeply aware that one single vote would not be given to honest elections, to fair and democratic elections in Serbia, and to try to hide behind these citizens, and in some way to deceive those people, people who they confidently know cannot look at, because they have ruined the fate of those people, just as they have ruined the fate of everyone else in this unfortunate country at a time when they burned and burned it. That they hope to do so, therefore, that they will come to power, and that their fairy tales of some kind of expert government have nothing to do with it, we learn from their ranks. For example, a man named Sandulovic, their political associate and regular visitor to these protests, says, "As far as I heard," as he heard, "Dilas has already ordered himself to be president, Jeremic to be foreign minister and Obradovic to be prime minister." Well, if the information comes from their ranks, you should believe it, I guess they know what they were planning and what they were making each other. That these citizens who gather at these protests don't want them, that's clearly what these formal organisers say, these various actors. Here, the example works, the actor Trifunovic says, "We don't trust these representatives of Gilas, Jeremic, DS and Dvori." Why? "Did you hear," Trifunovic says, "that they are talking about something other than Vukic? Did you hear that they're suggesting anything? The only thing the opposition is saying today is it's spreading some general stories about Alexander Vukic, without a concrete proposal on what he's going to do and how he's going to do. “ If they had no idea what they would be doing, of course, if it were going beyond the scope of personal wealth, their MPs also claim. One of the ones that didn't show up belongs to their ranks. According to Goran Jesic, an MP for the Democratic Party: "Apart from Bosko Obradovica, that is the Ljotic, who would return the mandatory army, put women in the kitchen, nationalised the economy, banned modern art, showed Kosovo twice a day, I know that none of them have any idea what they would do specifically if they came to power, so they would copy Boška." So once again, if they say it themselves, you should trust them. Their new icon, Professor Cedomir Čupic, who picked up numerous applauses both Đilas and Jeremic and Obradovic, the day after he made his big performance, says on television: "And the people in the opposition who made mistakes should understand that they will never get a chance to rule again." So that's what they think of even the ones these unfortunates believe to follow. What does Trifunovic say again, I guess some other Trifunovic, has multiple pieces? "Yes, Gilas and the others, they screwed us and they got rich and there was corruption, and I know it all, and it's all true. “ Once again, if they say so themselves, they need to be trusted. The same artist says, to ask what would happen if Gilas or Jeremic climbed that truck and tried to turn to those citizens who were trying to cheat on the voice, he said, "I think he would be out of line." Once again, if they say so, they should be trusted. Nothing helps Bosca Obradovic, the great Serbs, as he likes to say to himself, which he has decided to make all possible rotten compromises, so he is now walking under separatist flags, self-called Republicans in Vojvodina, or what helps these so-called so-called. Citizens who are disgusted by everything national, what they have made a deal, not a compromise, but literally a deal, therefore, a deal of benefit, with clerofasticists, with Latvians, so today Sergei Trifunovic says, "It is no problem that someone keeps Dimitri Ljotic on the wall of his living room, it is important that we are together." Well, since it didn't matter, it didn't seem like it mattered when everything they could, everything they followed turned them into the Dvora, so today they're all walking under the gallows together. As it doesn't matter, it doesn't matter what they can and everything they follow turned them into Zeljko Veseinović, the man who threatened to rape, so today everyone is defending the hangers together, and today they're all defending the threat with a bullet in their forehead, today they're all defending the threat of rape together. Since this is all the same, our people need to know that for good reason the next evaluation of their entire aggressive circus has arrived, and the virtual parade of hysteria and hatred that we see on our streets. A joint assessment of all this came from the Serbian patriarch, and it reads: "With great care I followed the recent demonstrations on the streets of Banja Luka. Those who did not wish well for Republika Srpska and the Serbian people were then satisfied. I don't see that it will benefit the people, nor will it encourage such protests in Belgrade and across Serbia." Maybe someone doesn't see or want to see, but all these processes are connected. Nothing good to the Serbian people, nothing good can do to this country. And it's clear absolutely to everyone. The policy that is absolutely and exclusively focused on showing the gallows, that it threatens the gallows, that these gallows today are meant for Alexander Vukic, and already tomorrow for his children, and that happened within a day, that's something Serbia has never been, that's something Serbia will never be and that's something that in this country, a country of decent, honest and hardworking people, will never be able to come across. On the contrary, in the spirit of these things we discussed today, we have a clear policy, a policy defined by Alexander Vukic and the SNS, a policy facing the future, to take care of every man, to take care of young people, to do everything that is up to us to stay in this country, and to stay in this country, when they stay, to provide jobs, to get all the investors we can, to bring both good jobs and those that involve net wages of 1,000, 1,000 euros, which we have already succeeded in the previous period, to ensure that they have a place to live. Two days ago, Aleksandar Vukic himself set the cornerstone for the first tranche of apartments for members of security forces, there will be 8,000 of them and will be for young people, for young couples, there will also be for our researchers. To do our best, like those measures adopted by us in this National Assembly, to enable families to support their children. More than ever money amounts for both the first child and the second child and the third child and for the fourth child, to allow young people in this country to see perspective and to have a desire, a clear and sincere desire, and not to be a desire based on some unrealistic expectations, but on what they see and what this country can really give them, to stay here, to create their families here, to work here and to make them work here. Just like that, by common forces, we build together the future of our common house, our beautiful Serbia. That is why, as has been said today, many MPs have said, and I will repeat once again, a policy facing the future, a policy facing Serbia absolutely has no alternative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-11-0.u51655	Thank you, colleague Orlic. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principle and uniform search, I ask – do they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-11-0.u51656	Ladies and gentlemen, I just got a message from a Serb. So, at the press conference, it seems to me, Mr Martinovic was told here that Nedim Sejdinovic repeatedly insulted the faithful and the Great Friday, which is called a celebration and congratulated them on the "great duck". Nedim Sejdinovic, a Serb citizen, I will tell Foce, is more correct, so it is geographically called that place, they say that it was "the great duck" eaten by Sergei Trifunovic at the Hilton Hotel for 25,000 dinars, which was paid by the US Embassy. So, that big yellow duck is gone, we didn't destroy it, was eaten by Sergei Trifunovic. Why did I start this with a message from a Serb, or from Foca, as I say? Because I think all that's happening to us is actually repacking that big yellow duck. Mr. Minister, I'm a great intellectual, especially professors, who marched behind the back of a big plastic yellow duck for days. The one that Sergei Trifunovic ate was probably alive, he swallowed it in one sip. I don't think it was an American duck or a Beijing duck. I think it was just our duck, Nedim Sejdinovic's duck. So I admired professors who can build their authority by walking behind the back of a big yellow plastic duck. I ask you, Mr. Minister, what do our teachers teach our students and high school students, and what do they teach them? What morale? Who's being brought up? What do they teach them when they walk behind the back of a yellow duck? So, they don't even think about coming to my country to grow yellow ducks or some other ducks, to sweat once in their lives, to know how to take care of animals, etc., because a plastic duck doesn't eat. A plastic duck doesn't have to feed, walks behind it as a symbol of resistance, etc. What are your teachers teaching these students? In my opinion, nothing. I ask you what they teach them? Ms. Tinde Kovac Cerovic, the lady who advocates freedom, she as deputy minister, I don't know if you know it, I don't even know what the minister's name was then, I know that voters and people from the ministry complained that they had to paint ballots and bring them in, otherwise they would have been fired. These are the freedoms your teachers advocate. Not wanting to offend you, I respect professors regardless of which I don't think they're trained enough to educate students, so they have to learn their whole lives to teach others, that Marxism and schooling times in Marxism weren't enough quality education for them to educate others. People who want to educate others have to learn something every day. I'm a farmer by profession, but every day I learn something from you, from my political opponents. I learned something today, that it's worth being in this House. I learned, that's what Micunovic told me, Mr. Martinovic, that's what Micunovic told me, he literally said "only on bayonets from here you can take me out, I've been chosen by the people". They, for one, went out on their own, fled, and they want the heritage values of DS, wants the heritage of GR Davidovic, Pekic, etc. What does this group have to do with them? It's a repacked yellow duck. They don't realize that in that repack, they like DS lose. They do not understand what it was like, who sleeps with the beasts, wakes up with the hangings. So they don't realize it's better to support a political opponent who guarantees a solid and strong Serbia. Better solid and strong Serbia, better to make a political opponent than to have air-conditioned gallows next to me, an ally wearing air-conditioned gallows. Here, today and Bosko Obradovic, the one who buys him suits, from the money he receives from the state budget, the one to whom the party buys shirts, coats, shoes, ties, and the one to whom the National Assembly, Mr Martinović, you made that decision, pays an apartment of 35,000 dinars of 75 square meters on Dedinj. That's the man who robbed Hilandar, who got his hands on Santa and he can't see anything else. Today he sold the Nog, for 30 pieces of silver, gave up the Nog, but he never gave up his wages and privileges. So, 30 of Gilas' silversmiths need to think carefully about what happened to 30 pieces of silver and what happened to the one who slowed down to Gilas, or to the 30 pieces of silver that were given to the one who, because Nogo is wearing the gallows looks, because he remembered how he ended up with the one who took 30 silver pieces from Scott, from the American Embassy, from Mitchell, as he was already called the head of the political department, who financed them. Mr. Minister, I will welcome between the criticisms what I forgot, that the health and safety laws in agriculture greet this Convention, because many farmers are injured in labor. These farmers use diesel. I thank the President of the Republic who supported the Committee's position to release part of the excise or fully excise duty from farmers. That's another contribution. Except that we stand out 115% more than in 2012 when we've singled out 19 billion, now we're giving out 41.5 billion dinars to encourage agriculture. I welcome that with several billion of these famous 5% of the revenues in the Republic of Serbia's budget. I am also thanking the President of the Republic and all those who helped the Committee's position on necessity and forgiveness, aware of the risk that this could lead to smuggling, but I believe that we will find the best mechanism to prevent this oil smuggling from happening and that farmers benefit from it. That's what we're going through with those famous 5%. The gentleman who is very representative of farmers, especially when he takes 61,000 euros from the Start project, combines it with 50,000 euros from Dveri Kupusić Bosko ljotic, and he also signed up to attend the session in any case, Mr Ševarlic, and today he does not welcome the intention of increasing the incentive in agriculture by encouraging the price of diesel, or part of the excise. Let's go back to these professors of yours. If those who walk there are supposed to educate our young, I'm concerned about the fate of our students, high school students, etc. You, Minister, in order for them to teach these students something good, noble, you must separate the wheat from the weeds, no matter what they call it. So the teacher has to be at least as dressed as the students are. I'm telling you that half of those teachers who are gathering there wouldn't pass an entrance exam at their university. Here, if they're allowed to test themselves, I claim it, and I'm willing to give up my mandate, if half of them pass the admission exam at the university, at which they surrender. Look at this one who ended up some higher in vain. He whistled so much, all in the rhythm: the vineyards were circumcised, up by Topola, to be taken now and those who didn't love each other, and he whistled so much that the whistle was green, I don't know why. Here's two top intellectuals trained by your teachers. Here is Sasa Rasulovic, who was never satisfied with Srdjan Nogo, a leggosav, commander of the fifth volunteer squad of Dimitri Ljotic, who had brutally liquidated villages, shot around Kragujevac on October 19th to 21st. Here they are by the gallows. They chose air-conditioned gallows, and we need all of us along with voters to choose solid and strong Serbia. Because of this strong Serbia, it's worth political association with everyone who thinks the same thing, it's worth respecting this part of the opposition that hasn't taken the steps they've taken, I won't tell the traitors, I'll say the unfortunates. Unlucky people who have no idea, who write a contract with a people without a people. They write a contract with the U.S. Embassy, and then these freedom fighters have a deal with the people, signed by Janko, Marco and there between them. They say we signed a contract with the people. With what people? Who's protesting? Mr. Minister, your teachers are protesting. Let me ask about these actors first. The more you act, the more your teachers become actresses. That Teodorovic says he wants to make a speech under the gallows. I think a man should be led to Sanda urgently. How did he become an academic? He wants to make a speech under the gallows. I don't know that message with those gallows, it's all over my head. But Mr. Teodorovic, look out, an academic, tells him his dream, he will give the next speech under the gallows. What's wrong with that academic, I think he's setting up Sanda. Anyway, Mr. Minister, you're being striked by an unorthodox people, you're going to protest well-trained, firm, full, drunk. They don't go sandwiches like they say, they eat crabs, they eat a duck of 25,000 dinars. It's the strikers. Do more acting teachers, pretend to be actors, or do actors turn into political leaders, who act for bigger money, I don't know, but I'm afraid there are a lot of them acting for our money and there's money, I've already shown how Bosko Dverić Kupusic does it.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-11-0.u51657	You're bringing the end, Mr. Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-11-0.u51658	Gentlemen of the prosecution and courts, we did not object when Dragoljub Simonovic was arrested because he had ordered something that did not serve the honor of any political representative at the bar, either in the National Assembly in particular. This is the man who ordered the beating of his board in Nis. His name is Jelena Djordjevic. This is her photo. This is a photograph of his bodyguard who confirmed that Bosko Obradovic ordered him to brutally beat up the board he personally threatened. I'm asking you now, not wanting to get too involved in the prosecution's work, is justice equal for everyone? We didn't complain about Simonovic, it didn't occur to us. The judiciary must punish the guilty and protect the innocent, but also in this case. I don't know what he deserved to be spared, a team before he took the state money out of the 30 million campaign for private purposes. Justice must be equal for everyone, for everyone to be available, for the victim to be equal. I'm closing up. I'm one of those, I'm not them, I'm one of those people who won't sell the country for the Djinn, just like they want. These are their gallows. Gentlemen, wearing a gallows is better to hang me for the state's loyalty than to reward me for treason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-11-0.u51659	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-11-0.u51660	Ladies and gentlemen, the people's support we talked about today, supporting a successful policy, which is measured literally in every election we've had back in years, has been confirmed once again. I want to share information with you. Elections were held yesterday for advice from local communities in Desic and Drenovs. And according to official results, the SNS will have all seven or all nine mandates in the councils of these local communities. These are usually two places in the territory of the town of Capca. As you all know the city run by one of the high-ranking officers, this so-called. The alliance of Djilas, Jeremic, Dveri and other members of the yellow company Zelenovic. And as you know, this man did his best, but he did his best to muddle the Republic of Serbia in the most brutal way possible, mudring the state and its organs in front of the international community. That's what he was doing at the Council of Europe, that's what he was doing and bringing here some committee of the Council of Europe. What he was doing there was copied by others, for example, by Alexander Jerkov, who is boycotting, probably, like all of them, the work of the National Assembly, but is not boycotting delegations, so she became head of some committee of the Interparliamentary Union and stated for the first appearance on high duty the following – that our country is in line with countries where MPs are being persecuted, arrested and killed. Once again, imagine a faceless lie. We are here persecuting and arresting and killing. She added that the fact that she was chosen there is an opportunity to tell such lies about her country a great honor for our country. Both Zelenovic and Mrs. Gilas, so personal, so personal, Jeremic. You've only seen them in front of the European Parliament two days ago. It doesn't matter that they lied all they could and it doesn't matter what the worst things they said about their country, but it's also important that the citizens of Serbia know that they sat there in the company of their hosts, people who are open lobbyists so-called. The independent Kosovo and who used the Serbia-named tribune to state their position, that the difficult situation in which they live, the difficult conditions in which they live, Serbs in KIM, are not Pristina's fault, that it's not the Albanians' fault, but that it's Belgrade and politicians from Belgrade, and that what's going on down there, and that what's happening down there, it's our fault alone. Gilas and Jeremic have not said a single word to comment on the claim. Why? In some ways, it is necessary to repay and pay for such a society and such an opportunity for personal promotion. That's what Serbia sees well, and that's why it is in one and the other place that I mentioned at the beginning of this 7-0 show, 9-0 for the lists led by Aleksandar Vucic. And, be assured, whenever the next election is held, you'll get through your allies just like you did in these elections yesterday and whether they're boycotting or not, it's gonna be all the same. The result is the same as boycotting all elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-02-11-0.u51661	Thank you. I now conclude a joint principle and uniform search on the proposals for acts from points 1 to 40 of the agenda. We're working on Wednesday, February 13th, starting at 10.00 hours. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 11th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sitting is attended by 87 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 93 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that at least 84 MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Djordje Milicevic, Daniela Stojadinovic, Danica Bukvic and Milisav Petronijevic. We continue to work and move on to the search in detail on the 1st point of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Preschool Education and Education Act. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I inform you that the sittings are invited to attend: Nebojsa Stefanović, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior, Mladen Sarčević, Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development, Vladan Vukosavljevic, Minister of Culture and Information, Milica Ćatić, Secretary of Interior Ministry, Anamarija Vicek, State Secretary at the Ministry of Education, Igor S. Jovičić, acting as Secretary of Culture, Vesna Nedeljković, Deputy Minister, Dr Slavica Jasic, Head of the Department of Education and Education, Marina Hasanovic, Head of the Department of Education and Education Affairs of the Department of Education and Education, Aleksandar Marković, Head of the Department of Legal Affairs at the Ministry of Education, Predrag Blažević, Senior Advisor at the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of Culture and Security. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Sreto Perić, Nikola Savic, Natasa Jovanovic, Vjerica Radeta, Ružica Nikolic and Marijan Risticevic, as well as the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development, Information Society, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 1 of the amendment, Article 157(6) is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure, submitted by the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society. The proposing representative accepted the amendment at the meeting of the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Please, colleague Nikolic.
