ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59566	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I would like to ask two questions, or two addresses. One question I am referring to is the application of small shareholders A.D. "Luka Novi Sad", where I am asking for an answer from the Minister of Economy and Prime Minister regarding the demands of small shareholders to initiate a review of the process of returning ownership rights wrongly taken action by minority shareholders in the company A.D. "Luka Novi Sad". I, will remind you, already on two occasions asked a question about the privatisation of "Luke Novi Sad", and on behalf of the small shareholders who addressed us with a request to help them in their process, because, as we know, the company 2Luke Novi Sad was profitable and, in addition, it was privatised in May 2019, with the majority owner becoming the company "Port of Dubai" from the UAE with 99.4% share of the capital of this company, and the remaining 0.6% was intended for minority shareholders. Minority shareholders have repeatedly asked the competent authorities to grant them the right to register for free shares, as well as to obtain compensation provided for by the Company Act in order to protect the interests and rights of minority shareholders. I ask the question - on what criteria has the privatisation of A.D. Luka Novi Sad been carried out? The second question - will it and when will the small shareholders be enrolled in the register to obtain the right to action without compensation, in order to finally gain the right to their own actions? These days, we are also witnessing that now former director of the "Luke Novi Sad" and SNS official Aleksandar Milovanchev shared 97m dinar bonuses with individual employees, which is about 803,000 euros for a three-month period. The move was taken when it was certain that the port would be sold to a company in Dubai. That's why he was removed from the director's post, but will this move be answered only by the party, its party, the SNS, or by law, especially if it is known that some malfeasances related to tenders at the Institute in Sremska Kamenica have already been punished? At the same time, small shareholders have failed, unfortunately, for years they have been fighting a battle to get bar crumbs from this privatisation. This request, by the way, was addressed by both the prime minister and President Aleksandr Vukic. I'm asking the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Traffic. Namely, when will tree planting begin along the highways and roads of first and second order? In 2015, the Prime Minister then, and now President Aleksandar Vucic promised, when they were the big trash, I will remind you what an accident it was, that windscreens would be raised, and we are witnesses, above all, that so far we are not planted near anything along the roads. On the contrary, many of the roads were cut down and what existed. We're all talking about climate change. The process is to prepare climate change laws, and we deny that we will respect that law, and unfortunately, here we are in practice witnessing that nothing is done on this plan and above all to mitigate climate change. Planting trees along roads and shaming is one measure that can ease it, and unfortunately nothing has done so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59567	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59568	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. I'd like to, in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, I refer the parliamentary question to Mrs. Ani Brnabic. We are witnessing that during the past period in Serbia, a campaign of certain NGOs, certain political parties and media to promote the idea as much as possible, i.e. an affirmation of some genocide in Srebrenica. So the non-governmental sector, which is heavily financed from the Republika Srpska budget, has only one task in Serbia, which is to blame the Republic of Serbia and the Serbian people for so-called, i.e. the fictional genocide in Srebrenica. The first thing the government of the Republic of Serbia should do is take a much more firm stance and try to deal with these attempts. So, the Serbian people are not genocide, there was no genocide in Srebrenica, no one in Serbia denies crimes, but in a situation where the Republic of Serbia is funding all these organisations to then spread the story of some genocide. If the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that is, it is a complete consensus in society, mostly in both the government and the opposition, that the genocide in Srebrenica was not there, that we are fighting against the fact that Serbs are attributed to genocide, and now the idea has emerged recently that Srebrenica is the greatest crime since World War II in the world. So, to that extent, these inventions are going. What will the Serbian government do about it? As you know, the SRS has proposed amendments to the criminal code, where whoever calls for genocide to take place in Srebrenica, that the Republic of Serbia has committed genocide and that the Serbs are a genocide people, would be penalized by prison sentences, that the Republic of Serbia, that the state demonstrate its determination in the fight against imposing the mark of genocide on our people. All the media involved are also financed from abroad, and are indirectly financed through these NGOs that are advertised in their media space. Some of these media outlets are funded by the government of the so-called Kosovo and publish their ads in editions that go out in Serbia. As much as we may resent some private media, there were words in the National Assembly last week, certainly who is funding, that is, the ways of money tell us and what will be the editorial policy of each media, but what is now problematic in Serbia is RTS. So, RTS has the Board of Self-called Experts chosen there only because they are beautiful and smart, not because anyone there has delegated them, as the National Assembly should probably do and I think 80m euros from the budget, in addition to the subscription, each year has RTS that RTS not only once, so it is not the first time, regularly in its information and other programmes, publishes a map of Serbia without Kosovo. So, Serbia's map without AP Kosovo and Metohija's territory. That's what RTS does. So, it's not Shipar TV, not Croatian television, not Federal Television in BiH, it's RTS. What will be done about it? When we finally open the RTS issue and what national state television should look like and how it should be arranged, rather than allowing national television to announce and try to let us know that it is normal, a map of Serbia without Kosovo. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59569	Thank you, Comrade Seselj. The word has a national emissary, Vesna Ivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59570	Thank you. Dear Chairman, honourable colleagues and fellow MPs, I ask a parliamentary question for the Minister of Environmental Protection, Mr Goran Trivan. Environmental protection is an extremely important topic in all developed countries of the world, including EU countries, families to which our country is seeking. A few months ago, we heard the news that Serbia was elected to the UN Co-chair Assembly on the protection of the environment of the UNEA-5, which is proof that the concrete results our country has achieved in this area are recognised and externally, and I am therefore taking this opportunity to congratulate Minister Trivan on this success. Recently, President Aleksandar Vucic said investments of several billion euros are expected in the area of infrastructure that includes the area of environmental protection. And just yesterday, President Vukic, with the presence of Minister Trivan, Antić and Minister Mihajlovic, laid the cornerstone for a new agglomeration in Željara Smederevo, thus reducing the amount of waste and air pollution in Smederevo. All praise to our Chinese friends, investors of Hbis Group, who not only think about their profits but also about the survival of 5,000 workers, 5,000 families, as well as the health of citizens and citizens of Smederev, and the environment, because this way will reduce the amount of waste, as well as improve the quality of air that the Smederets breathe. The environment minister also keeps saying that the biggest challenge for our country in this area is the lack of quality projects, i.e. project-technical documentation for significant projects in local self-government. Without the project, EU funds and other interested investors cannot be used for the environmental protection sector. In this direction, it is also a constant invitation from Minister Trivan to the local communities to take serious and responsible approaches to the development of project documentation. At the moment, one of the priorities is waste management and Serbia's need to form over 20 regional dump and waste processing centres. In the past two years, the ministry has reached nearly half a billion dinars for project technical documentation to local self-government for waste management and waste water management systems, out of which nearly a hundred million dinars have also been identified by the ministry in order to achieve this strategic goal from the Green Fund of the Republic of Serbia, and signed co-financing contracts in Novi Sad, Novi Varoša, Sombor and Pirote. And this is about making project technical documentation that was a weak point in local communities. In this context, I would like to ask the question – what measures and activities of the Ministry of Environment Protection is further planning and taking action to ensure quality projects in the environmental protection sector, which is the basis for attracting the necessary investments, and will Serbia be able to open negotiating chapter 27 in a recent period and thus continue its European path in this area? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59571	Thank you, colleague Ivkovic. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59572	Ladies and gentlemen, my question concerns, perhaps, the Ministry of Culture and Information. So, generally known that TV Serbia is a public service, and I think that at our request it must provide us with information. So far, I have repeated this several times at congregation meetings, but it was not in the form of a question. So this time I'm asking a question, asking the public service to answer us about sports rights, public service and REM. It is common knowledge to MEPs that according to the Law on Electronic Media, the most important events, including sports events, Olympic games, world championships, European football championships, basketball, qualifications for European and world championships, include the most important events whose list consists of REM. The most important events can be broadcast by television channels, electronic media covering the entire market of the Republic of Serbia and having free access, therefore, that they are not only in the cable, but that transmissions can be accessed by remote control of repeaters. Therefore, media must convey the most important events must cover the whole market of the Republic of Serbia and that viewers can choose whether to work on a satellite channel, or cable channel or via free access to a transmitter. That doesn't happen very long ago. That's why I'm asking, given the fact that sports rights are bought by television channels that don't have the right to do so, so questions arise – why does sports rights not buy from the organizers of sports events, FIFA, UEFA, various international sports associations, etc? Why don't they buy it when they have the right to transmit the most important events? Why, then, the second question that we ask ourselves, why do they buy it, the right to buy it, the right to buy those who do not have the right to broadcast it, who do not cover the whole market of the Republic of Serbia and where there is no choice about free access? Why do those who do not have the right to broadcast and those who have the right do not use this right? So I come to the conclusion and I ask the question, does RTS buy sports rights directly over the last five years, buy directly from the sports organisations of these sports objections, FIFA, UEFA or buy from someone else, or to respond, from whom in the last five years these rights to broadcast sports events were bought? Did they buy directly or did they buy from resellers? Also, with special attention to my reply, were sports rights purchased from Gilas and Šolak, namely the United Group, United Media, SBB and others, the Darekt Media and other related, Adri News and other related legal entities with Gilas and Solak? Did the National Service, by chance, buy those sports rights from those who have no right to broadcast it and buy it to resell? Is that true, if they bought sports rights from the SBB, United Group and United Media and other legal entities associated with Gilas and Solak, for which money did they do it? Also to check how much was in that resale of SBB, United Group, United Media, again to remind those who did not have the right to carry the most important sports events, and those rights were bought to resell them? Was it a falsified business between the "yellow buket", REM, and Gilas, Šolak and their interrelated legal entities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59573	Thank you, colleague Rističević. The word has a folk MP, Ivana Nikolic. Here you go, colleague Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59574	Thank you, Chairman. I'm asking the Ministry of Environmental Protection and I'm looking for an explanation on behalf of the citizens of Ub Municipality and on behalf of the Ub municipality and on behalf of the situation we've been facing in the past year. In May of last year, Ub municipality was informed by the Ministry of Environmental Protection that it is the holder of the project “Ekotane” d.o.o. Belgrade submitted a request to the ministry for the determination of the scope and content of the study on the environmental impact assessment of the plant's storage and solidification and inertisation of infused matter and water treatment on the catastrian plot number 523 KO Ub, with instructions that an insight can be made into the documentation provided by the project bearers and note that it can also be given an opinion when insight is carried out and within 15 days. From that moment on, local leadership concerns arose, as did citizens who heard that something was going to happen on a plot near where they live. It is interesting here to mention that the requirement addressed by the project holder to the Ministry of Environmental Protection already represents the second stage in the environmental impact assessment process. It is crucial that the Ub municipality, as an interested party, is not informed of the first stage, which implies a decision on the need for an impact assessment, expressing above all its concerns about its citizens, about the environment, expressing dissatisfaction with this mode of work, the President of Ub Municipality, Mr Darko Glisic, delivers an opinion, or informs in writing by a ministry in which, among other facts and arguments, the following states that, by the project holder, the location concerned, i.e. the plot is not discussed in accordance with the applicable General Plan Ub 2025, that no opinions and necessary documentation have been obtained by the relevant institutions. For example, water conditions, since the site in question is located near the Ub River. What's most disturbing, which is a rude violation of the law, how can you even consider the realisation of a project of hazardous waste treatment plant when only 50 meters from the parcel are houses where the population lives, family housing? It's a densely populated place in the Roma population. We soon came to the realization that the citizens of the environment had already addressed the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry, where they presented this as a major problem, which they did. Now there's a very interesting part. The Municipality of Ub, on the basis of its submission of 4 July 2018, has been informed that the Ministry of Environment Protection has reached a solution that determines the scope and content of studies on the impact assessment of the project holder and the follow-up notice again, you can make an insight into the documentation on the Ministry's website and on the premises of the ministry, but there was no solution on the site of the ministry. Responding to such allegations and finding that there are no solutions, the Ub municipality immediately sent a letter to the ministry to urgently request that this solution be delivered. That was July 18th. To inform the Ub municipality on July 30th that a local self-government notice has been sent by mistake and that no solution has actually been made. But soon, in August of the month after 10 days, the municipality was again informed -- yet a solution was made for the project bearer, set up on the ministry site, and was indeed found on the ministry's website. Of course, the municipality, respecting the interests of its citizens and wanting a healthy environment, given the current regulations, immediately filed a complaint. So the bottom line is that neither the citizens nor the management of Ub municipality were informed of all this, that the ministry had issued a solution to implement the appropriate procedure, without public insight of the interested party and that certain activities were already being carried out on the ground in the realisation of this project, to which the citizens reacted, expressing dissatisfaction on social networks, expressing dissatisfaction by coming into the municipal administration building and saying that local leadership supports such a principle of work, which is not true at all. My request is that the Ministry of Environmental Protection explain how it is possible for a project like this, the treatment of hazardous waste, to be considered at all in the circumstances that I have cited, above all, family housing, and to point out that the management of the Ub municipality of such labour principles is absolutely not supported, that the policy of the government implementing the SNS programme is indeed a better standard of life for our citizens, a better quality of life for our citizens. The citizens of Ubba are witnesses that it is. We have an increasing number of built-up miles of roads, we soon have a freeway exit, soon we have the completion of the construction of a new kindergarten, we have built new schools, a growing number of employees, which is seen by income from the salary tax in the local budget. Here, there is currently an expansion of the home of health. So, comprehensive work to improve the quality of our citizens' lives. We want to protect our citizens and I urge the ministry to reconsider the subject of the project's "Ekotane" d.o.o. project, to look at the facts and to implement the measures in accordance with the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59575	Thank you, colleague Nikolic. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. We continue the search in the details of the first item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Implementation and Security. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the sittings are attended by Nela Kuburović, Minister of Justice, Radomir Ilic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, Jovan Ćosic and Jelena Deretic, acting as Assistant Minister of Justice, Vladimir Minić, independent adviser at the Ministry of Justice and Branislav Stojanovic of the Ministry of Justice. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 25th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go, colleague Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59576	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my amendment is almost the same as the Government's proposal for execution. We here, in most cases, discuss the executions that will be carried out in cities. It's kind of in our head when we're discussing this proposal. It's mostly about apartments, mostly about residents or debtors living in the city. Since I live in the country, I also want to say something about debtors who live there and who are often debtors not because they want to owe, because they are part of a population that most regularly settles their obligations, but with circumstances they cannot do so, or are deceived when buying agricultural products, or are being delayed by various incentives, subsidies, premiums that the State or the Ministry of Agriculture is referring to farmers. Thus, executions are mainly carried out in fields. There is a big question, and there is a big difference between the execution and the execution of land and in most cases if the farmer, and there are villages where, when the perpetrators go, various inspections go to the country, half the village is locked down. When it comes to the execution of agricultural land, there is trouble multiple. If the execution is carried out, if it is a first-class land, if it is in populated areas, then such execution is less painful for agriculture because it is bought by another farmer who does not have such a problem and the country is being treated. But if the execution is carried out in marginal areas, if there is an execution in the field, on agricultural land, then, on the one hand, the farmer over whom the execution is carried out, who does not have to be a debtor because he did not want to settle the obligation, but because, with circumstances and debts to him, he remained in debt, therefore, resolved to execute, he lost the field and thus lost the means to work. You can leave him a tractor, a mechanism, you can leave him anything, but if he loses his field, his field is a means to work. In such situations, special care should be taken. That's why I urge farmers' debts to PIO insurance and health insurance to be settled. It is that they were created during the former government, but it is up to us to solve all the problems that they left us, so that the problem should be solved, so that no future execution, God forbid they get into the hands of that government again, they can still make up the debt, they can take the fields and own those who, by their laws, by their faults, bring them into such a position to owe, between 230 and 250 billion with interest, according to the PIO Fund, or the RFO. Of which, between 230 and 250 billion, more than half are interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59577	Thank you, colleague Rističević. Comrade Miletic, you did sign up, you are in the system, but your MP club doesn't have any time left, only an authorised representative. According to the amendment, MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59578	Dear Vice-President, as Honorable fellow MP Marijan Risticevic said, he spoke about the execution in the country, he also spoke in cities, but it is also very important who the perpetrators are, what kind of personalities they are, whether they are moral, what characteristics they must possess. With that in mind, imagine that the perpetrator, for example, is the leader of a political party, Sergei Trifunovic, called "pishoi". Imagine, he, here he is, picking up yesterday from a flight from Dubrovnik, you know what he said there? So, it is out of our country, this impertinent, and out of our country, out of Dubrovnik, the looser, swears, lies, in the name of the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic, in the name of the Serbian people and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, of the individual ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia and of the fighters of the Liberation Wars and of certain MPs. So he accused power in his own country outside his country, from Dubrovnik, I quote - We have a group of criminals in power with primary school and some with high school, and some are doing things that are dangerous fucks. It's a finished quote. Can you believe, the esteemed Vice President of the National Assembly and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that these words are pronounced by Sergei Trifunovic, in a people known as Sergei "pishoi"? For him, the criminals are not those of his friends who brought the country to the brink of the iris by robbery, such as Vuk Jeremic, a member of the international gang of thieves and frauds, Dragana Djilas, in a people called Điki Mafia, and others gathered in the so-called. Alliance for Serbia. This Sergei Trifunovic, called "pishoes" in the people, boasts on a trip from Dubrovnik to KIM and ugly Serbs with kiM that without shame and shame, quotes, the Vucic clan of the Serb mafia from the north of KIM have killed Oliver Ivanovic, Serbs from the north have no problems with Albanians. It's a finished quote. Do you, respected fellow professors from Pristina University with temporary headquarters in Kosovo Mitrovica, gentlemen of the students, respected citizens of KIM, believe that this Sergei, called "pisce", is such a disgusting lie? It wasn't Oliver Ivanovic who was darkened in Serbian, it was in Shiptar prisons. The country's nostalgist said this and sent charges against Interior Minister Dr Nebojja Stefanovic, Minister of Zlatibor Lončar, the voters and members of the SNS called the cattle and citizens of the Republic of Serbia a herd, I quote, that genocide occurred in Srebrenica, and in Jasenovac the slaughter of some people, and the storm that was ethnic cleansing. It's a finished quote. Believe it or not, that impertinent accused even his fellow Dragan Gilas, I quote, that he was a mob and bought the media. It's a finished quote. The only one he praised in Serbia is Bosko Obradovic, I quote, because he fell into RTS. It's a finished quote. He told himself the only truth, and I quote, I'm a fool, and I'm gonna collect a few more fools to fuck these guys up. Think of citizens, SNS voters and citizens of the Republic of Serbia. That's what Sergei Trifunovic, who said on January 31st 2001, quotes, respected citizens, said this, Kosovo is Albanian, not Serbian, finished, and thus settled into our country's traitorous bastards. This Sergei "pishoes" has moved the border of debauchery, lying that Alexander Vukic at the time of our country's bombing and RTS by NATO villains knew in advance about the attack on RTS and that, in time, he pulled his mother Angelina from the RTS building, and the president's mother was in the RTS building that night. Trifunovic was denied by the most bitter of Vucic's opponents. Slavisa Lekic, the recent president of NUNS, says, quote, people who were in RTS that night claim to have been there, the truth is true. It's a finished quote. Another of Vucic's most concerned opponents, journalist Zeljko Pantelic, a correspondent from Rome, says – you're right, Slavisa, I was sitting across from her that night. It's a finished quote. This, respected citizens, Sergei Trifunović, is called "pishoi". That's why Biljana Srbanovic, who said the most beautiful thing about him, is right, I quote: "The unwashed, lying Sergei, well, that's the leader of the protest. He's always been a sneaky liar, he's always been in my way, he's been a gold medal in getting in his ass, he's always lied, he's always smelled, he's always scratched for drinks, money and a meal, he's never washed. He always cheated on his colleagues." It's a finished quote. Biljana Srbanovic, 20.1.2019, at 17 hours and 25 minutes. In the end, his colleagues are really right when they call him, quote, one gram for right now, and two grams for carrying. Nothing better than him or other members of the Alliance for Serbia. In fact, it's DS in various aggregate states. This was best said for them by their co-worker, former Ambassador Svetislav Bashar, quote, DS is a self-government, interested community of thieves and frauds. Done quote, 22.5.2019. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, you see who is urging you to lead your country in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59579	Thank you, colleague Atlagic. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18 hours, for the need for the National Assembly to pass laws on the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Member of the 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's Messenger Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59580	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. On the third day of today, the National Assembly is discussing the issue of public executioners, i.e. The law of execution and security. We have been able to hear here in the past few days that this is now maltene revolutionary, because these changes that are being introduced are not only essential, but they will help and protect the citizens of Serbia, etc. First of all, it should be emphasized that this change is being introduced, i.e. that 5,000 euros in debt for municipal and related activities will not end this practice of evicting citizens from their dwellings, from their housing units due to small debts. This will continue to happen, as the main creditors are not public enterprises dealing with these services, but are the bank's main trusts. So banks will continue due to debts that are less than 5,000 euros, along with the perpetrators, to loot and hijack apartments. This change will not change, i.e. This member of the law won't change. This is mistakenly interpreted both in the public and in the performances of some MPs from the ruling majority as if it were now a significant change, and it is not. So, 99% of the claims for which the apartments were seized were not due to communal and related activities, but solely due to bank debts. How could this problem be solved? It's easy for the bank to take over part of the risk when it's credited. No one can assume whether someone will be employed in six years, what his salary will be, whether the company will fail, what will happen. It's life. It's unpredictable, but it can't happen after that, if something happens to him with his work, because of objective circumstances, that he eventually suffers and gets robbed even more by a public executioner.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59581	Thank you. Comrade Markovic, you want to follow the amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59582	Thank you, Chairman. When it comes to the execution of judgments, I'd like to ask a few questions regarding the execution of a corruption verdict in Paracino. Now I have to do some kind of chronology. About a month ago, a co-worker of the Paracin municipality's president, Paunovic, was arrested. He's a prominent Democrats, you know him for sure, known for numerous affairs in that city. So they arrested Biljana Milenovic Stojanovic, the responsible face of the Centre for Social Labour in Paracino, for the existence of a reasonable suspicion that she committed a crime of abuse of official office. It was an affair and a media escort. Therefore, it was specifically suspected that in the period from 2015 to 2019, she concluded employment contracts in temporary and occasional jobs and volunteering with four people from Paracino, and in fact she instructed them to carry out administrative and technical work in the Department of Local Tax Administration of the Paracina Municipality and many other violations in this respect. However, what is happening is that at the session of the municipal council of Paracinos, an interesting conclusion was reached. Listen carefully, this is a treat. The municipal council of Paracin at the session held on 23 July 2019 reached a conclusion assessing... I've got to do a dyspression. The arrested person confessed to abuse and thus pleaded guilty and sentenced to justice, may have the right to appeal, but in any case she confessed to abuse of her official position. Therefore, the municipal council of Paracin at a session held on 23 July 2019 concluded, beware, the municipal council concludes that there is a reasonable suspicion of the existence of political elements and influences leading to the signing of the Biljana Milenović Stojanovic agreement on the recognition of guilt, which consists of a clear media abuse of the case by politically controlled portals, the use of threats to detention as a means of torture to ensure rapid recognition and on the basis of comparisons with other cases known in the public, which are otherwise assessed by the competent authorities, in terms of the severity of the fine. It was also found that, in terms of material damage, the fact that the Centre worker was engaged in business in line with the Social Protection Decision of the Municipality of Paracin, but not formally and legally correctly in the premises of the Centre or other municipal services under the agreement, and his earnings were financed from the budget of the Municipality of Paracin. So, they here admit that a concrete offense took place. So he says - Paracin Municipality's municipal council made an appeal to the parliamentary groups to find a measure of solidarity with this arrested person, Biljana Milenović Stojanovic, in light of the circumstances and circumstances that she resigned in 2016, that she did not want to carry out the duties of director, I do not know what this has to do with all of this, that it is not her fault that she has not been removed from this duty, but that the institution of the municipality and the competent ministry, that the fact that the material burden put on her by the verdict was the result of the involvement of the workers who had been involved in the municipal affairs, so now that all this is in the sight of the committee groups finding a way to provide support for Biljani, the arrested person who has confessed, to provide support Biljana Milenović Stojanović with the burden that this burden relating to material obligations is not personal. Then, the Assembly Working Body - Committee for the Election and Designation of the Pracin Municipality Assembly, proposes that the agenda of the 62nd session of the Paracin Municipality Assembly, scheduled for July 24th for the urgent procedure, be placed on the agenda point – a proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Decision on fees and other receipts of the Parliament of Paracins and salaries of elected and appointed employees. In his explanation, he said, the Committee on Selection and Appointment, considering the appeal of the Municipal Council to the parliamentary groups, made a proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Decision on Refunds and other receipts by the Parliament of Paracin, so that the parliamentary groups could show solidarity to Biljana Milenović Stojanović, and proposed to the Assembly that the 62nd session be placed on the agenda on the agenda of the 62nd emergency procedure. Then we have a proposal for a decision saying – in the Decision on Refunds and Other Receipts of the Parliament of Paracin and the salaries of appointed and employed persons, the board member in the Parliament of Paracin has the right to a parliamentary allowance in a permanent monthly flat-rate of 24,000 dinars, and the head of the committee group of 25,000 dinars. So, let's recap. The court condemns the director of the Social Labour Centre based on her admission to abuse. Paunovic, at the meeting of the Municipal Council, makes a decision that the verdict, to God's sake, is political, then increases the fees to the councils from 14,000 to 24,000 dinars, and the heads of the committee groups to something more, and then, from the conclusion, it will make all these committees give up their incomes, their fees for the benefit of the person who was convicted, and by admitting the guilt. This is a state-of-the-art scandal. This is a state-of-the-art scandal, and I am now asking you all a question, both in the O.R., and in the Minister and everyone in the public -- has anyone ever heard of similar practices, not in Serbia, in the world? I have to say I didn't. Never heard of a similar practice. I know that Paunovic is famous for various affairs, for so many affairs that I really don't know that at this point man has not been removed, that the Ministry of State Administration in local self-government has not taken any concrete steps in this regard. Right away, I'm not against the fact that the board has a fee, I even think the board should have a fee for, however it's a chosen person, so, the person who chooses citizens in the election, I think there's a responsibility in doing that job, and I think there should be a fee, but what we're doing in Paracino right now, this is a scandal of really big proportions. First question - is there even a budgetary basis for him to increase the fee to these committees? I repeat, I'm not against the fact that the board has a fee, but is there any excuse for this kind of thing, is there a budget basis, is there any money in the budget that he can pay that kind of money? Second, to force these committees to give up that part of the amount, to cover that sentence for the convicted, who admitted to abuse of her official position. So this is one scandal, and I think we should all deal with this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59583	Thank you, colleague Markovic. According to the amendment, the People's MP is Prof. Dr. Mihailo Jokic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59584	MIHAILO JOKIĆ : Gentlemen, I am in this amendment and in the whole of the law insist that execution is not tied to absolute... [[Disabled microphone.]] and does not bind to the fixed, but to bind to the ratio determined by the debt, the market value of that... Then there'll be less abuse. It'll be fairer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59585	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Prof. Dr. Ljubisa Stojmirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59586	Dear colleagues and colleagues, surely the reason why this law came into Serbia a few years ago was positive and wanted to achieve efficiency in the collection of certain debts. In practice, however, it is apparent that the law has been laundered. What's going on? People who have passed professional ethics and had to make this law considered to be very negative in the people. How important it is to those citizens who have come under the influence of the perpetrator, whether it is one or the other party. They don't care who's from which party, they look at their pain and they want to solve their problem. Like other colleagues and colleagues, people came to me who had this trouble seeking help, complaining, and seeing how they could solve the problem. However, the perpetrators have become ruthless, their behavior is no longer thieving or robbing, but even criminal. How many people were killed because of a debt that was not corresponding to the property they had been taken from them? How many people are wrapped in black? It was our problem to solve this amendment and the addition of the law, but I'm afraid we're going to have to do something about it again because we didn't answer it properly to solve these problems. The big objections are to work and notaries, but to a lesser extent, and therefore I hope that we will have more power and more wisdom to try to see this problem the way it really is and to solve it properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59587	Thank you, Professor. Stojmirovic. The 27th Amendment, with a correction, was filed by the People's MP, the Prophet of the Faith of Radet. Does anyone want a word? The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59588	This is one in a series of our amendments that we draw attention to first of all to the public. It is obvious that the minister will not accept this method of enforcement proposed by the SRS and we want to draw the public's attention that exactly what we are looking for is this petition that citizens are still giving us the signatures that we want and we will insist through a new law to return to the jurisdiction of the courts. We think that the court is one, or not, but the fact is that the court is a branch of the government and we think that trust should always be given to the authorities, whatever it is, before any informal group as it is now made of this group of public executioners. Yesterday, apparently, our debate was quite noticeable. A lot of people came to us at the party headquarters and here in the MP group, we got e-mails, we got personal calls, and we're glad to see that, too, that people actually see what the SRS thinks, and what the government thinks. We're different, and it's good to be different. We had, say, an e-mail from Geosonda workers, they say they haven't received a salary in eight months, and Geoshonda is part of a foreign society, as they write, of the society in Podgorica. They ask, it doesn't have much to do with this amendment either, or this debate, but we simply want to tell the citizens -- yes, we want to help you, but we don't know how, they say -- can these public contractors make that owner of theirs from Podgorica make sure they get paid that they haven't received eight months? We've been hearing from Mrs. Kuburović, I think you should know, people who, or families who have been renters in Dipos' apartments for 20 years and change years. And they say they spoke to you too. They are tenants, mostly a large number of these people, these families, are former officials of Republika Srpska, who have long moved to live in Belgrade. They want to buy these apartments, they're not allowed to do that, and every moment they get solutions from the executioner, threats to come and move them out of those apartments, etc. Well, it would be really good if you saw with your colleague Zorana Mihajlović, tomorrow we'll ask her the same thing, we think, we simply have to solve these people's problem, there's a way, there's a legal basis, it's just a question of whether there's a will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59589	I'd like to thank my colleague, Radet. On the 28th amendment, with a correction, was filed by MP Alexander Seselj. The word has the People's Messenger Alexander Seselj. Here's your colleague, Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59590	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. Well, I've said before, as we've been here quite, undeservedly speaking of some social character of these amendments to the law. So that's just not the case. Since we are aware of the statistics on how many apartments, i.e. housing units, subtracting from debts less than 5,000 euros, or slightly higher than 5,000 euros, and having nothing to do with municipal and related activities. This is the most common case in Serbia, and nothing has changed in that field. What also falls into the eyes of this law, is that in a legal solution, therefore the law proposed by the Ministry of Justice should be passed by the National Assembly, the article says that as now, as a matter of fact, a little more care will be taken of by the in charge, i.e. the debtors, so they won't touch a quarter of the pension, etc. that it is said, as if it were normal and as if by law, that there is a profit in Serbia that is less than a minimum profit, i.e. Law prescribed at least earnings per working hour. Here's the social character of this law. Note that there will be a public confusion over that solution, which is arbitrary of 5,000 euros. That occurred to someone, 5,000 euros sounds like a middle figure. This is how it happened, and it applies only to municipal and related activities, not to the vast majority of debts, which are primarily to banks, and the perpetrators are still ruthless in these debt-confidential relations.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59591	I thank my colleague Seselj. The word has a representative of the promoter, Justice Minister Nela Kuburovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59592	Thank you. We have been trying to banalise the entire enforcement procedure for the third day, as if it were not the crown of civil rights when you are conducting a long-term litigation procedure where there is no voluntary settlement of the claim that has been made to you by a court verdict and then you are simply trying to throw out the execution procedure yourself. I believe that we will soon be colleagues, I am not sure whether you have passed civil law, or civil procedural law, so that you can see that the end of the civil proceedings is exactly an executive procedure and how important it is and what are the basic principles of the conduct of the executive procedure. All the time you're saying that executions are being carried out on the estates of less than 5,000 euros, I'd like you to provide me with the information, so that out of those 3700 housing units that you're arbitraryly stating, although I've already told you that this is not the number of apartments sold and that these are not the only dwellings of the debtors who were, but obviously you don't want to accept it as a fact. Also, you're talking about trying to legalize that there are profits less than minimum. Minimum profit is a full-time profit. Someone can work part-time and get a smaller amount for it. So, any kind of profit that someone makes, regardless of whether it's based on a contract of work, a contract of temporary and occasional jobs, can be less than a minimum profit, so that's how we try to protect both those persons and that the burden of such a kind of profit is less than that. So don't lead the citizens astray and at least you could admit that this law was the first law to take care of executive debtors, of their incomes, and that it was never such a low limit when it comes to forced executions on citizens' earnings and pensions.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59593	Thank you. Comrade Seselj, do you want a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59594	Mrs. Kuburović, I'm going to learn a lot from you and use every opportunity to listen carefully to what you're talking about, but here you are now saying how to collect debt, i.e. when the trustee exercises his right, it is the end of the debt-confidential relationship and the exercise of his civil rights. But are we pretending like it's not happening or is it easier for us to ignore it like that? You and the Department of Justice and the National Assembly, I meant the ruling majority, that there is a third person there who makes abnormal profits from that relationship, who has nothing to do with that debtor or that trustee. His clear interest in this property is that as much as possible, the debtor is damaged, and the trustee is used there only as a trustee where only her debt is resembling, and besides, someone earns an abnormal number, often ten times as much as the underlying debt. You can teach me lessons here from every class, no problem at all, but if you don't see this, and we're talking about fundamental changes, where absolutely nothing has changed, I don't know what these three days are? On the other hand, 3736 mostly, most apartments only for 2017. If you really don't have that information for every year, and you ask me, there's no problem, we'll deliver them to you, along with addresses and families, there's no problem, but at least I thought the Justice Department was doing its job with zeal and responsibility, so it's directed to what the perpetrators are doing and where they took all these apartments. Only in 2017, almost 4,000. In these eight years, the question is, what's the number, and that I'm using lies or saying something that has nothing to do with reality, let's ask these people whose apartments have been kidnapped. Let us see how they live today and how the perpetrators live.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59595	I thank my colleague Seselj. The word has a representative of the promoter, Justice Minister Nela Kuburovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59596	My friend, you can learn something from me. When I say immovableity, immovableity is a much wider concept than a housing unit, so they can also cover residential buildings, business spaces, agricultural land. So that 3770 immovableity is the correct number, but it's not the right number of housing units, which is much smaller than that number that you've listed. From all your discussion, I can only understand that you feel that the executive procedure should be conducted free of charge, because I will remind you that the debtor has carried out his obligation voluntarily, the cost of the procedure would not have occurred. It is precisely by his passive conduct and by not paying off the debt, or on time claims, that is, not only the claim, because other kinds of practices can be in the executive process, he himself has caused all the costs that have been incurred. Do you think the trustee, who has been trying to age his right for years, should bear the costs of the executive procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59597	Thank you. Right on line, MP Alexander Seselj. Here you go, Comrade Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59598	Dear Mrs Kuburovic, at no point did I say that the executive procedure should be free of charge. Not that they're all housing units. I said most of the housing unit. Look, listen both Monday and yesterday what I said, I said most of it, but 3,736 real estate. As for the executive procedure, of course he doesn't need to be free. It needs to be charged reasonably, and that means since 2011, the state has given up the profit that could be based on execution, given to a private person that is engaged in enforcement and derived from this extra profit. So he's rich in executive procedure, no matter what debt he owes. This civil, procedural and human rights means absolutely nothing to debtors, but it is important to charge as much as possible. On behalf of abnormal costs, such as the cost of successful execution, the executioners are charged. And now you're going to say that now it's a good solution that the state has given up its income, which is the income of execution, which is no longer the courts, because the courts don't know, the courts have no idea, the perpetrators know, so they know how to get rich, 200 of them and something in those executions, honor the exceptions. The rule is to abuse an executive procedure. The rule is that someone gets rich in a debtor's accident, and it's not a trustee, it's the third person to a public executioner. That's what we're talking about. The problem could have been solved by expanding the number of judicial perpetrators. So, hiring even more. Raising their wages to pay for the effect of execution could have been tried, not by a less resistance line, because the courts have no idea, the courts know nothing, here are these perpetrators, they know, so we got the state we got today. There's no personal discussion here, not for you, not for any of the perpetrators, but that's what I think is the main problem we're not talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59599	Thank you, Comrade Seselj. The word has a representative of the promoter, Justice Minister Nela Kuburovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59600	It is precisely one of the reasons why public perpetrators have been introduced into the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, because it is a state and how it has been lost. Hundreds of European Court of Human Rights rulings for violation of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time, due to unfulfilled execution, fell on the burden of the Republic of Serbia, so several billion dinars were paid annually on account alone, because it was not an effective enforcement system. Did the state give up the budget? I have to tell you, there are employees in the executive offices near two thousand people. Most of the employees are lawyers. Executors pay contributions to those persons, receive regular salaries. On the other hand, VAT is also paid in relation to the fees they make in six months this year in the Republic of Serbia's VAT budget, close to a billion dinars were paid. Do you think the state has given up its claims in this way or not, or do you think there's more income than she had while doing so?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59601	Thank you. Replica, MP Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59602	Mrs. Kuburovic, I hope I heard you correctly, you said that now in the name of VAT alone, executioners in the state budget paid more than a billion dinars, close to a billion dinars. So five billion dinars are then they in a year, in six months or a year, I haven't heard you well, but it doesn't matter, it's too big in a year if they paid a billion. Four billion dinars they made. For what? By charging extra profits from the execution process, four billion dinars. Now it's supposed to be some consolation that two thousand people are employed there. You could reform the courts, hire those two thousand people, also where they will have regular salaries, to deal with it, to tie their jobs and their wages to the effect of execution. Then we won't talk about efficiency. The state has shown by introducing public executioners that it is unable to solve some basic problems. So, before the problem you retreated, not you, first the DS retreated, but then you didn't get into it, but it was easier for you to see now, so they're putting some money into the budget, well, then what they're doing is it doesn't matter. Then we find out later when we see what they're doing, that they're able to move both single parents and older people and pensioners, etc. It's really weird not to talk about it. Tomorrow, if you, not you or anyone who is in your place or the National Assembly or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, remember that neither the civil proceedings nor the criminal proceedings are effective because of the trial within a reasonable period, so we have been waiting there for five years, three years to complete some procedure and to come up with the idea that a private person could be much better at handling a criminal procedure. So we can't give the private the authority of the state and then brag about how successful this solution is.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59603	Thank you, Comrade Seselj. On the 28th amendment, with a correction, was filed by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic. Here you go, colleague Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59604	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the largest number of amendments she has submitted to the SRS is in its contents to be deleted by members. What would be more logical for that policy option like the SRS, which insists that the perpetrators be abolished, than that through the amendment we try to influence the proposing representative to accept SRS suggestions. In addition, what the SRS advocates here at this session and this debate is confirmed by a large number of Serbian citizens. I'm one of them, who's dealt with the perpetrators, and I wouldn't wish anyone had that experience. You can't imagine what their behavior is like when they send interns to list things in your apartment, to find out later that you don't owe. But that moment when they act so arrogantly, it's something that's left to man and how they're carved into memory like an ugly scene. We here, Serbian radicals, are never against the execution of a court ruling, only to do so by the state through courts. I'm just reminding you gentlemen, the SRS has been curious to convince once-proposed bankruptcy laws, so-called. the bankruptcy managers, claiming among other things, argued that this is a way for individuals to get rich. You've seen how many individuals' capitals they've acquired by themselves, members of their families, were bankruptcy managers in several working organizations. You had your former minister, Radulovic, for whom you provided the information. But what's it worth to us to find out later that we were right? We now appeal that there is no need for the executioner to exist, that the state is prepared enough, strong enough, yet you are a resolute minister, to sort out the situation in the judiciary, that's your job. That's what the people will remember if you do that to the state through the courts for execution.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59605	Thank you, colleague Mircic. On Article 29 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Verica Radet. Does anyone want a word? The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59606	Article 29 refers to the extension of the requirements for the execution of the total asset of the executive debtor on the basis of a credible document. That's what we've been talking about in these last two days and it's just amazing that it occurred to you that in this sense you're changing the law and making the entire assets of the debtor available to the trustee. You can't convince us that this law isn't above all to protect our trustees. We, of course, repeat - do not protect creditors or debtors, but simply debtors are in a situation where we have to worry a little bit more about them, for the simple reason that 90% and perhaps more than 90% of the debtors have not become out of pride, they have become because they are living in a poor country, because they are small salaries, because they are taking loans to buy children's books, because they are taking loans to buy medicines, because they are taking loans to buy agricultural machines so that they can live on agriculture, because they are taking loans to avoid starving. That's a fact. You can say whatever you want, not you personally, but anyone in power, but we're saying what, after all, here we are, for two months less than 100,000 people with their signature on our petition confirmed. You said yesterday there was no exclusivity when it came to public executioners, but you didn't answer our comment two days ago, but here, I'll tell you again. Isidora Rankovic, a public contractor, exclusively executives for the EPS, won as an advance, as 69m dinars advance to start doing the job. In 2013, the net profit of Isidora Rankovic at the execution jobs was 29 million dinars, a net profit when everything was rejected, in 2014 was 36.9 million dinars, and then something dropped her job, so in 2015 she had only 17.3 million dinars, etc. So don't convince us of something, we don't say anything here, which isn't 100% true. You can, as a minister in the government who represents the view that you should cultivate the perpetrators, that you represent it and that you tell us, but you can't tell us that it's not exactly what we're saying right now, you can't tell us that the perpetrators need to be nurtured because the courts don't function, please, I told you the example doesn't even work, so let's gather 200, 300 people to take first aid and start operating in Serbia to cut the waiting list. We can't banalize things. We want things to be resolved systemically, and that's why we're trying through these changes, but of course we'll talk about it much more when we submit our bill. Just one more example to tell you, because of the exclusive perpetrators, "Infostane", for example, no longer informs users that they have some debt, but immediately send the perpetrator and the perpetrator comes with a solution to charge a five- or six-fold higher amount than the one you owe. What can happen? That someone, for example, has an account of three years ago, whether a time of vacation, someone sick in the family, something happened, someone got married, got married, simply, was loaded with something, here, nice, doesn't have to be ugly, and forgot to pay that bill, and no one ever warned them, and now they've got, first, an obsolescence, but they've got a solution from the executioner, says -- you had three years ago an account of 3,000 dinars, now I need you to pay me this kind of tax, so much debt, so much interest, so much for that 3,000, sorry, you have to pay 18,000 or we come to get a TV. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59607	Thank you, colleague Radeta. The floor is represented by Justice Minister Nela Kuburovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59608	Thank you, Chairman. It's not true that I haven't answered you about the mention of executor and exclusiveness, but I'm not having a hard time repeating it. You said, it was 2013, and in 2014, when I became an assistant minister of justice for the judiciary and where I had the jurisdiction to make myself legal professions, I was just then initiating that way of determining the enforcer and the proposed amendment of the law was so that there was even distribution of the case. This is a provision of the law applicable from 2011 to 2014. There is no more exclusiveity when it comes to the collection of municipal claims, but it is the Chamber of Executives that evenly distributes cases in the area of the basic and higher court for which the perpetrators are appointed. As for the example you refer to as “Infostane”, that without any warning someone collects the claim, it is not true, nor can it be done. Because when you submit a proposal to execute a chamber of executioners that works evenly, your obligation is to provide with the proposal and proof of the warning. So that's not true. It is impossible for citizens not to know that they owe something to Infostan, because in every new account you receive this month, you are shown the debt you have from an earlier period. So it's impossible that citizens don't know they owe something. It is very visible on Infostana's payments, we in Belgrade know very well. I guess you get Infostana payments, too, so you know it shows that if you owe something from an earlier period with a new account for the previous month and it's shown. As to whether or not something is obsolete, you cannot charge for an outdated claim if the debtor points out the objection of obsolescence. Whether a proposal for execution is adopted, if the debtor points out the objection of limitations, of course such a claim will not be settled and the procedure will be suspended. So, all this stuff you've just brought out is incorrect data.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59609	Thank you. The People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophet, has the right to replicate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59610	Sometimes I think that you, Mrs. Kuburovic, want to somehow humiliate the MPs of the SRS with that it's not true what we're saying or that we don't know something, it's just not true. We're only telling the truth, but you know what the problem is? The problem is you get the impression that you're part of a government that only takes care of one part of the people. Those who are truly in trouble, those who have difficulty living are not the subject of your thinking. You insist on defending the perpetrators who don't know what they're going to do with the money, the perpetrators who are robbers, who are the bank that is lying around in Serbia, so you defend them all you want. Come out on the street, let's take a walk now, so whoever we meet at random to ask the two of us – come on, sir, ma'am, what do you think of the perpetrators, you'll hear. Don't let the public get the impression that you're defending 200 people in Serbia who have sickened millions of people in Serbia. That's not how it works, Mrs. Kuburovic. Don't convince us, tell us – it can't be executed... Thank you very much. You just asked your colleague Seselj if he finished law school, I did, for two and a half years, but I see your average was 0.28 better than mine, so maybe for so much better you know, but I'm a longer lawyer, so I should know a little more. How can you expect someone who gets from an executioner to pay instead of 3,000 – 18,000? I know the legal rule of not knowing the law doesn't apologize, but I'm sorry, we're talking about reality, this bill gets some pensioner, gets someone who's a layman for law, can be educated, but he doesn't know anything about law and he just goes and says, "Here, I got it." Will this doer teach him and say, "You know, but you can emphasize obsolescence, and then you will not pay the debt?" There's so much money taken on obsolescence. During his time, he took a huge amount of money from Dragan Gilas, and then it was buzzing, and then we talked about how much money he took on behalf of antiquated debts through Infostan, and now you're doing the same thing through the perpetrators.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59611	Thank you, colleague Radeta. According to the amendment, the word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go, colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59612	I thank you, Chairman. First of all, I want to point out that the label to the perpetrators is that the gang, that they're criminals, that they're notorious etc. He really can't accept it, because it's one thing, as I said yesterday, generalization that's dangerous. We send a message from here to non-good citizens, and this message says: "Lincate the perpetrators, they are terrible, they are harrassants, they are as they should not be, etc. It's not a good message. She's not good for two reasons. The first reason is that no one here has referred to the verdicts carried out by the perpetrators. What an executioner can do if he's got a warrant to do one thing, he can only execute, nothing more than that, and nonstop repeats the same story as the matrix. Is it a problem that executioners are rewarded with prizes prescribed or a problem in carrying out executions? There's no such thing as an execution problem. If, however, there is, if there is an abuse by the perpetrators then the perpetrator will be sanctioned, a disciplinary procedure will be initiated against him, if criminal charges are necessary. Let's be honest here. Who has done this so far, but the Ministry of Justice. Did the Ministry of Justice oversee the work of public executioners? Yes, it is. Is that the jurisdiction of the Justice Department in accordance with the law? Yes, it is. Is that implemented? Yes, it is. Have the perpetrators been processed in appropriate procedures? They did? Were there executors suspended? Yes, it is. Were there executors who were deprived of their work permit? Yes, it is. So, in no way can we make generalization out of something that simply comes into life and works. It works by preventing everything that's been a burden so far, a huge burden. Protecting the state from huge costs and burdens, preventing courts from delaying execution procedures for quite a long time because of congestion. Have the perpetrators carry out the executions, where the executions were possible and that is not disputed. Which is why you do not trust the minister when she says - I will bring the rule, or I will amend the rule which will reduce it significantly and reduce the rewards and fees, and then we will remove that prejudice once and for all, and to compare that mystification when it comes to the executioner's fee to what is absolutely natural, life and normal. I really don’t see a reason to comment on something in a way that really doesn’t deserve a comment in this congregation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59613	My colleague Radeta, do you want a replica of my colleague Jovanovic's presentation? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59614	I will not tell my colleague Jovanovic that he should discuss it because we Serbian radicals respect democracy and respect that anyone can say whatever they want and it is not nice to be lectured about how we comment on it. So we say the perpetrators are harassing, they're harrakes, they're a monster, they're fear and trembling. That's what we say, but none of us radicals said we should lynch the perpetrator. A moment ago, we were told to say, we're calling for a lynch. No, we are not calling for a link to anyone, but we are calling on Mrs Kuburovic to withdraw this bill, to pass a new law in the autumn. We offer, we propose a law where enforcement and security will be returned to the courts, and then you hire all your perpetrators in the courts, on the same cases, so that we can see all together how zealous they will be if they work for those salaries, how much wages they pay in the courts, by proposing that they should receive a certain percentage for each execution in the name of the fee. He says, uh, a colleague earlier, why do you have a problem with something that works? Well, it's working. The proof of how much it works is that today I'm telling me about 170 and more amendments to the law. So if there's something to prove that something doesn't work or at least it doesn't work well, then it's these amendments to the law. It's nice to have you, Duke, you to me, Serdar. It's all nice after that dialogue yesterday, and this one definitely needs today, but don't, please, drag us Serbian radicals into something we didn't say. We're against the bailiffs, but we've never lynched anyone, and we've never invited anyone to the lynch. Please take care of yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59615	Your colleague Jovanovic has a basis for replication, but before you, when it comes to replication, Justice Minister Nela Kuburovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59616	Thank you, Chairman. These amendments to the law, I believe, are an expression and a good sign of monitoring the law's implementation, and we are not running away from seeing all the gaps, the shortcomings in force, and we are trying to remove them. Don't speak to my perpetrators, they're not mine or the Department of Justice first. If you already want to honor someone, no perpetrator has been elected during my term of office in the last three years. So you can't put any executives as a result of my ministry's work. I'm not an Infostana lawyer here yet, but obviously you're contradicting your MP's group, because yesterday we heard that Infostan is sending warnings signed by lawyers and charging the costs, and you're now saying that Inofstan collects claims without sending a notice at all. So I think you should agree with your views, and if I tell you that it's impossible to make a payment of the claim, to determine at all the perpetrator, and that no evidence has been provided that the notice has been sent to the executive debtor.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59617	Just a moment, since there's been a lot of reports in the system, a colleague of Jovanovic you called in for a replica? Radeta's colleagues, too, for the replica? My colleague Arsic, you and Ljubisa Stojmirovic, by amendment, want to speak, right? A colleague of Jovanovic's means you're giving up the replica, then you're welcome to have a colleague of Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59618	Thank you, Mrs. Kuburovic, for the advice that we are being consolidated in the parliamentary group. We are, we are very consolidated, but thank you for asking, and we know exactly what we're saying. One account is now being sent in large numbers in thousands in tens of thousands with the seal of lawyers, and these are cases of backlogs a few years ago. I'm sorry that you don't listen to us very carefully, and when I said yours, let your perpetrators, first of all, I didn't mean you personally, I mean your perpetrators, and these are the executors of the Justice Department. I'm also telling your court because you must be the minister who takes care of both perpetrators and justice. So do not now take hold of the word who has appointed whom you have resolved, who has appointed the perpetrators before you, who was the minister before you. Should I say you take care of the ministers before you do. I don't mean personally if there were any, we didn't come to the Ministers having their own perpetrators, that would be terrible. We didn't even think that, we didn't even say that. Yes, we're referring to the perpetrators you have to take care of. You're responsible for this state of affairs and security, and that's a fact, and we're just asking you, we want to help you. We say, withdraw this law and we make a new law in the fall, to transfer the executioners nicely, to the courts, and that the competent state authorities are doing this job to take care of both the trustee and the debtor in the same way, not to be privileged among the creditors or the debtors. That's what we want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59619	Thank you. According to the amendment, the People's MP Veroljub Arsic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59620	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, unlike some colleagues, I am not in favor of going back to the way things were and the execution process being done by the courts. They proved ineffectiveness and often lasted ten and a half years regardless of any legal action in the enforcement procedure being done by the court. That is why they resorted to private contractors who would do the job with a reward, and that is more successful. To be clear, the obligation created must be paid regardless of whether it was based on certain municipal services or loans, or a company to a company of companies, and so d It is good that we have today in the debate one law that would limit the costs, execution and method of enforcement carried out by individual private perpetrators. What does it look like without this law, amending and supplementing the law? Here, I'll give you a heads-up. For the basic debt amounting to only 1.131dinar and which is to be charged, there are certain costs and all these costs are acceptable if they are actually incurred during the enforcement process. Here, this is how it goes - on behalf of the composition of the proposal to execute 3,600 dinars. This is probably the lowest tariff that a public executioner can apply, although it is one paper containing five or six rows or views. Now, we come up with those sums of costs made by private contractors, which is - on behalf of the compensation for the successful personal delivery to the executive debtor of 1,080 dinars. He says it's personal, and it was done through a public postal operator. Then - on behalf of the fee for preparing, running and archiving items amounting to 2,160 dinars. Well, then it goes - on behalf of the compensation for delivery to the parties involved in the procedure and court of 1,444 dinars. Well, then, on behalf of the compensation for the collection of reasoned solutions and conclusions of 864 dinars. Look, we already have here on behalf of the composition of the proposal to execute, or 3,600 dinars, that's the solution. Why in one procedure do we make more parallel shops in taxes and costs of the process, and in fact it is only one? And then, of course, the famous prize – on behalf of the compensation for the work of the executioner for the successful execution of 1,080 dinars. Thus, the party to the procedure against which the execution of the basic debt of 1.131.74 dinars is to pay more than 10,000 dinars, on behalf of the costs of conducting the procedure. I think all the rewards and fees the perpetrators need to have, and I know that after this, there will be a new tariff rule going in the direction that the benefits they receive for their work are proportionate to the debt the debtor owes to his trustee. As previously done means that they pay some of the costs that are ten times the amount of the basic debt, especially since all of these things, other than the first ones -- in the name of the composition of the proposal for the execution and delivery to the executive debtor, are all other pairs of costs, it does not exist. There is, for example, no – on behalf of the fee for preparing, managing and archiving items amounting to 2,160 dinars, will put one paper in the registrator. On behalf of the pay for the successful personal delivery, and he delivered through a public postal operator... On behalf of the compensation for delivery to the mail parties, then another 900,00 din, in the previous case of 1,800, 2,700 dinars, which someone went to the post office. In the name of the fee for putting together reasoned solutions and conclusions, so that's the first thing, that's it, that's one act, they're gone. Handing costs, one shop, three gone. A reward bigger than a basic debt, so it can't. These are the problems we have and I am sure that by amending and supplementing the law on enforcement we will finally stand up to a certain will, to the people we have given public authority, who are required to work on the functioning of the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, to ensure the collection of claims, but in this desire we cannot allow them to literally do whatever they want.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59621	Thank you, colleague Arsic. Comrade Radeta, do you want to follow the amendment? You've identified yourself in the words of your colleague Arsic. [[Replication of Radeta: No, Replica.]] The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59622	Yes, my colleague Arsic came out of this amendment that we talked about and actually went back to something that we talked about yesterday on one of my other amendments. He talked here about handing over, the costs of handing over, and so on, the handings would be much more effective if the courts were to do so, because the court officials would do so, because the callers would carry it, which they would do all day long, or in two shifts, as courts or local self-government do, when they leave over their suppliers, when they deliver certain letters, then they do so within their pay, and they don't do it until the end of their working hours when they can't find anyone like the mailmen do, so there's no way of proving that someone left a mailman in the mailbox that he should go to the post office to pick up a certain writing. How will it be delivered through the postman in villages where mailmen don't come every day? Here is one of the colleagues, whether a colleague of Milija, or Marijan Risticevic, spoke about the executions in rural households and there should be the delivery of those letters, of course electronically, because in villages there are mostly no internet. Postmen in many villages, believe it or not, don't come every day. Say, in the village of Babusenjica, send a telegram Friday to offer some condolences, in the post office you are informed that only Tuesday will someone receive that telegram. And in such communication, you expect that, say, people in the villages who have some debts will be able to resolve them by informing themselves via electronic boards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59623	The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59624	I'm reporting for the amendment now. First of all, one fact should be pointed out that all amendment promoters who dispute certain provisions of the proposed law cannot doubt. While we had bailiffs, we had in certain courts, then municipal courts and five, six perpetrators, and the execution proceedings lasted a year with huge costs per the budget of the Republic of Serbia, inexplicably high costs. Then he accumulated himself in thousands and tens of thousands of cases of execution in courts. This was the basic reason why the legal order of the Republic of Serbia had the necessary need to address the problem and tackled the introduction of public enforcement officers to whom public authorities were transferred. That's exactly why we have solved, as a government or part of the government, to say -- okay, that's enough, we can't take what the target of the Republic of Serbia is anymore, we need to train the functioning of the court, we need to make procedures more effective, we need to prevent various kinds of abuses, and we need to especially prevent what was the most serious violation of the party in the process, and that is a violation of the right to trial within a reasonable time. Therefore, the justification for the introduction of public enforcement authorities cannot be absolutely disputed in a reasoned way. Secondly, when I said that I was dissatisfaction with public executioners coming out of here and mentioned the lynch, that's what I said metaphorically. Why? Because the negative labelling of public perpetrators can be viewed in different ways and cause certain consequences that are not exactly harmless, and they can even lead to civil disobedience, and that civil disobedience implies – whatever, I don't care what you came for, you don't interest me. I will not implement what you are asking me to do, and that is very dangerous, then it is undermining the legal order of the Republic of Serbia. Thus, the problem associated with courts ten years ago, when courts were burdened with an extremely large number of cases, was resolved and resolved by the introduction of public executioners. We are going back to courts and burdening the state again and burdening the Republic's budget with enormously high amounts of taxis and taxes and so on, I think it's out of every sense and comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59625	Right on the line, the People's Messenger of the Faith of the Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59626	Incredibly, we will protect the budget of the Republic of Serbia, of course, with the attention of a good host, but it is impossible to explain it this way. We won't bring the executioners back to court because that's how we're going to protect the budget. It's simply not a solution and please, who's talking about undermining the legal system, who's calling for civil disobedience? Don't even get us close to something like that. So we're a state-of-the-art party and all this stuff we're doing, we're doing to help both the people and help the state. Mrs. Kuburovic, in the meantime, I heard from him, and here's a message on the phone, a man who says you were wrong when you said what you were explaining to me if I had some long info to see when I got the bill. Do you know what they're doing? They're not allowed to do that until two, three months ago. You don't pay the bill for July three years ago, and you paid your May bill this year and you get the next bill without notice that you have a debt for that June of three years ago. Do you understand? What I said was that after three years, even though obsolescence occurred, someone was charged that debt. So here's what I've been telling you about how it's done. Here, the man says that out of his minimum pension, 120,000 perpetrators took off and left him nothing on his pension, because he sued for some unpaid earnings, so it turns out that the court said that the lawsuit wasn't filed within the deadline, so he had to pay a court fee and he paid in this way that they didn't take care of the pension, but they got to take down 120,000 plus all their expenses and they did it nicely and they don't care about the interests of the citizens, and we care about the interests of the people and the interests of the state, and we don't call for civil disobedience. We're not from that group of parties and don't put that in our mouths.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59627	Right on line, MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59628	I thank you, Chairman. I did not say that anyone is calling for civil disobedience, but that a dangerous consequence can be created, and that means that citizens are percepting everything that we're talking about in the wrong way, because we've identified, that is, the amendment promoters qualify public perpetrators in an extremely negative context. What effect can it have? It can result from the same negative context and from citizens of the Republic of Serbia. That should be avoided anyway. Far from being imputed to anything in the sense of calling. No, I don't. What's about the delivery, it's not just about the executioner. Whether the JKP delivers the accounts neatly, it is not a public executioner's issue. Whether the CAP has evidence that the accounts have been delivered, i.e. that the executive debtor has received them, is once again observed through the prism of other provisions of this law that we are talking about, which means that if the executive debtor says - I did not receive the bill, then he declares an adequate legal remedy against the solution that is determined to implement the enforcement and can even result in litigation. Therefore, each executive debtor has effective legal means at his disposal, and that effective remedy can always be used to protect his interest. Let us not mix what is related to the perpetrators in carrying out the execution in relation to what involves the procedural provisions of this law that are very well normized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59629	Right to the replica of the People's Messenger of the Faith of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59630	This is really amazing. Now I need you here to talk to me. I don't know what kind of chosen words to keep someone from getting hurt by an executor. All of us here can say – the perpetrators are a gift of God, the perpetrators are the best of Serbia, and the people can't see them, and we don't invite anyone to execute or beat them, and we don't know what to do, but we say that, yes, the people, the perpetrators, you're right, they're evil, the public executioners have to end, the public executioners abuse what they've been given as an opportunity to do, the public executioners rob through their fees, through interest that I don't even know how they're calculating, and it's all true. We don't need to talk about it differently. Now, fellow, if it affects you if I say that public perpetrators are evil unseen and you get the desire to beat up some public executioner when you meet him, what can I do to affect my discussion with you, but I don't believe that other citizens think so, too. For three days now, I said, never again replace the thesis of this, and only because it confirms to us how right we are, and then you have no arguments to oppose our arguments and then say - how you qualify public executioners. Exactly what they are, exactly how they are... Here's fellow Milly, are the public executioners coming to your villages there? The man who bought the tractor doesn't even get a notice because he doesn't do his mail, what's going on? It just comes to him from the executioner that he has to pay me don't know how much with all his great costs. I can ask every single person if it's happening in his place.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59631	Thank you. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59632	Madam Minister, you seem to be living separately compared to this reality. If you and your associates were so long here is Mr. Ćosic, who has seemed to me since 2000 at the Ministry of Justice, Mrs. Jelena Deretic, who is really good at talking to this matter, invested in the quality of the work of judicial executioners, I don't think there would be any more problems, and other than what I'm about to use, we can't prove to you that we're not in favour of the system and anything else. Here, I now urge all debtors to make an effort to tighten the belt, to settle their obligations so as not to come under attack, I repeat, boast, ossion and in most cases bad public executioners. You're here to boast that you've replaced three or four or five perpetrators compared to about 200. There are 217 totals of three assistants who are almost working evenly. You know, it's nothing. Dear citizens, whenever you can, when you're able to meet your obligations, you do it to protect yourself and protect yourself. I don't know what the connective tissue is between you and DS, who first introduced public executioners? If it wasn't the EU, if it wasn't some other personal interest, I don't know what could be so much, I would say unsuccessfully. This has no basis and this won't take long. It's completely pointless to try to keep it going. Here are two amendments submitted by the Guardian of Citizens. There's no need for me to speak here on his behalf. He was looking for a practical thing, and did you see in his report that the most complaints from citizens addressing the Protector of the Citizens were local authorities and public executioners? Do you know what he was looking for? He asked that, besides the e-table, she stay on the board in court. All that is presented as a lack of that table is true, but I will list several villages – Gornja Košlje, Gornja Komarica, Gornja Kominje, Gornji Konjuci, Gornji Kordinci. Do these people have any contact and can they read on the advertising board that the public executioner is acting on their case?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59633	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 31st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, colleague Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59634	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, the perpetrators, the very word "executors" means that they are carrying out something for which they have a warrant, that is, to execute what the previous court has ordered. I keep trying to tell you that judicial executioners and courts are not sacred, that courts are wrong and for these mistakes the judges do not respond. It's legal. For any decision taken by the court, the judge shall bear no responsibility. The executor is carrying it. Except that we're cutting their tariffs and sharpening some of the relationships in execution, nothing else is done here. They're not dangerous perpetrators per citizen. They're not dangerous laws per citizen. They're dangerous courts and judges. If the judge makes a decision and a solution to the execution, the executioner shall carry it out. And so the word "executor" means that he's just doing something that someone else has previously decided. That is why, in my opinion, the arguments that problems should be sought in judicial, or judicial decisions, rather than just the perpetrator's. No one likes perpetrators. That's where we can agree. But they just come at the end. Previously, someone else decided to subscribe to the sale, to settle the trustee, etc. That's not what executors do. That's what courts do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59635	Thank you. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 33rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59636	For the second day of discussion in particular, Mrs Kuburovic, we are trying to explain to the citizens that you are wrong when you say that what the SRS stands for, which is that this job is returned to the courts and to the judicial perpetrators, is not good and effective. Citizens need to know, and now, here we are, how you've been teaching as assistant minister in 2014, 2015 and 2016, the enforcer and led by the commission, who chose the perpetrators, participated in the draft of the law, you were the person who participated in the drafting of the rules on their code of conduct. What is the rule and what is the code we see on the back of the citizens by that mob click? Now she tried a colleague, or she explained to the citizens and gave the example, yesterday, by my colleague Mircic, to explain that there is a huge difference, because when a court dispute is being conducted, there is a burden of proof for what you owe someone, which is why it is so, whether this debt, as it has arisen, whether it can be reduced, disputed, and now, since 2011, since these public executioners exist, citizens can't do anything but wait for when to take away their pensions, salaries and have to pay. Because, on the basis of a credible I.D., as they are called, the order they receive from Electrodistribution, in Belgrade from Infostan, utility companies in my city, etc., they at all, although they have the opportunity to express that objection within eight days, actually do not have that possibility, because they never get that notice, or rarely when, for outdated debts and the most drastic examples are in the countryside. In Serbia, according to official electricity statistics, there are 200-300,000 houses that have only a number that is not used. Every month, 736 dinars. People don't live here. Here, maybe there in Good, where the Arsics came from... (President: Bringing the end, colleague. Here, I'm done. If they don't pay it one or two months, they don't get bills, the executioner will charge ten times more and that's the only truth. There are tens of thousands of cases like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59637	Thank you. National MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 34th amendment. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59638	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you have intervened here on Article 67 of the basic law, and you, when the execution decisions are contained on the basis of a credible document, have complemented this legislative provision with identical rules applicable to the content of an enforcement decision on the basis of an executive document, and have first determined that enforcement can be determined on the entire property of the executive debtor, and consequently, if the executive trustee has not indicated the means and the subject of enforcement in the proposal, that the public enforcer, without a proposal from the Executive Trustee, draws a conclusion that, following the identification of the property of the executive debtor, determines the means and the subject of execution. You and this legal provision have protected the rights of the trustee, which we have been telling you for two days, and the law equally must protect the rights of the trustee and the rights of the debtor. If we look at the work of public perpetrators, we can conclude on the basis of all the knowledge of abuse cases, that public perpetrators are the greatest evil and the worst thing Serbia has, because they are given unlimited rights by law. We are for the public executioners to be abolished and to return the process of execution to courts. Because of their operation, I will list only a few examples, i.e. the consequences of their actions on Serbian citizens, so it is said - the perpetrators sold the house to them, kicked the children out in the cold; a house of 170 square meters sold for 5,000 and 500 euros. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59639	National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 35th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Saviæ, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59640	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, greed is a vicious disease that, unfortunately, has gripped all the pores of our society and a huge number of individuals. The introduction of the perpetrator into our legal system created a perfect bridge, a perfect connection to make all these kinds of greed come true. It is not only the perpetrators of the great evil of this society, but it is all those who do their logistics, who give them jobs and who make them who they are. A Belgrade family I know came to me last night, a few months away, outside of Belgrade, came in a few days ago, and they found a bill, or better to say a reminder of electricity. It's about a pretty small amount, seven or eight thousand dinars, and if they don't pay that bill within a month, they'll be cut off by electricity. Of course, it's about very responsible people. The man went straight to distribution and paid for it. As if he knew, he asked - do I owe you anything else? They answered him there - you owe us nothing, but you owe it to the perpetrators. And indeed, if the warning was sent within 30 days, did that institution, EPS, have to immediately pass it on to the perpetrators, in order for that man besides those seven-eight thousand, how much he owed, perhaps, who knows how much more he paid? So it's not just the perpetrators of evil, it's all those who help them, and there's a lot of them.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59641	Thank you. Member of the 36th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59642	We have proposed eradicating this article, and it refers to Article 74, because there is no fundamental difference between the existing member and the one you are now changing, except that you have proposed reasons to deny the solution for the reasons prescribed by the special law. Well, we're always against these indefinite situations, because they're always the reasons for abuse, the basis for abuse. You see how the perpetrators, here, also arrived to us e-mail, Alexander Markovic, a man signed, he has an executive solution since 2014. So he's a trustee, but this perpetrator who's got to charge that expense on his behalf, he's in line with the debtor. It's probably a question of, I don't have the exact data, the man didn't write, it's probably a work dispute, because that's what happens when it comes to a work dispute, for example, then the employee who got the work dispute gets the right to pay him back, and then the executioner's not on his side because he's going to get it from that trustee, from that legal person who's supposed to pay those missed earnings, he's going to get more compensation than he would be paying to do. So they're doing the theft on both sides. It's simply that click, the sect, whatever you want, that Serbia needs to be free of. Because they like NAED, that's why nobody likes them anymore in Serbia. Everything NAED has done in Serbia, we bear the consequences and we will bear for years.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59643	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 37th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59644	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the execution is a miracle. Those who were the most notorious perpetrators are not spoken here. We are talking about the executions carried out by the perpetrators, and the most successful of them, unfortunately for us, is a party to the former regime. Property was sold, not quite public, half secret, property of 7,000,000 citizens. Social property was property belonging to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Each of the 7,000,000 had a share of the property. The citizens didn't owe anything. Most of them suffered the burden of military and economic pressures on our country, and then the yellow perpetrators came, today depicted in the alliance of thieves, frauds and Latvians, and carried out the sale of the entire property of citizens and did not bring them just without property, but was fired, through this privatisation or grabbing, from 400 to 600,000 people. They haven't seized half their salary, they've taken their full salary, their dignity, and their ability to earn their pension. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59645	Thank you. Member of the 38th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Despotovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59646	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the draft law amending and supplementing the law on enforcement and security, we have proposed that Article 38 be deleted by reason of replacing the law with local jurisdiction. The Serbian Radical Party first saw chaos in this area and immediately intervened through public performances, printing specialties "Great Serbia", the stands, petitions by Serbian citizens, as well as this assembly speaker. In order to draw attention to the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Resolute Ministry, as well as to the congregation's majority, we are witnessing that public executioners have misused their monopoly position, as well as great powers, until all norms fall into people's homes, apartments, cottages, without notice and come at any time of the day, and even when the debtor is not present. I ask you, did it take three years, or seven years, to see this inhumane relationship towards its citizens? So, in the light of this bill, you admitted the need to intervene and change significantly in this part, which is the perpetrators, their deputies, their assistants, as well as other persons employed by the perpetrators fully exempt and that they cannot be customers in the enforcement process, whether they act in a specific case or not. I believe you are late in the bill of this law, because in three years many citizens have lost their roof over their heads and are unable to do anything to preserve or recover their property. Finally, I would like to draw attention, in addition to everything the Serbian Radicals have said so far about this bill, that after the presentation of Parliament Speaker Mrs. Maja Gojkovic, who also took a critical look at this bill, is more than enough to withdraw from the procedure and pass a new law on the abolition of court enforcers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59647	Thank you. National MP Tomislav Ljubenovic submitted to the 39th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 43 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59648	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the perpetrators are unpopular, especially in this session, and the courts are sacred. I will, again, describe the case from India, when the land of the General Agricultural Cooperative "Srem" was sold, 180 hectares for about 500,000 euros, although the value of the building land was around 20m euros. The execution was done overnight. The conclusion that he was supposed to hang on the ad board was just stabbed with a nail, immediately the one who was supposed to buy it took it off so that someone else wouldn't see it. It's a public sale. The court waited for the deposit to be deposited after being cashed, and that wasn't legal. Then the court waited a few hours to deposit it at the Vojvodina Development Bank, which was the official bank of the drpocrat side. It's all been done by courts. Here, mostly trees and stones are thrown at perpetrators, which are certainly not impeccable, and the alternative is about courts. What I've asked myself is worse about courts than perpetrators. The executioners carry out the orders of the courts. What are they, I have just explained to you, that in a small environment, where the director of a General Agricultural Cooperative Srem belongs then to one of the ruling parties, in a fined business with the chairman of his party's board, decides to sell 180 hectares of building land for 400,000 euros and the court helps with that without any sanctions and penalties. That's why I'm saying, for the public, they're not as dangerous as the perpetrators, they're not as dangerous as the laws, they're as the judges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59649	Thank you. The 43rd amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59650	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've never particularly appreciated those people who are lightly in charge, who are one debt replaced by another, who understand this life by the system, we will easily. However, introducing judicial perpetrators is the worst way, so the state has found the worst way to make such a phenomenon stand in the way. There are many other, even more efficient ways and why not look into the legislation of other countries. Here, let's say, the Russian Duma has passed the Law on Personal Banking, so bankruptcy is personal, where it's prescribed exactly how and how this bankruptcy is done, where a man can't be taken away from the apartment he lives in, he can't be taken away from his car, he can't have his laptop and his cell phone. Everything else is the subject of seizing, taking, etc. The lawyers know that better. So you can't charge someone's debt if you take away all the opportunities that are at his disposal to settle that debt eventually. So you can't cut someone's wings and then ask him to fly. Executors. It's an organization that's so networked, where literally an ordinary man can't understand it, or even representatives of the state and the justice system, the Justice Department can't reach them and see what they're doing. We have situations to, say, pay off the debt. For example, one perpetrator tried to do something with one debtor, failed, another perpetrator who thought it would be possible, that he might have stronger instruments or stronger arguments, to do a ransom from him debt. We have cases where practically this one debtor only reached the fourth executioner who managed to collect, better say, to make a debt.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59651	Thank you. The 43rd amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Stojanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59652	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Ministers with Associates, I have submitted an amendment to Article 43 relating to Article 1(7) of the new Article 87 of the current Amendments and Supplements Act. With this amendment of mine, I asked that the above be deleted. The position of the SRS is that enforcement through public enforcement authorities must be suspended immediately. Of course, we are not against execution as a phenomenon that must exist in every country and society. These must be state authorities, because in that case abuses will be the least. Accepting this amendment protects national and national interests. Each country must first be state and national interests and the state of Serbia in this regard should not be any exception. I hope this power won't allow people to continue to suffer for the haughtiness of individuals. At the end of the NATO aggression, I had to leave my native Gjilane, and I personally felt that it seemed to run out of my property overnight. So I ask you to take a good look at all the amendments submitted by the SRS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59653	National MP Petar Petrovic submitted to the 43rd amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 46 of the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Seselj, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59654	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. We still haven't heard a concrete argument about the existence of a public enforcement institution. So, the fact that the courts are incompetent and buried and that we have now done a good thing, i.e. that the Assembly and the Government have done a good thing, that they have disbursed the courts, shows in some way the inability to reach both the SNS Government and the DS Government with the problem, because the easiest thing is when there is a problem. Instead of getting rid of it, to just say it cannot be solved, here we have a private person to do it, so we can act on every action, and here the scandal is even greater, since one of the powers of the state, therefore, the court, the judiciary and part of the government, one of the three branches of the government, therefore, the jurisdiction of the court, the jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia has given itself to a private person. That's what's wrong with this solution here. From all that, whether we change this member, or that member, unless the essence changes, the problem will not be solved. So the problem is that one person takes extra profits that could have been state, state income within reasonable frameworks, not that they are abnormally rich from only one claim. This is what the privateer is doing now, and we comfort ourselves that this privateer hired someone and gave him a salary and paid his taxes, and the state gave up something that could have been a clear revenue for the budget and, in addition, gave up its powers.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59655	Thank you. National MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 47th amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Nikolic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59656	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we've intervened on Article 47. A proposal for a law which, if the third party’s objection has been rejected or rejected, that person may initiate a litigation procedure to determine the inadmissibility of enforcement. We believe that the amendments proposed are not good, but that the existing legal solution is fairer and that provisions on a litigation procedure are applied to the litigation process. We have repeatedly pointed out to you that first of all, the execution must take care of the dignity of the debtors, as well as to make it as unfavourable as possible for the debtor himself. However, practice has shown that executioners are absolutely not concerned with the dignity of the debtors, but that they are behaving arrogantly and insolently, and that a person is obliged does not mean that he is less valuable and that he should be treated without respect. Public perpetrators are obliged to respect the ethical code and standards of professional behaviour, but for behaviour that does not comply with this, there are no sanctions and objections relating to the behaviour of public enforcement officers, which are provided by the Chamber of Public Executives, mostly remain a dead letter on paper, because they are decided by the Disciplinary Commission of Executives. Over 750 complaints have been filed to the perpetrators in the last year. The question is, will you remove the damage the public perpetrators have done by abuse of their official position and have you identified as a ministry... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59657	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 49th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 50 of the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Comrade Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59658	Unless we're just calling. You are calling for this solution to be brought not by the forwarding majority, but by the majority of the DS, you are thus showing no concern for the citizens of Serbia and the disastrous consequences that the Institute of Public Executors apparently has. As we have already said, one legal solution is not one for all time, any law can be changed if the congregation majority votes another law. So it's a legally established procedure. Now that someone says, yes, we are against, we know that the perpetrators are able to abuse their powers and that they are rarely those profits and those charges for the great execution process, that the debtor is in an unfavourable position, yes, it is happening, but it has brought DS... The responsibility in the last seven years is exclusively on the advances, and you should have that in mind and that, if you really don't recognize the problem in this, you should consult statistics and see how much the family has really lost a roof over their debts that are miserable compared to the values of these properties. That's obviously not what you're worried about. It only takes care of the execution statistics. No one controls how much the perpetrators have earned on the basis of these executions, or how many families have lost their home.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59659	Thank you. Member of the 53rd Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? Here's my colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59660	There are different cases where people absolutely couldn't react, couldn't save their property, and when the court in the litigation procedure decided to do them harm. Because of the limited time of two minutes, I'm going to make one truly fragrant example -- how the lady lost her apartment. It is Mrs Tijana Anicic who made a three-way contract in 2007 with the first owner of the apartment and the investor. Namely, the first owner of the apartment committed himself to returning the apartment to the investor and it was their triple contract. She then bought it, but with the obligation to make up for some other apartment or money to the investor's original owner. Since this guy didn't do it, after a while he asked that Mrs. Tiana's apartment that she had paid neatly must pay him back, because he didn't get the money from the investors. Then, of course, the court that acted in that case reached a verdict where there was no judgment at all and if the triple contract between them was confirmed. And only later when she filed a complaint, or her team of lawyers, to the Court of Appeals she was involved in the litigation process. But that doesn't delay execution, that's exactly what these members of the law are talking about, because who knows when and how long it will take, and the perpetrator came and said – ma'am, go outside. What about those workers, Mrs. Kuburovic, who are being chased by perpetrators for unpaid utility accounts? Many of them have done so knowingly, because they have no bread to eat, they have no place to eat, so they prevent them from buying a bun and yogurt to the child today, and their businesses have not paid them according to their work disputes, and if they have executive judgments.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59661	I thank my colleague Jovanovic. National MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 55th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59662	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in this 125th article, you added Article 4 to which the motion to postpone execution was submitted, as well as the objection against a solution rejected or rejected a motion to postpone the execution and we intervened and requested that this member be deleted, because we believe that the objection must delay the execution, because otherwise it is irreparable damage. If we know how the perpetrators in Serbia work, then we know it will certainly be a great shame. For example, an apartment of about 60 square meters was sold for less than 30,000 euros, a 570-square house sold in Belgrade for 13,000 euros, then a three-member family house in Nis sold for 7,000 euros, etc. I don't want to pick it up. Executors charge their debts without any order or rule. First, the debtors are kicked out of the house, then sold that property at a significantly lower price. I would ask the question again, which is - who and how will remove the damage done by the perpetrators and have you as a ministry determined the amount of damage that public perpetrators have done by abuse of their official position? That's where the only question is whether you want it or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59663	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 55th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 59 of the amendment, MPs Milena Bicanin, Natasa Mihailović Vacic, Slavica Zivkovic and Jasmina Karanac submitted together. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. I'm a colleague of Milena Bicanin's, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59664	Thank you, Chairman. We four colleagues from the SDPS parliamentary group submitted an amendment relating to Article 59. The bill, which sets out Article 131 of the Law and adds a new stance, which it says - provides for an unambiguous provision to impose fines on any other person who interferes or prevents enforcement. The explanation that we have submitted was not enough for the legislator, and I will agree that I am not satisfied with that argument either, since I am calling for the principle of solidarity, so since there was no solidarity from the legal service in adequate help in writing this amendment, indeed one historian and one young politician could not cope, but we had a very generous intention that I suppose we would all understand. I refer to the principle of solidarity and, among other things, in this explanation, we wrote it this way – the birth of a person creates the right to freedom and equality. It also creates the right to solidarity as an expression of human dignity, which is unrepeated and which everyone is obliged to respect and protect. So if we go from the premise, which we all represent here, which is that the debt really is a bad friend, and that every debt has to be paid, I really don't understand, but I am telling you honestly, why are citizens who provide solidarity support by gathering where it is done, where the execution process is right now, why are these people who are in danger of being punished, why are they unequivocally saying – if they interfere and prevent execution, why will they be punished, why, after that, if they don't pay that punishment, absolutely unequivocally, go to prison and what is so wrong with what they do? They express solidarity with a man who's in trouble, which we absolutely understand, and that's why I'm asking you, if we've already brought it, I think you're sending a bad message first of all. We have proposed through this bill that the debtor will, of course, pay high interest if it is delayed, provide penalties for those who interfere and prevent and then, in my opinion, the bad message of society is expressed in the next – if you want to be a solid pay. The message is bad, so I ask you, and I really ask you for one explanation, because I don't understand why the solidarity of citizens or organisations that, to call on this principle of solidarity, is solidarity with those who need to lose their only home, which is the most difficult question here, is their expressed solidarity in conflict with the general interest of society that is constantly called upon to the principle of solidarity and to lack of solidarity, and I'm afraid that with such a solution we're going to open a dangerous field that we won't, we're going to raise a branch that we're going to find difficult to stop, and we have a deficit with understanding of the principle of solidarity. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59665	The word has a minister, Mrs. Kuburovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59666	I thank the chairman. Just one little clarification. No one here punishes a peaceful gathering of citizens. It is punished by one who prevents an official from carrying out a particular action and no penalty is imposed by the executioner. A fine can only be brought to court. I will remind you, the execution in some situations can be carried out by the court, and the judge and the bailiff may also be distracted by the execution of such an execution as the execution of the child's assignment. So, preventing an official from performing his shop is certainly for punishment. A peaceful gathering of citizens absolutely cannot be punishable in any way. Well, even this member of the law isn't prescribed. It's just the guy who's the one who's the official insinuating the store. A peaceful gathering cannot in any way prevent execution.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59667	Thank you. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 59th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Peric, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59668	Madam Minister, I will give you two cases specifically out of practice and if it is not enough for you to change and correct your views, then it is clear to the citizens of Serbia. So, the Delic family, yesterday I started it, from Prijepolje was condemned to make up for the litigation of the state in the amount of around 290,000 with court costs and since they did not do so within a litigation period, that is when they were able to fulfil their obligation without an execution procedure, then the perpetrator also joined. Although the four of them, the father, son and two daughters, are in a position to make up for those expenses, the father did it alone. He did so after making a decision by the court to settle his obligations and did so, fulfilled both the obligations of court proceedings and paid the costs to the executioner. He proved it, at the expense of the executioner Zvezna Rajovic from Užica. A few days later, there are also four solid creditors on the opposite side. They apply against all four solid debtors, although the act has already been fulfilled. Then there's hell for the Delic family. Those in the file, i.e. the proposal to execute, cite even their receipts and a car used almost exclusively for the transport of children distracted by development. That's the mistake both the court and the executioner made. In another case, the same executor also acts. I'll explain that second case to you in the second amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59669	Thank you, colleague Peric. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 59th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, pal Jojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59670	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, the democratic power between 2000 and 2012 was in dirty hands. I'm free to say that, because that democracy has paved the way for this state of concern. I believe that you will still have in mind what the MPs have said and that citizens from hour to hour report to the MPs of the SRS, where certain objections and objections stand out. What I'd like to remind you is that corruption in the judiciary is our government. Greenery, for the crime of greenery in Article 217, is prescribed a sentence of up to eight years, and how do courts do that? If the state is a trustee, there's no problem it's going to be charged to skin off, but if the state is in a position to owe citizens there's an inefficient judiciary. What I want to ask, Madam Minister, is when it will be abolished. Since the government is proposing, and the Assembly is making a decision on the election of public prosecutors and public prosecutors, when it will stop in Serbia v.d. The state of the public prosecutors who have introduced the Democrats in fashion? It's high time to end it, V.D. State and V.D. The prosecutor's office can be the longest year, and you have in practice not one, but five years. I'll continue later.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59671	Thank you. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 60th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. I'm a friend of mine. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59672	I'll keep going. So Delic Muharrem fulfilled his obligation, delivered evidence, although it was paid to the executioner, provided evidence that he had done so, was required by his son Omer, the daughter of Amelia, and Elmela, a subsequent fulfillment of the obligation. The perpetrator was required under official duty to notify that the obligation had been fulfilled, did not do so. The same contractor acts in the case of a number of employees at the “Polimlje” Press House from Prepolje, 85 years has the tradition of the newspaper. During privatisation, the owner remained in debt or reduced employees' earnings. The work dispute lasted five years, the execution of two years, the same perpetrator acts, no charge, which will likely be the current owner of the newspaper pays the contractor to wait a little with the case. Is that enough evidence that public enforcement authorities do not work in the interests of citizens, or in the interests of trustees, but exclusively in their own interest? The court, where everyone expects justice, expects protection, the public executioner is an occupation. It's like in "Juri" when you need as much as possible to complete some of the items or some of the materials they produce. You have made producers of high profits, not looking and not referring to the standard of living of Serbian citizens, who are true to will, sometimes appear as debtors. We mostly say, when we make concrete remarks and arguments and professional remarks, we think about what is normal, what is a regular phenomenon, and in no way do we protect any debtor who has to fulfill his obligation.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59673	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 61st amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59674	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since I've had contact with both the court and the private perpetrators, I can say again that our problem is the courts. In 2010 claims of 150,000 dinars, the bailiff did not do so. So, that's left unsolved. In 2014, on the basis of a proposal from the private executioner, the court adopted a solution to the execution on my salary, although photocopy of the resolution of the disposal fee issued by Bojan Pajtic, this photocopy was supposed to be a credible document, it did not appear on my behalf. They didn't even hit my sex. However, Judge Shivolski has been pounding a seal called the execution solution, and that seal is costing, I don't know, about 3,000 dinars, I guess. So, just a hit seal and a recorded number. The seal is the form of an execution solution. Based on the execution solution, there is no delay. The complaint was to be lodged within five days, which I did, the court had five days to resolve the objection, he did not resolve it for five months. Then, according to the judge, they covered their colleague by harmonising the alleged debts with my name and last name and saying it wasn't Mirjana, it was me. So much for our fair judgments. I think the perpetrators are less evil than the judges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59675	Thank you. The 6rd Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59676	In Article 63, which is actually a 141st member of the basic law, you predicted that each working day of 7-22 hours should be executed. We think it's absolutely inappropriate and that execution can take place in the maximum time possible, between 8 and 18 hours. It's just amazing that you're legally predicting someone breaking into an apartment at 7:00 a.m. or 10:00 p.m., that they're running these contractors with their crew as commandos. They don't see anything in front of them, they don't see little children, they don't see old or sick, they don't see people getting ready for work in the morning, they come without notice. So this has all happened before. Imagine that at seven o'clock in the morning you don't know that you're going to have an executioner, you're getting ready, there's a little kid, you're going to have to take him to kindergarten, or there's an old sick person, and you're going to be accompanied by a police officer to write things down for you because you owe a public company somewhere. So, this can be for the banal stuff because you haven't paid, here, once again to explain, the Info apartment account from three years ago, so that now they're in Belgrade, when they deliver the bill, they deliberately don't print the part where the old debt is written, they don't do it on purpose, and then it happens after a while, mostly when there's even an obsolescence, you get a public contractor without prior notice, and he, you imagine at 10 o'clock in the evening, he comes in to take your TV because you're supposed to owe you something that you might not even owe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59677	The word has a minister, Mrs. Kuburovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59678	Thank you, Chairman. Just one explanation. By amending and supplementing the law, absolutely no new time was introduced when execution was carried out. The current law states that execution can be carried out every day from seven to 22 hours, now we have changed exactly taking care of the interests of the debtor that it can be only every working day, which means that Saturday and Sunday are excluded from the implementation of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59679	Right on the line, the People's Messenger of the Faith of the Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59680	Well, generously, there's nothing. So, on Saturdays and Sundays, the kids get a good night's sleep, and from Mondays to Fridays, the executioner will be here at seven in the morning. It is true what you said, Mrs. Kuburovic, but if you changed that execution could only be a working day, that you hadn't thought to change this time. It's really inappropriate at seven o'clock in the morning and at 22 o'clock in the evening that someone's executioner comes to the door, even as they're boasting. I'm telling you, they don't see anything in front of themselves that would make some normal man think and say-- oh, sorry, you have a little baby, I'll come, not at seven in the morning, I'll be there at 12, or there's an old, sick, doesn't have to be old, unfortunately, sick, doesn't say-- her, sorry, you've got a sick face in your apartment, we won't do it now. No, he doesn't see it, he just sees what his prize is, how much he'll get from the Info apartment. Yesterday I explained to you about the account of 1,990 dinars, it's going to get 3,600 dinars, plus 1,800 dinars, and he just thinks about how many times, I'm talking about some small rewards, of course, when they come to move out of the apartment, it's just, it's just, I'm going to do it in some other amendment, it's just traumas people are experiencing. But really, come on, accept at least this amendment to show your first good will towards this kind of effort of the SRS, about our very good intentions, but show good will at least in one segment towards the debtors. Here, do it to them so that the executioner doesn't come to them in the morning at seven o'clock and at ten o'clock in the evening. Accept that they can come from eight to 18.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59681	Thank you. National MP Milorad Mircic submitted to the 64th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Mircic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59682	Ladies and gentlemen, it is inevitable that we here, no matter how legally justified the argument on the Constitution is based, come across a wall of silence. It's obviously become a rule. The DOS's coming to power in Serbia is ruled by new rules. It is irrelevant in Serbia since 2000, unfortunately and today, what the MPs think, what most citizens think. What matters is what those who regularly come to wait their turn to congratulate the American and other Western embassies think. Their opinion here is overwhelming. It doesn't matter what the SRS thinks about politics generally conducted in Serbia, it's what Sonja Licht thinks about it. No matter what the people think about spitting in Serbia as a genocide, it is important that Natasa Kandic approves it. How and in what way do the perpetrators act? And who cares that we are justifiably disputing everything that the biller is saying, it's important that the proposer uses every other sentence to say you're providing incorrect data. Who's interested in Chucici, Petrovici, Delicians and others who are victims of such a law, the law of the law? You don't care, just don't attach any meaning to it. That's the way it is for you gentlemen in all the colonies. In colonies, it doesn't matter what the citizens think, what they think, at the very least, and the government, it matters what the NGOs think, the listeners of the West. It's what NAED thinks that matters here. NAED has become a code. Everything NAED thinks is good for Serbia. IN A NAD of an evil father and a worse mother, they've never done anything in their life, they've never accomplished anything in their life, but their opinion is dominant.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59683	Thank you. On Article 65 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Radet. Does anyone want a word? My colleagues, Radeta, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59684	This member changes the existing Article 143 which speaks of a request for police assistance. Police assistance was also scheduled to be requested at least five days before the execution, now being moved to five working days. But it can't be said the same way about working days in Articles 141 and 143. Once again in article 143, you're helping the perpetrators to have a fact-finding police station to determine a team that will go with the perpetrators. And, among other things, the perpetrators call the police if there are expected to be some problems. How will he do so, such a smart-ass executive to assess whether a problem on the ground can be expected? You know, police should intervene in execution when there's a problem in the sense that the perpetrator may be physically endangered. What will the police do if I, as a MP, come and stand at the door of an apartment that the perpetrator wants to enter to drive out his family? Are you going to call the E.R. to remove my immunity, so that a police officer can move me out of the door? So you do something like that, you read somewhere that this might not be bad, but you can't get close to life, and this is a law that you can really get very close to life, to the everyday life of almost every man in Serbia or most of it. Don't just mention those who have huge debts, they'll find paltes to free them.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59685	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 67th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to Article 67 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Jovanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59686	Now I have to talk about the famous case of the executioner from hell, Mirjana Dimitrijevic. Imagine, and she participated in the creation of the previous law in 2016. Mrs. and Tanjugu have made a statement, as a member of the task force for the making of the law. It is an executive who earned 900 000 euros in a year. A woman who was a judge before that. Now the question is raised, Mrs. Kuburovic, what does one judge who does his job with honor and integrity, leave the judge's office and go to the executioners? Mirjana Dimitrijevic is certainly the reason why she could write for herself the law by which the cost of getting kicked out of an old woman's apartment with two grandchildren and a daughter would charge 11,000 euros. The judge can't write the law to set a salary for himself, but you have allowed Mirjana Dimitrijevic to participate in the making of the law and that Mrs. Dobril, in His street on Vračar, remember, this is a public-known case when solidarity neighbors, friends and relatives came to prevent Mirjana Dimitrijevic from kicking this family out of the apartment. She did it and imagine, she charged for it, here's a copy of the receipt here, 11,000 euros. Is that normal? You say "proportional costs." The goods that after 45 years were kicked out of the apartment with their daughter and with their grandchildren will have to be paid and taken from the pension of two-thirds because of the case of this truly woman in Hell Mirjana Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59687	Here you go, colleague Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59688	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The discussion of the previous speaker asked me to report when it comes to the case that took place at Vratsar, the accident that the previous speaker spoke about, it is the Petrovic family, if I am not mistaken. Petrovic Dobrila, given the circumstances, as someone who comes from Vrachar, I know something about the case. But to be clear, the previous speaker is most certainly right about everything she said. However, I have to point out another segment of that whole story, I would include the Vračar municipality, as someone not directly responsible for it, and we are talking about a family who, as you said for decades lived, for 45 years at Vrakar in that same apartment, the president of Vračar Municipality was in his own time familiar with the case. When I say the president of the municipality, I mean the then president of Branimir Kuzmanovic municipality, a prominent DS member. I also know that Mrs Petrovic was trying in some way to contact Vrakar municipality, him, to schedule a meeting, to schedule a conversation, that Vracar municipality also tried to find someone, any solution that would somehow result in some sort of agreement, some solution, some compromise, to avoid, unfortunately, that scenario that she had experienced. However, the municipal government of Vrakar did not have the hearing of such a thing at the time. They were absolutely not interested in seeing that woman and meeting, to consider the problem, to see what opportunities exist for overcoming the situation, not to see anyone in the 21st century in 2018 run out of roof over their heads. So, in this way, she demonstrated total negligence, completely ignored the real problems of that family, and we ended up in the situation that we came into. I feel the need to say that the SNS municipal board at Vracar was the only one who reacted in this unfortunate case, ensuring in time one aid that was not in favor of underestimating that family, that family thanked us, after all, and thanked us. I don't want to use this for political purposes right now, but, well, I needed to say it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59689	The right to replica has Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59690	You could be an MP in the Assembly to initiate an amendment to the law and to accept the bill, which will be your greatest contribution to this family and to any public who may not be as familiar as Mrs Dobrilli, her daughter and grandchildren. But here is the point, Mr. Markovic, which was led by the executor Mirjana Dimitrijevic, and she participated in lawmaking, a woman who reported in the first year of her work that she had earned 900,000 euros. She may have had this fall afterwards, a colleague of Radeta, as well as one who's in charge of EPS, Rankovic, but that's irrelevant, she's got over a million euros safe by now, earning money on human torment. That's what we're talking about here. And who established the yellow perpetrators, who later promoted them even more? It was just the minister who was sitting here, who was working on making the Rules of Conduct, as well as the notary, who was awarded a NAED award for an immeasurable contribution, a medal in the promotion of the law on enforcement and security.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59691	National MP Nedjo Jovanovic submitted to the 67th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Nejo Jovanovic submitted to Article 68 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 69 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Seselj, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59692	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. We had a chance to hear that civilization had arrived in Serbia and now we have this modern liquid called the electronic board. Now, since we have an electronic board, now the position of the debtor will improve for the better, we won't be in a situation where someone doesn't know when his eviction is planned. Therefore, the practice of public enforcement has shown us that very often not only has the debtor not only not been informed of how much his debt is due, because of all these commissions of executors that he determines himself and abnormal taxis, such as the tax for successful eviction, i.e. The execution, but he doesn't even know when his eviction was planned, i.e. Out of the apartment. And now we're trying to solve this problem by introducing an electronic board, so unless the debtor goes to inform the board, he'll be considered unconscious. It is obvious that public executioners are using this law for their own purposes and the enormous powers it gives them, all on the burden of the person in charge, without any notice. It won't change the electronic board. It will not change and will not introduce any control over what the property's obvious interest is in each public executioner's process.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59693	The amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic to article 71. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Mircic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59694	Ladies and gentlemen, we are surprised that the political parties of the social democratic province, where social solidarity comes first, are looking at the sides, except for one political party whose MP is here and how he stressed that social solidarity is needed. This is missing in the event of solidarity and the programme, the programme's definition of these parties. You didn't really change the program. It's not like you've been convinced by the promoter that social solidarity is the past. It's very interesting here what causes these problems the debtors face. Since 2000, citizens of Serbia have been urged, foreign banks come, there will be very favourable loans, you can solve your housing problems, you can buy farmers new machinery. No one then warned that it was not so favourable, that the prices in agriculture would rise, and that farmers would also be disabled because they would not be able to sell the price of their product so that they could service those loans. Secondly, we were here when the most responsible financial people literally pushed the citizens into debt. What was going on in the meantime? Continuity took place, utility prices grew, and income remained at the same level, incomes in the economy, not in the administration, it's an unrealistic increase. It is normal that their incomes could not cover the costs of utility services. And that's how the debt came to be. We need solidarity here, we need understanding.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59695	The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to Article 72 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Nikolic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59696	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have also asked for this member of the law to be deleted by amendment, and in this way we have once again shown our position that this whole law is not working, because if, during the course of the executive procedure, the owner of the property is changed, the implementation continues on the immovableity in question, and the new owner is obliged to endure the settlement. In that case, the public enforcement officer concludes that the enforcement procedure against the new owner should continue. It is undeniable that the status of the executive debtor can be misused, but even the new owner who can still be saved must not lead to legal uncertainty. The law must strike a balance between creditors and debtors, and we will propose this by a new law that will be in line with the needs of Serbia's state and citizens. It means a law that will be in the interest of all citizens, not privileged monopolies, and not according to EU directives. So, a new law that will respect the dignity and all rights of Serbian citizens. We ask that public executioners be abolished, and for debtors we will find a way to solve individual cases, primarily by paying off the debt in months of war, and we will prevent anyone from being left without a roof over his head and being thrown out into the street. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59697	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted the amendment to Article 73. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 74 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Seselj, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59698	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. I would have relied on what I said earlier, so no electronic board will help control public executioners when they're planning on eviction or execution. So practice has shown us that debtors are not informed not only of the height of their debt, but of the day or time when it will be executed. After that, after all this, means, is executed, the debt is charged, there is another debt that has been executed successfully. So, imagine, someone kicks you out of your apartment because of a debt of e.g. 3,000 euros or 4,000 euros and you're being escorted from the apartment by the police, and you have to pay for getting kicked out of your apartment. Here, it's this law and it's a public enforcement institute. The basic problem has not been solved by amendments to the law. The basic problem is deepening, and here we are offered some comfort in terms of some triviality, such as the electronic board. The main problem is to get in the way of abnormal wealth on already overindebted persons, taking extra profits from third parties from the debt-trust relationship. This will not be resolved by cosmetic changes, it can only be resolved by a new law, and the new law will bring out the Serbian Radical Party where the re-execution will return to judicial jurisdiction in the October regular session of the National Assembly, i.e. in the fall session. We are still in the process of collecting citizens' signatures for one such proposal, which already has more than 100,000 today.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59699	Thank you. The amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric to article 76. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Peric, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59700	No wonder public executioners behave like this, given the views expressed by the minister of justice here in this House. Mrs. Kuburovic, across the street, sits you down and gives you their views and concrete examples from the practice of living citizens in Serbia, people they just chose, and these people chose you. You sometimes appear selectively when you want to humiliate one of the MPs, first of all the MPs of the SRS, you call and ask a question, and when we present specific cases, you remain silent. We don't need you to answer it either, but what they presented to you as a concrete example, here's a confirmed colleague Markovic's case on which counterpart Natasa Jovanovic said he was absolutely correct. Note, check it out, I don't see you doing it, but occasionally turn to Mrs. Deretic to give you an example where you might be able to question the MPs of the SRS. Make sure that it is true that Draško Darijević, no, through the court's solution, is punished by a public executioner with 100,000 dinars because he did not provide assistance when he was to be executed in the cutting tool factory in Čačka. Check the Delic family case, which we talked about earlier, if that's true. Check the privatisation of Polimlje, whether it is true that the dispute lasted five years, that the execution was not settled after two years and that you should check some more of the cases that we have specifically talked to you about and answer to the citizens, you do not have to, but it is not correct to point to the MPs of the SRS or MPs at all who were elected by the same citizens. I can't even understand until the end of the day that our colleague Maja Gojkovic submitted one amendment and the President of Parliament and when she finished her speech... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59701	I thank my colleague, Peric. The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the 78th Amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleagues, Radeta, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59702	You have seen in Article 78 of the new Article 171a that the immovableity can also be sold on an electronic public tender, if so decided by the public contractor under official duty or on a proposal from the party. What party were you thinking of? The trustee probably. Why don't you accept the amendment where we said, we don't mind, it can be sold on an electronic public tender, but if that's how the parties are agreed in the process. What does that mean on the party's proposal? Which parties? You're showing again that you're on the executor's side. Of course, here, I'll do it again, I have time to set an example. Last year it happened, we forgot a little bank involvement in these transge-frangs combinations with the perpetrators. The Eurobank gave credit to a man who was a tenant in the Maurer family's apartment, and in March of last year, the family in Bulvar, Belgrade, was evicted, and the rest is to conduct a procedure to prove that they were a forged ID card based on which the tenant was credited. Of course, they sued both Eurobank and that tenant and so on, but imagine letting the perpetrators take thousands of euros, evicted the family, and so obviously they were evicted because the loan was given to their tenant, and put a mortgage on that apartment. Here's how they work, or what they're in, and that's what we told you the first day of the banks, specifically the Eurobank, the banks, bank officials, executives, and always some person who shows up to help them.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59703	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 79th amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague, Rističević, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59704	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is where banks and citizens' debts are mentioned. It's not us who brought foreign banks, foreign trade chains, that's what they did to sell out the property of all citizens, bring in foreign banks and foreign trade chains, and we started buying other people's goods, and the country ran out of production. I mean, if we can't steer the wind, then at least focus the sails a little bit. So it's up to us to solve the poverty some others left behind. We're all talking about the debts of Serbian citizens. These debts at the moment, thanks to Serbia's economic development, are the smallest in the region per capita. The average citizen of Serbia owes 2800 euros as far as I know, the average citizen in Croatia owes 9,000 euros, the average citizen in BiH owes 6,000 euros, and these are the best indicators that our country is coming out of the crisis. I look forward to Serbia's economic progress because only economic progress and better wages can reduce the debt to Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59705	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Mihilo Jokic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59706	Thank you. I've answered the word multiple times, Article 27, you haven't given me a chance to speak. Here, I am now taking the opportunity to say, in addition to all these discussions, is the fact that in 2008 and 2009 the judiciary was destroyed. The judiciary has become incapable of solving current problems. This law was necessary in 2015. Nobody said that. So this is necessarily the evil that was caused, implicated by the fact that those in power, I think, Malovic, Petrovic, had completely destroyed the judiciary, that the judiciary had become incompetent, that the best court personnel had left the court. This has led to this problem, the need to resolve the accumulated problems in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59707	National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 85th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 91 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 97 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 100 of the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? Here's your friend Stojanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59708	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the Honorable Ministers with Associates. I have submitted an amendment to Article 100. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on enforcement and security. With this amendment of mine, I asked for article 100 to be deleted. The position of the SRS is that enforcement through public enforcement authorities must be suspended immediately. The implementation of the enforcement procedure must remain in judicial jurisdiction if, at the very least, for the sake of a reduction in corruption. Corruption has always been a major social problem for all regimes, so this government is no exception in that regard. However, there is no successful fight against corruption unless the authorities show by personal example that they are really ready to deal honestly with corruption. But how do you believe this, if we know that many high-ranking state officials have come to their academic calling in a suspicious way. Cases of suspected diplomas and suspected PhDs of some state officials have never been resolved. Whoever in a suspicious way came to an academic calling is logically more prone to corruption than the one who came to that calling in a regular manner. Until cases of this kind of corruption are resolved, the overall fight against corruption will be a dead letter on paper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59709	National MP Nedjo Jovanovic submitted to the 101st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 103 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 105 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word. Here you go, colleague Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59710	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I believe that the government, through the Justice Minister, heard what the citizens of Serbia think today. Debtants should not live in this country under the siege of public executioners and feel like caged birds. This evil that has just been evaluated by my esteemed colleague who has made remarks, in any case he's right. But what I have to say is that justice reform has failed and that reform needs to be implemented as soon as possible and as soon as possible. You know how the situation was in 2009, 2010 since 2008 and how the choice of judges was made. What's worse in courts are all your representatives of yellow democracy. Now, they are in your courts, and as they judge and which is their effect, and what is the efficiency and economy of these proceedings, they should bear. For all these cases that Mrs Natasa Jovanovic, the Verica Radeta and our SRS MPs today have brought forward, the government must hear the people. That's basic. The message of Serbian radicals from this Assembly to Serbian citizens is -- this evil must be abolished and returned to court's jurisdiction. I have greater confidence in the court, but in the court, reforms must be carried out. You can't have V.D. in court. President for four years, you can't have a V.D. in the D.A.'s office. Deputy Public Prosecutor's Office or Prosecutor's Office in V.D. a condition for more than a year.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59711	Thank you, colleague Jojic. On Article 107 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59712	Once again, executioners from Hell Mirjana Dimitrijevic in Prilepska Street, the Municipality of Savski Venac, Belgrade on 20 March 2019, came to move the Vukasnović family, the Vuksanovic family that has been living here since 1936, and imagine why? Because the court decided again by some, probably corrupt judges, unfortunately there are, as did this Dimitrijevic woman who left the judge's office, so she went after the perpetrator, to earn 900,000 euros annually, found that they needed creditors, and six of them appeared, from former owners to return the house that has been there since 1999, no longer exists. Indeed, to praise Mrs. Vujović's reactions, although SNS member Irena Vujovic, who is the president of the Sava Venac municipality, who has sided with the Vuksanovic family because she is familiar with the case that Snezana Vuksanovic is part of the house based on the household rights that belongs to her and her family, I repeat again, in a house in which they have lived since 1936, but they had to tear her down and build a new house, because the old house was wasteful and very dangerous for that five-member family to live in. Is it normal for you, then, that there are still public executioners in Serbia when, here you see, that this one woman is harassing? Most importantly, Mr. Marinkovic, since they know that this one is ready for anything, so this one is probably able to step over the living people, this Mirjana Dimitrijevic, they were looking for it in March this year, before they knocked on the door of their home to change the previous perpetrator, which has been since 2012, and that they have just been evicted by Mirjana Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59713	Thank you, Mrs. Jovanovic. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 109 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 110 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Milorad Mircic. Here you go, Comrade Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59714	What predominantly prevails is that this is something that, not only enables EU entry, but is something that European standards are, in doing so, the promoter forgot to say that in the EU in that Europe everything is settled according to certain rules. When it comes to the relationship between the bank and the client, there are clear rules. When it comes to the collection of utility services, it's all defined up to tiny details, and we here want to apply the system where foreign banks came in with the intention of getting as much real estate as possible so that they can collect their paid-up loans anyway. We're talking about some standards where agricultural land is literally taken, hijacked for small amounts of credit. Well, we had a recent example, people who were in charge of Swiss francs in banks got into debt slavery, property was taken from them, many were taken property, now there's a compromise solution, the state got involved in it, and the state said the best solution is to sign a contract with banks, so there's going to be bank benefits again. Even, they advise - don't sue the Constitutional Court, because it's a wasteful job. What are those rules? Instead of taking sides with its citizens, regardless of which political or party option they belong, the state is playing here with its citizens, the state says - we are more concerned with the effect of earning from the perpetrators than the rights of citizens. Well, what kind of state is that?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59715	The amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Risticevic to Article 115. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 115 of the amendment was submitted by MP George Komlenski. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger George Komlenski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59716	Thank you, Chairman. I was really forced to respond to this part of the bill by amendment. Namely, I think that if it remains as you suggested, which is that the settlement of claims based on legal maintenance can be carried out up to half of the income of all categories that are subject to this mandatory charge, you will lead to maintenance when it comes to the most protected categories of the population, which are mostly underage children or children at regular schooling, in a minimum number of, full-time persons who belong to the right on the basis of judgments on legal basis, in this way you will prevent them from carrying out their right to a court ruling. For this reason, my amendment was that only for the purpose of protecting minors, their rights, their rights to existence, this does not affect previous legal solutions and that earning those who are obliged to pay support can be seized up to two-thirds of that amount. In fact, it could happen that, as I was saying in the principle debate, while the trial is going on, for which a minor is not guilty and responsible, while it takes a year, two years, three years, as long as these trials in court know to last, accumulate unpaid support, unpaid alimony. If it's two kids, where the court judges 50%, this surplus is back two or three years, no one will ever be able to charge. And I see no reason for any of the executive debtors to be protected from being seized by what needs to be provided to underage children. This directly endangers the rights of the child. This directly violates the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, and I ask you to take this situation seriously once again, because in the practice of our courts, as it is today, we have two types of judgments in matters of maintenance - determined by the percentage of the earnings or any other income or determined in nominal amount. The courts make decisions and establish the obligation in nominal terms in situations where it is more than obvious that the person who is obliged to give support is being manipulated, which is that working with the private is asking for a profit with the one that is reduced and the minimum income is officially reported, and the objective needs of child support are the minimum per child of 12 000 dinars. If it's two kids, it's 24,000 dinars. Does anyone have the right to amnesty to support their child? This really opens up the space for those who do it, not because they can't, but for those who, out of pure spite, spite of their wife mostly, do not pay their commitment to support the underage children. I don't think we have any right, no excuse, that in situations like this we go hand in hand. I've got time from an authorised representative of the group, so you can freely count that time, because I know I've overstepped two minutes... (President: That's what I'm doing, be my guest.) ) Therefore, I really ask you to consider this one more time. This isn't a question of makeup, this isn't a question of anything, this is a question of jeopardizing the rights of the most vulnerable categories. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59717	Thank you, Mr. Komlensky. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Verica Radeta, to Article 115. Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59718	We don't think any execution should endanger the existence of the debtor and his family. Now that you're listening to what we've been hearing from a colleague of the Komlenski, there's certainly an excuse. And what if the trustee has two other children living with him, and then they're left with one third and this third child two thirds? So these are some specific situations, and there's certainly a court that should take care of absolutely the right child, among other things, but we don't think that any execution should exceed one third of the profit. There is no right to endanger, repeat, the existence of the debtor. Let the payment take as long as it takes. We still wanted these problems to be solved systematically, not from case to case, although we had some individual cases for illustration of instructions, and we heard earlier, not now than before, from colleagues that when a family of whom Natasa Jovanovic was talking about was evicted from the apartment, so says counterpart Markovic, then the municipal board of forwarders went and brought them some help, whether any food package, whether the bed linen, I don't know, doesn't matter what. But it's not a solution. We Serbian radicals, our MPs, have prevented emigration, destruction, but we cannot do it, neither you nor anyone else, at every moment, in every place in Serbia where it is being solved and done. So we have to systematically approach problem solving, and not now to brag -- we've, you know, stopped here, we've stopped someone... What's a family that's been evicted from the fact that a community board, whatever, is going to bring in a food package or a dressing room? So, to solve problems systematically, that's what we stand for.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59719	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. The right to replica has George Komlenski.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59720	Thank you, Chairman. I don't think this amendment has yet to be adopted. This reduction to one-third would only further endanger the rights. I really understand that there is a huge concern that a debtor can get into an unfavourable situation, but I really don't agree with everything we hear here in this room, when it comes to dealing with public executioners, according to my obligations, I really don't agree that anyone, even with this kind of thinking, can question something that underage children should live on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59721	Thank you, Mr. Komlensky. Right on the line, The Witch of Radeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59722	This is a law on enforcement and security, this is not a law on the protection of minors. Of course, we don’t mind the maximum protection of children, but the one parents support and the one parents avoid. And you can't say here, you can't let this whole article down to just what my colleague Komlensky said. No, they're talking about various categories of execution, they're talking and they're going to tell my colleagues by the categories that we've intervened with the amendment. We still think - more than one third of the salary must not be taken. It can stand, say, in some exceptional situations, and then the court will be the one to decide. We're going back to court again. Once again, the point is that from the beginning to the end, when it comes to the executive procedure, it has to be before the court, and then the judge will decide, and then the Executive Judge will have the understanding, and then there will be arrangements with the parties, etc. In these public executioners, they are not interested in children, nor adults, nor small or old, they only see their own account, they only check at the bank at any moment how many tens of thousands or thousands of euros have increased their account status and they have absolutely no interest in anything. You can buy them if I don't know what kind of execution they won't look at, whether it's rightful or not. Nothing we're saying is a cartoon. It's all true. This is what Serbia is living with today, and we think Serbia must stop living with public executioners, i.e. public perpetrators in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59723	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. Right on the line, George Komlensky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59724	I'm sorry, I believe that an esteemed colleague will absolutely agree with me that even the judges can't pass the law. Even if we can get the execution back into the courts, the judges can't get past the law. If it's said to be up to one-third, then the judge can't go over one-third when it comes to an executive procedure. And if someone were able to agree and agree, that it's normal when it comes to child support, you'd never get into a situation where they're forced to charge for it. So I think there's only one little depression here that just has to be completely clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59725	Thank you, colleague Komlenski. Right on the line, The Witch of Radeta. Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59726	It can only be here, it's that it could have been, let's say, before we started this debate, that we agreed, that we talked, that we excluded the category of alimony from this and that would have made sense. But, you know, a judge can't pass the law. He can't. If you say you can take away two-thirds of the salary, now I ask myself – if one family, one father or mother, doesn't matter who has to pay child support, has two children, has a total of three children, two children live with him and they support them, and one child, third, doesn't live with him or with her, the other parent, this one has to pay child support, it's not controversial, but is it just that in that case two-thirds of the salary taken on behalf of the alimony? Not every life situation can be put into law, but it can certainly be in some categories, and it needs to be singled out, so that it can be satisfied with both law and justice and justice. We have no difference in thinking, it's obvious, but the essence, if we look at it that way, is that then another amendment should be added that would set out, I say, the category of alimony. Well, now that we're thinking, maybe there's still some of those categories. Old, powerless faces who don't have a pension, which children won't support, so should these people be left to die? A little, a little bit, and we read -- some older person's body was found after 15 days, a month, or I don't know how many. So, there are many of these life situations that have to be solved, but on the other hand, if you put two thirds, then "Electro-distribution" will say, "e, it says in the law, give me two-thirds of the salary, I don't care what you eat. It can't be that simple.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59727	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. The right to replica has George Komlenski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59728	Thank you, Chairman. I am grateful that the SRS will then vote in favour of my amendment in the day of voting, because the amendment states that this applies explicitly to support, nothing else. So it's just for support. I don't think there's really any need for us to discuss this any further. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59729	Thank you, colleague Komlenski. Now straight to the replica, the Verse of Radeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59730	A colleague tried to make fun of this, and this isn't a joke at all. Whether we vote or not, that's definitely our thing and we're going to vote for our proposal to be here in October. It is not, however, that solution, only to support, and yet it is not solved. Here, is there a problem solved, if I repeat, if a man or woman, a parent, has three children, two lives with him, at least three, God forbid, two lives with him, the third doesn't live with him or with her, and then you ask that two-thirds of the salary go to one child, and not for these two children. It's not accurate enough. So, basically we don't mind, but it's not precise enough and it's not just the alimony, I repeat, the only alimony, and it's a child's obligation to support parents. That, too, must be special, but it should be regulated, generally these things, to change, to bring a new one, that's what we've been talking about, we have a proposal and a new family law. A lot of things need to change, where, in fact, in this society, some things, these bad things, these inhuman things would be rooted out, unfortunately, by the laws. It's horrible, I guess, to every normal person that there's a man or woman who doesn't want to pay child support. Normal people, literally, detached from their mouths to give a child. Doesn't it sound crazy to everyone, and it doesn't sound like someone's leaving their old parents, not to look at them, and they don't care if they survive or die and find out from their neighbor that they've died, finds out after 10 days, a month? It's a terrible story, it's a thing and a morale of people, etc., but the law is something else.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59731	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. The amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic to Article 115. Here you go, colleague Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59732	What is the fate of the people who come under the influence of public executioners? Is that what you're thinking? Has it been thought that those who are in developed European countries, where there are similar standards, people have a chance that no matter what their assets are seized, through their earnings and other activities, they will again solve the roof over their heads? There's little chance here. Is it their fault? Just remember that in the beginning of the reform, the 500-euro loan bulldozer of the revolution was tolerable. Now that war goes beyond taking people in. It's not your people's fault, they stayed in the same or similar jobs, but they dropped their standard. What about those who've been raising their loans trying to improve their agriculture? Are they the culprits? Did they know what was waiting for them? Did they know that the state would reduce the price of their products? No, they're not. Did they know that Serbia would increase taxes? They didn't know. They found themselves in something they didn't predict. We now see here that they have a chance that for the second time they can provide their families. I can't, people. I can't, it's creating a problem, it's a social problem. Perhaps to resolve, if you accept the insistence of this second law, to solve housing problems, that every citizen in Serbia can buy an apartment at 500 euros per square metre, some may have a chance, but it should liven up, you should accept the SRS suggestion as realistically as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59733	Thank you, Mr. Mircic. On Article 115 of the amendment, with correction, was filed by MP Alexander Seselj. Here you go, Mr. Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59734	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Well, as you know, we've had a chance to hear that we're in the golden age, the leaders in the region, the praises from all sides of fiscal consolidation, our finances, the surplus in the budget and whatnot. Then we discovered, in fact, that in a legal solution here, the state of Serbia, i.e. The ministry here says that the execution of earnings or wages, income fees, or salary fees can be made in the amount of up to one half of the earnings, earnings, salaries, or up to one quarter if their amount is equal to or less than the minimum earnings established under the law. So here in law we find that there are profits that are less than the minimum earnings provided for by law. Now, if it's an occasional, temporary, I don't know what work I'm doing, but here's our legal solution and what we think after how good it is. What is our main concern is that the public enforcement institute is absolutely not helping the citizens of Serbia. The only ones who are winning, the only ones who have any profit, and the profits are huge, are banks and executioners. So, this isn't about the main thing about how now for utility services, i.e. the communal activity of a relative can now be somebody's debt of 5,000 euros and not take his apartment. There's just no such thing here. The most common basis for taking away an apartment is credit, i.e. debt to the bank. There was nothing to worry about here. The law protects public executioners, their savagery and the interest of banks.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59735	Thank you, Mr. Seselj. On Article 115 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Here you go, Mr. Perry.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59736	So there are two entities in Serbia that cause the biggest problems for the citizens of Serbia, which are certainly banks and perpetrators. Perhaps our reaction, and it comes from the citizens of Serbia, would not have been like this if we hadn't seen everything, including the citizens of Serbia. You don't want to go from being able to changing circumstances, you don't want to start with the fact that the banks charged their free funds through interest and probably saw part of the uncertainty of their collection, i.e. the realization of claims. Some paid for it too, but then some couldn't because of the changed circumstances, what counterpart Mircic was talking about, they couldn't regularly settle their obligations and then the public executioners came on stage. Now, here's an old lady named Mirjana Družetić, who owed in dinar equivalent about 500 euros, 300 had to pay, the perpetrator didn't say – we'll do it now, so he did some act. She was ready to sign that the rest of the debt will be settled in two months, maybe in a month. No, he saw a herd of ten sheep and it was sold and settled. If there were no such cases, maybe our reaction wouldn't have been like this. But here we should draw close to the attitudes, dear colleagues, and probably to you people are giving concrete examples, and you know that's how it is. There's no reason for us to stand up so much here, but this Article 115, which the amendment specifically applies to, is related to Article 258 of the applicable law. There's a limit here when it comes to personal income arrests. We think that where one quarter stands, it can be burdened, one fifth is quite enough.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59737	Thanks, buddy. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59738	When these public executioners and their chambers are advertised, they are constantly inclined to accuse the media, I believe that even now after this debate they will make statements, where we have reason to say that they as such, as indeed an organized mafia, should not exist. They're accusing that, I don't know what sensational writings, inscriptions, and in fact, all these cases of unfortunate Serbian citizens should have been a signal and a sign to you by now, that there's something wrong. It is impossible if they have a law that you praise and claim to be good, so the rule is how they should act, that they break it all and do things like that, and that these are really fragrant examples of people, families in all of Serbia who couldn't do anything to protect their rights. What court, what appeals, what appeals courts, are simply, they are left to themselves and various, there have been some activists, some associations, but above all, the MPs of the SRS and you have read, and you have been able to hear from us, that both Radeta and our other activists went to Surcin, I don't know which other locations, in Zemun, to prevent people from breaking down the house. We have one example, here's another proof. We're all about these examples all the time, because they're real life stories. The families of Muhammad and Aljiša Shaulic from Sremska Mitrovica, they are a seven-member family, have four children and grandchildren and because of some fictitious contract and debt, two apartments have been sold to them by the perpetrators, and others have recently been auctioned. Where's the soul of someone who's supposed to take care of both morals and basic human value towards a family who's lost everything she's done for 40 years?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59739	Thank you. Member of the 117th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Verica Radet. Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59740	Today, through this debate and participation in Mrs Kuburovic's debate, we have presented a series of examples that have happened in life and there are some things where we have pointed to problems, where Mrs Kuburovic has said or has already been resolved in this proposal, or she will be in that price list of hers, etc. But there is no answer – what will happen after all the bahanals that the perpetrators have done to this law? Will any of them answer? Is it gonna be a criminal response? It's less important. Will someone return these people illegally to their homes and apartments? It's all you want. Here, in 2017, in Vrsac, people took credit for the purchase of cars. At some point, they didn't pay a few credit wars. The bank didn't speak to the court or to them personally. The bank came to the address where they were registered. They reported it to their son. Man has no idea what these guys are doing, who these guys are. They came to their son to take, to confiscate, to make a list, to collect that debt, to take the son's stuff. So it wasn't just a list, it was a list. These people tried to interfere, tried to say -- wait, it's not his, come on, we owe that some amount for a part of the car. No, they came, they were sent by a bank clerk, she's gonna pay them what they're doing for the bank. These people will also pay the reward, because it's called a reward for the perpetrators, and the coward is paid to whom they take the apartments and to whom they take the property, and it's a reward.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59741	Thank you. The amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj to Article 117. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59742	Thank you. We had the opportunity to hear that some perpetrators were relieved, that they were deprived of their powers because they were seen misusing their function, i.e. Your powers. It's just a drop in the sea. Do not be fooled that two or three perpetrators have been replaced, or 10 or 15, that this will change the way public perpetrators treat Serbian citizens. They are absolutely ignoring all their human procedural and civil rights in the process of taking away their property. One question arises – if the perpetrator is found to be an abuser, i.e. The abuse of his powers has made him insanely rich and bought both the apartment and the house and what not of the debtors and he is now relieved, but he stayed with that apartment and with that house and with all the money and no one. He can only get a disciplinary sentence. I wouldn't be surprised if such perpetrators had a yellow card maybe. So this is just another one of these arguments against the existence of a public enforcement institution. The Serbian Radical Party is the only political party in Serbia that clearly and loudly advocates the abolition of such an institution, since the practice has shown to us so far, has made it clear to everyone, even to those whose subject is not concerned or interested, they are informed by the force of opportunity of what public perpetrators in Serbia are doing and that abuse and wealth at the expense of the overindebted people has become a rule, not an exception in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59743	Thank you. The amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic to article 118. Here you go, colleague Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59744	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, when it comes to the application of this law, namely adoption or its provisions that should improve the situation in this area, in some provisions it is impossible. We agree. All provisions of the law on enforcement and security which prevent the execution of executive and credible documents are unconstitutional, but Serbian radicals say – we want rights to be protected, above all, by debtors and also by creditors, because they should make a difference, Mrs Kuburovic. It was necessary to make a difference for those categories of citizens who cannot pay, and they owe up to 5,000 euros a certain debt. For that category, Serbian radicals stand up, and that would be the right thing to do, which they can't. What will you do when you have, under this provision, the protection of a multimillionaire, a false heir who bought a million-euro apartment in Manhattan, and won't pay for electricity and other taxes to the state? What are we going to do with old-fashioned singers who won't pay for electricity and make enormously high prices and big money? There is only a difference to make, and then it could be said that our citizens are protected equally and the state takes care of them. You've had hot potatoes left in your hands by a yellow cavalry and therefore it's not easy for you, but make sure that, with the help of your associates and other experts and experts, this is a good law that will protect the Serbian poverty, and it's a large number of Serbian poor women.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59745	Thank you, thank you, Mr. Jojic. (Petar Jojic: I will continue. You can have the amendment and the opportunity again. Member of the 121st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Here you go, Mr. Despotovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59746	Thank you. Mr Marinkovic, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and this member, like many members, has been proposed by the SRS to be deleted with the reason that this is the bill, and this is the position of the SRS. Describing what the paper is making this bill, which the Government and the Resort Ministry have instructed us, the MPs, were our position or opposition, is too much to protect the interest of citizens, not the interest of a certain number of people who have been given enormous legitimacy and the right to work too hard for their own interests, and I am expressing my doubts about the interest and perhaps someone else. It is also my right, as a People's MP, where we are critical of this bill, as well as my colleagues from the SRS parliamentary group. We don't just do it to criticize, we can also praise, but only when something is in the interest of our citizens. That this bill is good and would not be good for colleagues, who make up the congregation majority to comment, but very washed, without the hard words, but with the fact that it is not good and that it should be returned for review. I am sorry, Mrs. Kuburovic, I know that you come from a beautiful part of Serbia, from the southwestern part, not to say from the most beautiful part, dear colleague Miletic may be angry, but of course from where I am from, but that I will not vote in favour of this bill, as well as my colleagues from the SRS, but I promise you that we will vote in favour of a new bill when it comes before us, MPs, and to write to abolish private perpetrators, and that is the SRS proposal itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59747	Thank you. National MP Marijan Rističević submitted to Article 121 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59748	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, he's a long, ugly comrade, a long problem, and here someone mentioned the people as birds in a cage. God gives food to all the birds, but he doesn't throw it into their nest. So, we have to do our best, and the best effort is work, production, and that's why this government, when it insists on production, the processing industry, on higher GDP, on pay raises, makes it more for citizens to disburse, than for us who are going to shed hot tears because of their debts. Long is the problem, the problem is orphaned, but success has 200 fathers. We inherited it, orphans and citizens' debts. They do not increase, they are reduced by production, growth in production and services, it is the best way to reduce citizens' debts and that they have the least impact on wage increases, at least affect citizens' standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59749	Thank you. On Article 126, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59750	It's amazing that this rule was made so that these public executioners, this robbery mob says - we do everything according to the law, the ministry and the law gave us the right to just cost our expenses. Now we have a case of Radisa Antic, a pensioner, with a pension of 22,000 dinars. He owed a man 3,600 dinars for Infostan and paid almost 16 grand. So, with interest, four thousand and then the first stage of the executioner of the 5.444 dinars, and then he gets a new increase in debt, or they inform him that he's being denied another 7.056 dinars. It's the cost of execution, the reward to the executioner for a well done job. So his reward is twice the basic debt of this poor pensioner. Here, so the citizens of Serbia know what that tariff looks like. If the public executioner will personally deliver a settlement to a debtor, it costs 1,078 dinars. It's three times more expensive than this "Bex Post", "Fast mail to Serbia" and not to advertise further. So they have 300 and some dinars to send this laptop from Belgrade to Vranje, and they charge for the handover of one piece of paper. If they mail it, it's 2,600 dinars. If they need to get a document on whether this Peric is at the address, with that number in electricity, that's another 4,200 dinars. Are you all normal then? How can you vote for a law like this? When Arsic could ask the MP yesterday, I ask in a political sense the majority. Don't be angry. It's not offensive that you're in your right mind, as the lady says, abnormal in that sense, but is it normal for you to be able as people, as MPs... Today you will all go to your homes and ask your neighbors; is it normal for you to charge seven thousand rewards for the execution of a debt of three thousand dinars?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59751	Thank you. Member of the 126th Amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59752	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Madam Minister, how do you help poor citizens of the Republic of Serbia who cannot pay the communals and cannot pay the taxes for which they owe public enterprises and other natural or legal persons? From tycoon and robbers who through the privatisation process robbed workers and other citizens of the Republic of Serbia, robbed the state, to review all privatisations in the privatisation process of about 2.280 enterprises, so as to confiscate illegally acquired, robbed property from the state of Serbia and its citizens, and to create a mechanism in the form of a social fund, because it is necessary to assess and sell these properties and funds, finance Serbia's poverty, and it would be protected about two million citizens of the Republic of Serbia. These are your remains and legacy by the yellow authority that was before. We have to be human society. God did not allow people to have to again, some who are poor, take a gun, or commit suicide in some other way because they owe these public enterprises. In addition, only to sell or audit PIK Zlatibor, where damage per state has occurred from a billion and 300 million dinars. Serbia's government could build a highway from Saturday to Prepolje. Besides, Mrs. Kuburovic, you probably didn't determine the number of these perpetrators. I think it's a small number and it's a monopoly, a small number of people. There's a lot of lawyers here who can get jobs, and that's how they get some existence, not letting these people get that rich. These data presented by the People's MP, Verica Radeta, are really worrying, and they warn that it really needs to be kept in mind so that it doesn't happen, but Serbian radicals suggest that this law be withdrawn and a new law be passed.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59753	Thank you. You've accepted the amendment. As member of the 127th amendment, Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević is on the floor. Does anyone want a word? On Article 129 of the amendment is the afternoon MP Tomislav Ljubenović. Does anyone want a word? The amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic to Article 129. The amendment was submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic to Article 129. The word has the People's MP Ruzica Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59754	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr Marinkovic, in this article are added a new chapter 2 and 3 which brings back a decision from the 2011 Implementation and Security Act to inform the custody authorities in the event that the emigration covers minors by a public executive and we have asked that this member be deleted, because we believe that such a change in enforcement is inhumane because they are underage children and every child must have a minimum level of standard of living that enjoys both parent and maintenance. Ladies and gentlemen, our position is to abolish the institution of the perpetrators, and this is what our bill, which we have collected over 100,000 signatures of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who are bitter about the work of public executioners, their pride, their passion, that we will regulate, and that is the part relating to the eviction where we believe that emigration cannot be implemented regardless of the debt, that every member of the family has to be provided with ten squares. So we're going to regulate a protected area of ten square meters per member of the household that can't possibly be the subject of execution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59755	Thank you, colleague Nikolic. The amendment was submitted to Article 132 by MP Sreto Peric. Here's your colleague, Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59756	Mrs. Kuburovic, free of tariff reduction in 2016, the ethical code of public enforcement of 2016 when it did not produce any results. However, you promise that the tariff will be reduced now, after this law has been passed, but I have some payments here. I can show you that. Debt was 294,925 dinars, court costs 20,233 dinars. So the court has secured the possibility of execution. I've come to a solution that something will happen. Costs of execution – public executioner 70,800 dinars. That's what prof. Jokic calculated, either 25%. Now, since there has been a limit – the cost of municipal services cannot be sold to housing units, or immovable property if it does not exceed 5,000 euros. The award for executioners based on a 5,000-euro debt per utility would be 147,500 dinars. They're huge numbers. These are huge amounts. There's another situation. If the public executioner is wrong, he has neither material nor criminal responsibility. There's something, there's a disciplinary action against him and he's being punished. What does that mean? Could this be returned to his previous condition after the damage he had previously owed? Of course he can't. Any action taken by a public contractor requires advance advances and it is not small at all. He has information that very often they put together proposals for the execution of trustees. These are all reasons that indicate that you need to think seriously, and the end of the debate on amendments is nearing and that this proposal is being withdrawn. We will offer you in October an incomparably better proposal than yours and finally make that breakup with the previous regime.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59757	Thank you, colleague Peric. Member of the 133rd Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Here you go, Mrs. Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59758	We have proposed erasing this article because the existing solution is fairer and more legally justified, but of course we did not expect the amendment to be accepted. While we are discussing this bill, and while you, Mrs. Kuburovic, are trying to defend their highnesses, the perpetrators, it has been happening to us, the newspaper has been writing for two days, that University Professor Dr. Slobodan Milivojevic has been expelled from his apartment. Why? Because of the prevention between, imagine, notaries and perpetrators, two of the greatest evils. The executor came to move him out and moved him out. Actually, the man sold the apartment. The woman didn't pay the purchase price, and she never came, and she never tried to get into that apartment, but she had a contract with the notaries, and she betrayed it. It's obviously a mob circle. They're not random names. Then someone at the notary showed up to say that he couldn't as a tenant of the apartment, because that woman, the alleged buyer, betrayed that apartment, and he never even tried to get in, and he doesn't need that apartment in that sense to live there, and then the notary summed up his statement that he tried to get into the apartment without checking it out, and what would he do when he's dealing with the executioner, and together they're dealing with the bank. It's just uncanny that such a thing can happen to a man, and here it is. Yesterday, newspapers announced he was evicted from his apartment due to a fraud contract. He didn't have time for court. They're referring him to court one day, and where he'll live in the meantime, who knows. So let's get rid of the notary, and for the start of the executioner.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59759	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted the amendment to Article 133. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59760	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have missed before to say in the defence of the state that in recent years the state has not determined the purchase prices of agricultural products, since the 1990s, formed the market and that these prices are nothing less than the period 2005-2010. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59761	Thank you, colleague Rističević. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 136th amendment. Here you go, Mr. Saviæ.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59762	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the collection of debts was a problem for every government and every individual forever. To this end, various methods have been used and there is no ideal solution here, because there is one saying – no one hates you as your debtor. So this problem has been present for centuries and millenniums. This power, unfortunately, has found the worst possible way, the worst possible solution of all, and we said that none is ideal, that it solves the problem. The state as a state should first of all play a social role. The state should protect its citizen, provide him with both legal and social security, and through this enforcement and security system, through the enforcement system, it has turned into its opposite. Now, I've been informed that a woman in the Book has been seized by executioners by a pig from a freezer. I was trying to see if it was really like that and it was really like that. You see how far it's gone in these things, and I guess the goal of the state is to provide security to all citizens and in every way possible try to make it possible for the debtor to make it easier for him to succeed in his debt to sort out somehow, to regulate. It's no one's interest to totally destroy the debtor now, then we've only got one more social case. However, this way of billing debts, better to say exorcising debts, did not bring good to anyone, neither to the debtor, nor to the trustee, nor to God, nor to the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59763	Thank you, fellow Saviæ. National MP Nedjo Jovanovic submitted to the 136th amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Gjorge Komlenski to article 138. The amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj to Article 138. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Comrade Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59764	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Well, here we have already found that there is one great delusion in our public, since the amendments to the law have been interpreted so that now for debts that are up to 5,000 euros it is impossible to confiscate and kidnap someone's apartment. The bad message has been conveyed to the public, of course, since this solution applies only to municipal and related activities. So, the claims that arise from that. Because it's the least, and most of all it is, you've heard countless examples here just today, when the apartment is being taken, i.e. it is taken from the debtors, if the trustee of the bank and the public executioner, of course, sees his own personal property interest to be sold under the market price of one person after the sale of the person at the right market price and to share the profits with the executioner. It's a practice. Since if the social character of the law is already being discussed here, in order not to have illusions and nonsense as public perpetrators are humanitarian workers, it should be ensured by law that anyone who comes to collect the claim from the living space must be guaranteed a minimum of 10 square metres of living space per family member, and that may be little, perhaps 12 and 15. It's simply because of the boast and rampage of public executioners to lose their roof over their heads. This is the main message and it will be contained in the legislative proposal, which will be submitted by the SNS for the fall session of the National Assembly, until we hand over the citizens' signatures, which will be more than 100,000, which support the proposal and I sincerely hope that we will talk about it again.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59765	Thank you, Mr. Seselj. The 138th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milena Bicanin, Natasa Mihajlović Vacic, Slavica Zivkovic and Jasmina Karanac. The word is Milena Bycanin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59766	I'm just going to comment on one of my colleagues' presentations a half hour ago, since then the chairman of his known cause did not give me that opportunity. We asked if as a Social Democratic Party, we gave up the principle of solidarity, since I talked about it. Of course not. Social-democratic value isn't just a program definition, it's a measure of the value of everything a man creates as a social being, it's a measure of human dignity and dignity. Therefore, for me it will be the only value I will stand for under a mandatory condition that there is freedom of equality and justice, as solidarity cannot be without these preconditions. It can only be a place to create a new injustice. We have submitted an amendment regarding the fact that we are really in the position that no one should be left without the only home for the reason of the law that we are talking about today. It is absolutely our commitment, and we will advocate for it, of course, hoping that this law will have a very short deadline, hoping that after all the discussions that we have heard, which were really very high-quality because they were engaged in real life, we will draw attention to our president of the state who as a lawyer can use his legal right that if the National Assembly adopts this law, that he does not sign it. I think in that sense we would all really be very, very socially just. This is no time for an eye, a tooth for a tooth, this is the 21st century, and I hope that even if this law with such absolutely inhumane provisions had been passed, I don't think it would slow our progress towards the EU and to comply with the obligations of Chapters 23 and 24. Many of my colleagues mentioned people by their names today. I'm not going to mention anyone by name and last name, I'm fighting along with all of you and my colleagues from my MP group, for the one one, whom no one by name has mentioned, who after years of suffering, having no job, got a job, got hope, took credit to make his only, first home, and then for some completely fatal reason happened to him. He's lost his ability to serve his credit claims on time, and now that man needs to lose his home. Also, when we talk about this, I wonder if it's justice and I wonder where justice is. I wonder where justice is when we talk about a man who has such a destiny, who also has children, I wonder about the rights of his children to life, work and a dignified life, their rights and their opportunities in life. So I wonder if we're creating an evenness space for everyone for the same initial chance? I wonder about those families that live much more in a single household, who may be left without one single home, and then we'll get new homeless, because we have a category of hidden homeless people and they're very unhappy and we talk very often. So, I am really still standing at the point of view and I repeat once again, in this country no one for any known reason should remain without a single home, and of course I am absolutely at the point of view that all claimants of their rights must also be compensated, the state must have a mechanism, people make decisions and I believe that with one good thinking, with one social responsibility, such decisions can be made very quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59767	Thank you. National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to Article 138 of the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59768	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Ministers with Associates, I have tabled an amendment to Article 138(4). Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on enforcement and security. I asked this amendment to replace the public executioner with the words of the court. The courts are the only competent place to issue a certificate of justice. Your persistent refusal of our amendments will not prevent us from considering laws and writing amendments where we believe that the text of the law can be corrected. This is an important law that you are and as far as every citizen of the Republic of Serbia is concerned, and for this reason you should have a little more hearing about the opposition parties' objections, because all of us potential executioners' victims thus fall under the consequences of the lack of this law. I believe you, like other citizens, feel the shortcomings of this law when you meet him at work. It's your responsibility as people who exercise power even greater, but based on all this, I didn't notice that you were aware of those facts. It is not enough to rewrite the law of EU countries, to adopt it in parliament, and to feel that the job is done. So I urge members of the government to seriously deal with these objections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59769	Thank you. The amendment was submitted by MP Maja Gojkovic to Article 138. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59770	Thank you. I have already talked a lot about the proposal, i.e. the amendment to Article 138 of position 5 and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the competent ministry did not accept my arguments. I think there has also been a lack of understanding of the essence of what is written in the amendment, which is that that limit of 5,000 euros that you have indicated yourself in the law, means it refers to natural persons and will not be taken away from the only property that the debtor owns if it is executed because of a credible ID, which refers to municipal debts. My proposal is essentially, if it is not understood for whoever wrote the law, that up to 5,000 euros for all debts is the limit not to take away the only property the debtor owns. The fact that we're just here protecting debtors, which isn't true, is where we're talking about the failures of this law at all. I believe that we have convinced you quite a lot that out of the 130 amendments, you have seen that not only the MPs of the opposition but most MPs who support the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia say that we must soon get a new bill that would have to accept all these anomalies and be one quality law, not something that we are correcting, which the DS adopted in 2011. Indeed, regardless of all these amendments, when we adopt all this, we will again get one monster law, because in practice it has shown that it is very bad and that it is almost inconclusive or impregnable to the damage of both debtors and creditors. When I tell the creditors, you know that lawmakers living in Belgrade, and MPs are SNS, and they have tabled several amendments concerning the problem that the city of Belgrade has 400,000 executive procedures, that the jurisdiction of the court goes beyond any jurisdiction of the perpetrators. A special problem for the city of Belgrade is that 25% is expected to be paid to the perpetrator, before he meets in general, to carry out some credible correction, which would mean in the account, so that the city of Belgrade, and now I'm talking about the trustee, means we don't protect the debtors with every speech, they have to pay more than 5.5m euros. The city of Belgrade doesn't have that money. That would mean that every perpetrator, we've talked a lot here, there's got to be something to do and it has to be changed, about their costs, because they're doing the same job that judges used to do, and the exact same thing, they don't have any new jobs that the courts haven't done. So the town of Belgrade would have to single out 73,000 euros per enforcer, and that is absolutely impossible with this budget of the city of Belgrade. So the city of Belgrade will be forced if within eight days it does not find this money to forgive all these debts by force. So again, we can't say that the law is good, because you say – the debt has to be paid, and then we tie our hands to the city of Belgrade, because there's not enough funds and they just can't collect that debt. So the claim will remain unpaid despite the additional costs of executive creditors. They are given 73,000 euros in advance, regardless of whether the claim will be paid or not. That's why, I say, we should essentially devote ourselves to the amendments. Not all of them are for rejection. I mean, I'm not vain as an MP, there's a lot that's been thrown away in my career. It will prove not good that you rejected this amendment of mine, that you did not accept my amendment, because 5,000 euros for municipal costs is quite fine and thank you for thinking of this social element, this social moment of debt and debt. But I don't see why 5,000 euros as someone's debt is making a problem to exclude the seizure of real estate, the only real estate that the debtor has, and why would it be too big a step for the state or for the ministry or for the government to accept such an amendment? I will certainly vote for this proposal, because it is a real step forward, but I am convinced that we will soon have a new draft law on enforcement and security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59771	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. The amendment was submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic to Article 139. Here you go, colleague Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59772	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when it comes to objecting to a solution to enforcement in the procedures for the collection of claims from municipal and related activities, it has been amended to file a complaint procedure by providing that the complaint is submitted through the public executioner, who has reached that solution. So, in principle, cadiya's suing you, cadiya's judging you. We, at the end of this debate, point out once again to our position, which is that the SRS advocates the abolition of public enforcement, that if there is a need for enforcement, that execution must be in the hands of the state, means that execution is returned to the courts in order for that exercise to be just and equally safeguarding rights, both creditors and debtors. Public executioners work exclusively in their own interest and they are the greatest evil that exists in our country, in our legal system. They charge citizens imaginary and illegal costs, with interest on basic debt accounting at very high rates, even up to 12%. So we urge you once again to withdraw this law from the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59773	The amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Risticevic to Article 139. The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to the 140th Amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59774	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Many times today we could hear different attitudes about situations where debtors remain without their apartments, i.e. No real estates to live in, housing units. What's unusual is that it all happens under the awake eye of the state and the state here is an accomplice to making homeless people out of people who aren't able to serve their debt on time. Very often they are much less obliged than the value of this property that is being taken. It's amazing that no one sees the problem, and then we're comforting ourselves here because for communal and related activities, when there are debts, we're going to be liberal. So, first of all, the problem will not be solved, because these claims are not as much for municipal activities as they are for banks and other creditors, and public executioners are eager to wait, this is what the practice has shown, that apartments are sold at as little cost as possible to earn, and at all the fees and all the fees they have, they still come into the situation to be owners of these properties. Let's look at the Kragujevac example. So Belgrade's apartment, which was seized, was then sold at auction for a much lower price than the market price, and as a buyer, a son appears from the vice president of the Kragujevac Chamber of Executives. If it's not corruption, I really don't know what it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59775	Thank you, Mr. Seselj. National MP Milorad Mircic submitted to the 141st amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Orlic to Article 143. The amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Risticevic to Article 145. The amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric to Article 146. Here you go, colleague Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59776	In the previous days, an authorised promoter on behalf of the government spoke here about flaws and shortcomings when they were court perpetrators, and that's quite true. Instead of addressing these shortcomings, it has joined the introduction of a completely new institution that has in no way produced good results and cannot be expected in the future. This is mainly about some cosmetic changes and what has been pointed out is that these tariffs will be reduced, on the one hand, and that public executioners, their deputies, assistants, persons employed by them cannot buy items that have been sold in the executive procedure, and that has been so far. Do you know, if you want me to give you proof that until now, employees of public executioners have bought certain immovableities, to be precise, immovable, not just apartments, not in their own name, as I said public enforcement agencies are opening up, not in their own name, but in the name of their close relatives, friends, godfathers and others? It doesn't even matter now whose name it is, but it's something that exists in practice and it's not good. I think it's high time this law was withdrawn and joined by a new law, that the matter of the execution of judicial verdicts or other executive authentic acts was entrusted exclusively to the judicial perpetrators.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59777	Thank you, Mr. Perry. On Article 147, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go, Mrs. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59778	The largest number of these enforcement solutions is about the so-called the authentic documentation they receive from utility companies, Elektro-distributions and others who hire them to collect debts for their account. How unverified this documentation can be, it is an example of over 8,000 households in southern Serbia. Namely, all of them received one-off bills for alleged power theft by the Elektroprivreda of Serbia. Many of them later proved in court proceedings that they did not steal the electricity, but that because of the incorrect numbers and situations that occurred to them individually, everyone could not know, and they paid neatly. It is even a frantic example of a family who regularly pays every bill from month to month for electricity consumption from 2003 to 2016, and then suddenly says Serbia's Electrodistribution - yeah, you spent, or stole that electricity and came to pay more than 500,000 dinars. Why are we talking about this all day, and, look, this is my last amendment to this law of law? Because you need to understand that all of what we're saying, we're talking on behalf of Serbian citizens and that no statistics, and when you say, as a minister, it's 3,600 and some real estate, so you said -- it's not just all houses and apartments, there's fields and bars, there's only 1% of the total number of executions. No statistics can compensate for such tragedies and family and their children, and therefore you need to withdraw this law from the procedure. But since you will not and you will vote as much tomorrow, be sure that with even more support, and by now we have more than 100,000 signatures of citizens, we will enter the procedure, or we will submit a proposal, and we will see how it will go, for a new law that will save the citizens, and only now can the Serbian Radical Party do so.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59779	Thank you. Member of the 148th Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Here you go, Mr. Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59780	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are witnessing that the Serbian Progressive Party is as much trying to make a distinction between the SNS regime and the DS regime that was in Serbia by 2012. We have seen that this is not exactly what they say, and one indicator of this case, therefore, the SNS did not support the original 2011 Implementation and Security Act, it did not vote for the law, it was against it, and then it almost adopted the 2015 solution, and here from 2019, it defends the law, as if it were one of the major civilization flows. If we were able to identify the problem in the work of public executioners, and we could from a huge practice, a huge number of examples, you could hear today from my colleagues from the SRS on dozens of these cases, when apparently public executioners became abnormally rich on a claim they had nothing to do with. We haven't solved that problem, we're trying some makeup here in this bill, like an electronic board or a debt for municipal claims, to mask now, to pretend like there's no real problem. So, first of all, when we speak here in the Assembly, we have one situation to banalize every single one of our exhibitions. For example, when we discussed last week that without a tender, the work of building the Moravia Corridor was given, i.e. The Preljina-Pojate highway, the American firm Bechtel, so the job without any tender is being awarded to the American firm, which will prove to be more expensive even for some 300m euros than it may have been offers from China, Azerbaijan and the rest of the world, so the states that also have successful businesses that build highways, do not know that only Americans, we answer as counterargument - so you're against the highway. Now, today when it comes to public executioners, when we are against haughtiness, savagery, that the public executioner is making the citizens of Serbia homeless, that he is abnormally rich in another's accident, that he is making the most of the law without respecting any rights of the debtor, then we are accusing ourselves of replacing thesis and we are then against paying the debts. Well, we're not against paying debts, we're against a third party achieving extraprofits, abnormal property benefits on the burden of the overindebted person. You know, as a rule, no one's in debt out of obstetrics. There are such exceptions, of course, but simply people are in debt because of different needs. Life is, of course, unpredictable. In five, six, seven years, maybe someone loses their job, maybe the company fails, maybe something happens that has nothing to do with a specific debtor, which is why he loses his job, then he's no longer able to service his debt in such a way. It's not an automatic occasion for that face to be taken away from the roof over his head. Also, one question where we see this continuity between DS and SNS authorities is this increasingly and more calling on the European Commission's Report on items from the negotiating framework of action plans and negotiating chapters. In particular, Chapter 23 about him is being heard more and more frequently on various issues regarding our judiciary, not only are we going to change the choice of judges now up, but we now have a commendation in the European Commission's report that we have done all this well, and now it is a counter argument. So, if we say that public executioners are robbing Serbian citizens, and the contrary argument is in the European Commission they commended it. The same thing was done by the Democrats, and we saw where it led them. So, first of all, a political break-up is needed, Europe has no alternative. It's a policy of doom. Argument one more. It is said that the courts are ineffective and the courts have proved unable to exercise the jurisdiction of the court to exercise judicial authority and in all its forms. And now, instead of the government trying to enable the courts to have an ambience and create conditions for them to carry out their responsibilities in the best possible way, as well as to participate in the execution of obligations, of course not for free, but for reasonable prices, i.e. To the reasonable fees on that, we gave it to a private person because the courts are incompetent. Public contractors are private persons, privates who charge debts and are abnormally rich on every claim. Don't kid yourself. They're private persons with public authority. It goes through a line of less resistance, so like the Democrats, the advances go through a line of less resistance, rather than taking care of the situation in the judiciary. There are several suggestions. Here, now I'll just tell you two. So, first of all, to hire more judicial perpetrators, simply to make them more, to split the deal to make them work more. That, as a stimulant for their work, they are determined at every successful execution, at reasonable prices, to have a percentage of that, a reward on the salary. The courts wouldn't be inefficient, it wouldn't be like now in our state administration where salaries with a high school of up to 30,000 dinars are often about 25,000 or 26,000 dinars, and then we're pretending here, so like they don't do anything, they sit in offices all day long, they're inefficient, they're doing nothing. Don't take care of their incomes absolutely. So, instead of handling this situation, we now have the rampage of public executioners. Mrs. Kuburovic says, as well as a good one, that for the past six months, public enforcement officials have only paid a billion dinars in Serbia's budget on the name of the value added tax alone. Here's what logic tells us, then, that their turnover was five billion dinars, since the value added tax is 20% and four billion dinars is their profit, which would mean that in six months from those 217 perpetrators as many as there are in Serbia, each has earned more than 156,000 euros, in just six months. That now we take it all as normal, that this is all reasonable, that no one has been expelled and deceived, that no one has been expelled from the apartment, that his assets have not been seized because of the small debts, etc., this could all be the income of the Serbian state. The state of Serbia has consciously waived its income from execution. She gave them private faces, gave them protection, because the perpetrators became sacred cows. They always go with the police battalion to those executions. Everything that happens to them and their work is under the watchful eye of the state. No one's responding to that. So the problems haven't been solved. This has happened, the practice has shown us that the most cost is paid by those who are least obliged, for 2,000 euros, for 4,000 euros, are left without an apartment, and those who owe the most, as you said, Mrs Kuburovic, where the accounts for "Infostane" and the debts of more than a million dinars, they continue to live in luxury properties, still earn, no one touches them still due, as well as large companies in Serbia. Those who are the most obliged, who have maximum abuse of the law, continue to owe, and those who do not have the objective circumstances, are the most in Serbia, the money to serve their debt, they remain without a roof over their heads. The question is, of course, what happens if the debt is greater than the value of the property. Nothing would surprise me if the number of healthy organs in the debtor's body were recorded then, that the public executioner would be charged out of it tomorrow. I may be exaggerating right now, but I'm just saying that just this boast, this behavior that's all under the watchful eye of the state is tolerated and the citizens of Serbia suffer. So one third person next to the trustee and the debtor is now also a party to this bond relationship where it extracts the maximum profit, that is, extra profit and all on the burden of the debtor. That condition is abnormal and needs to be changed as soon as possible. So, all that is related, you've heard more than once today about these cases, not any demagogy, these are examples that have happened in Serbia in the last few years, scandalous and no one is responding. No one reacts to that because the perpetrators obviously have protection, they can do whatever they want. Instead of making an effective judiciary, to make an effective court, we took away one jurisdiction. So tomorrow we can also say the National Assembly is expensive and inefficient, so let's move the legislative function to some smaller body, maybe two, three people, so let's make them laws, or we don't need it, let's make the government propose and pass the laws, that would be more cellular, that would be more efficient, that would be faster and cheaper. That's the logic that went with it when a public enforcement institution appeared in Serbia. That's the logic. Then of course we have these situations, because no one protects the damaged debtors. It's not just interests and trustees are citizens, it's okay, but they're not taking that extra profit, they're taking the third person. It brutally violates human dignity, the dignity of the debtors. His human rights are brutally violated, his right to be a citizen is taken away, because his procedural human and civil rights are not taken into account. And no debt is too large to be charged from a debtor's personality. Human rights are part of his personality. No one can be deprived of their right to a home because it is either a duty or a right to human dignity, and the perpetrators do so without any control. I expect that we should talk about it again very quickly, as I have already said several times. The Serbian Radical Party is the only political party in Serbia that clearly advocates the abolition of the public enforcement institution, to investigate how they acted, how they exercised their powers given to them by the state, to investigate who had become rich, who had damaged whom, how these apartments were bought afterwards at auctions, i.e. at set auctions. Well, let's see, the execution process goes back to court, make it possible for the courts to do that job, to stimulate the court's perpetrators. Then you'll have a more effective judiciary. Keep in mind that the state by nature of things is less efficient than private persons, but does not mean that then a private person can perform state actions, which is obviously the job of the state. That's not normal. The example is a lot, we can talk about this subject for seven days and we're still not going to tell you all about it. This is where abuse became a rule, not an exception. Abuse of the powers given by the State to public perpetrators. A lot of people are damaged. The greatest anger among Serbian citizens is anger against public executioners, not because someone is not willing to pay what is due, but because they will not be robbed under the awake eye of the state. That's the point. Keep in mind, i.e. The SNS should bear in mind that by voting for such laws, to support the perpetrators and their performance and their work, it takes responsibility for all that they will do in the future and for all the damages and all the disastrous consequences that public perpetrators' actions will do to Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59781	Thank you, Mr. Seselj. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted the amendment to Article 151. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted the amendment to Article 157. National MP Nedjo Jovanovic submitted to the 160th amendment. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted the amendment to Article 163. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 164 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Petrovic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 166 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Orlic. The amendment was submitted to Article 167 by the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I would like the representative of the motion to make a statement on the amendment. Mrs. Kuburovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59782	Amendment accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59783	Thank you, Mrs. Kuburovic. I understand the amendment has been accepted. The amendment was submitted by MP Petar Petrovic to Article 168. The government and the Justice Committee, the state administration and local self-government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Risticevic to Article 169. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 170 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Verica Radet. Does anyone want a word? (De. ) The word has a People's Messenger, the Prophet of Rade. Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59784	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS will continue during the summer of the signing campaign along with our petition to abolish public executioners, and we will share a special edition of "The Great Serbia", where the proposal to make the law that we are about to propose look like. So, our intention is to get the executioner's jobs back into the jurisdiction of the courts. We regret that, after so many examples and such serious debates, we have failed to convince the Minister of Justice to withdraw this bill and to really consider and that all of you colleagues are seriously considering a new law but a new law that will be essentially new, and will be essentially new when jurisdiction is changed, that is, when courts become competent to execute and provide security. What is good in this bill is that it will apply from 1 January 2020, and then it means, God of Health, that we will see each other on our proposal in October. We don't believe that we can ignore that number of signatures, how much we're going to contribute to that bill that's over, we just have a little bit more to take care of, finalize. We'll also use something we heard here today from opposition colleagues and the minister and everything we see in the meantime, we'll find out on the ground. So, the SRS, in October, God's health, comes out, respected citizens, with a proposal for the execution of the perpetrators and to return to the courts of you, folks, we invite you to go on all our committees, to sign the petition, to make us as many as possible. I guess that'll make it easier for us to convince the minister and the congregation majority. It would be best if Alexander Vukic used his constitutional right not to sign this proposal, to wait for that proposal, and then to discuss it and sign it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59785	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. The People's Messenger George Komlensky has the word. Here you go, colleague Komlenski.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59786	Thank you, Chairman. I am well-known for knowing that sometimes I go from rebellion to boredom, but I do have a duty, and I think all respected colleagues of this House have an obligation to think seriously again and to accept the amendment that I have submitted to Article 115, asking that the legal solution so far be maintained and that, when it comes to supporting and carrying out the alimony, the legal solution so far can be applied to two-thirds of the remuneration of the persons in debt. This, distinguished colleagues, I do not expect you to support this and vote in the voting day, you are expected by all those underage children who are deprived of the love and attention of one of their parents, because the other parent is absolutely irresponsible, if the one who is irresponsible has denied their love, care and attention, we do not have the right to prevent them from living politely in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59787	Thank you, Mr. Komlensky. The word is Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59788	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Just for a moment, here is the end of this debate in detail on the draft law amending and supplementing the law on enforcement and security, and this represents the end of the debate on this bill. First of all, I want to thank you, Mrs Kuburovic for the active participation in this session, and I want to thank all the MPs who participated in the debate, I certainly believe that the debate was very important and very constructive, and I think that we have once again shown that parliamentary dialogue exists, that MPs and MPs of the opposition with the government representative can absolutely discuss everything. There's something else I want to say. While the Serbian government and Aleksandar Vukic are fighting for decent and better Serbia, for jobs, for better business, for investment, there are those tiny souls, unfortunately, in this country that tweet, because they don't know what to do. Then you can see what Serbian President Alexander Vukic's profile says -- this is a very important day for us, for Serbia, for Smederevo, for the workers who work here, because the Chinese have confirmed this new investment that they want to stay here, that they want to invest and believe in the success of the hardware. Of course, it's about the "Smederevo" Ironworks. So, you have various fake profiles of the Alliance for Serbia, which cannot say their name and name, which tweet the most terrifying things: "How long would it be? How much of a dork? “ Not to mention the children of Alexander Vukic, Daniel, and Milic. I don't even want to read it from this Twitter. The whole decent Serbia is shrunk. I felt the need to condemn such insults and call on the authorities from this place to react. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59789	Thank you, Mrs. Žarić Kovacevic. I would like to join you in thanking Minister Nelli Koburovic for his co-operation before we conclude a review of the bill in particular. After we have conducted a review of the Bill's proposal in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. I would also like to inform you and remind you that, in accordance with Article 205 at 1600 hours, we are starting with parliamentary issues being raised to the government in the presence of, of course, members of the government, as the procedure and order requires, every last Thursday of the month. Thank you. We see them at 4:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59790	Dear People's MPs, we approach the question of MPs in time from 1600 to 19.00 hours, according to article 205. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The rules of asking questions you know. Accordingly, I ask the MPs to file applications to ask questions. At the same time, I remind you that the order for asking parliamentary questions will be determined according to the current practice of the work of the National Assembly, first of all, by Members of Parliament who do not belong to any parliamentary group, and then by MPs from the smallest to the largest parliamentary group. We're moving on to asking MPs questions. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59791	Ladies and gentlemen, honored present, respected chairman and respected members of the government, my first question concerns the government's obligation to ensure the application of constitutional principles and legal provisions relating to the equality of all churches and religious communities. It is known that since 2007, there has been a threat to the unity of the Islamic community, i.e. the rights of members of the Islamic community to have a unique, traditional Islamic community, which would be protected in accordance with legal provisions just as the protection of the SPC and other churches, or religious communities, is provided. Unfortunately, the regime at the time, Tadic-Kostunica, abused the state apparatus and endangered the Islamic community, violating very open and constitutional and legal provisions. Although we are witnessing that there has been some change in relations with the Islamic community by this government, this government is obliged, however, that the consequences caused by the previous authorities are being resolved. My second question also concerns another constitutional and legal law guaranteed to national communities, past the majority people, in this case it is the right to use Bosnian language for the Bosniak national community, because we are witnessing these days that we have rather aggressive views from certain academic and other circles that challenge this right to members of the Bosniak national community. It is known that the Constitution and the law are very clear on this matter. It is known that the government is actually on the side of applying the Constitution and the law. However, I am here to convey concerns from members of the Bosniak national community, given this atmosphere I am talking about, and therefore I need the government's response, i.e. a clear view of the government that members of the Bosniak national community would not be upset. My third question concerns the diaspora, i.e. the legal obligation to also members of the Bosniak diaspora, which is very numerous, according to our data over a million members of the Bosniak diaspora, are also treated as members of the diaspora of the majority people by law and by the Diaspora Authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59792	The President of the Government has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59793	Good afternoon. I just want to confirm once again, and really only briefly, that the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia have the most possible standards for respecting the rights and freedoms of national minorities and the Government of the Republic of Serbia will continue to operate in accordance with all the laws dealing with this area, notably the Law on National Councils of Minorities, the Law on the Protection of Rights and Freedom of National Minorities, the Law on Official Use of Language and Letters, the parent books, self-government and so on. Certainly, representatives of the Bosniak national community have no reason to be upset. If there's some particular thing they're upset about, and we need to do something, like you said, we'll talk. There's going to be a Minister of State and Local Self-Government, the Office of Human and Minority Rights, so we're going to do it in accordance with all these laws, and if there's any additional things we need to do, we're going to do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59794	Thank you. The word is Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59795	Therefore, regarding language, the most concrete thing is the decision-making, i.e. the position of the RTS Public Service Administration, which has been negatively declared on the matter of the Bosniak National Council's request to provide a certain space, a time-space on that television for the Bosniak national community and in terms of language, but also in terms of presenting Bosniak national culture with a very problematic and unacceptable explanation that there is some Committee on Standardisation of the Serbian language, which is, in fact, the view that it is not a language and that there is no basis for this right to be applied. So this sends a message that some committee, by me, is informal, older than the law, older than the Constitution, and we've actually had to read it in the media these days. So that's what, let's say, is a concrete procedure, and by all means public representation of those views is something that actually worries. What's our request, but also our support to this government, is not to let any parallel groups, parallel power structures, parallel centres that are trying to impose themselves as some kind of para-state, actually be the ones to give orders to official bodies and institutions, in this case the Public Service, which as a media house represents a service to all citizens. So that's about the language itself. I would ask you to plead on the rights of the Islamic community to be protected. So that's one very big question. I know, and I'm aware that this isn't something this government has produced, and I know it's a hot potato left to this government, but serious government and serious government have to face the consequences of what the previous authorities have done. So, you are now in a position as the general public of Serbia to monitor what is happening in Montenegro regarding the assets of the SPC. Did you see the kind of emotion that triggers, how sensitive that is, how difficult that is? I know you can say it's an internal issue of the Islamic community, we can't interfere. We do not ask that the government interfere within the internal affairs of the Islamic community, but we ask that the government ensure a relationship with the Islamic community as with other church communities, and first of all, as with the SPC. The law clearly states that the government is obliged to provide, to protect the community of every legal, especially traditional church and religious community if its right is compromised, or any legal provision regarding that right.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59796	Thank you. The President of the Government has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59797	Just for a little while, again. As for RTS, the government of the Republic of Serbia cannot affect the editorial policy of RTS, nor the answers they send you. The Serbian Radio Television, of course, must respect the laws of the Republic of Serbia. If at any point you think RTS doesn't respect the laws, doesn't understand them enough or needs to be explained, again I'm offering all the services of the Ministry of State and local self-government, the Office of Human and Minority Rights, to sit together with RTS to see what's in the middle. But we cannot have direct influence on RTS, nor do we want to have, as a government in a democratic country. As for the right of the Islamic community to be protected, again, I am proud as Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia to do all that the Republic of Serbia does, what society, how equal rights it provides, how open it is to diversity, religious, ethnic, etc. So again, count on us being completely open to dialogue, to understand the problem, not to interfere, but to help as much as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59798	Thank you. Does he want to make a comment? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59799	I also expected the vice-presidents of the government, Dacic and the foreign minister to declare themselves on the diaspora administration, because it is indeed a million-dollar number of Bosniaks, from Turkey to Western Europe, from Australia to Canada. So they're in significant numbers and citizens of this country, they're interested in diaspora programmes related to them. Therefore, I would ask that the Diaspora Administration, as well as the projects envisaged for the diaspora, be made available and members of the Bosniak diaspora. There's a will for that. We are like the Messengers of the people and their messengers of the people. That is, if it may not be the most important, but in the past elections, I have received a very large number of votes in the diaspora, so they have further obliged me to represent their interests. I don't think that question is peripheral, but it's very important, because what I'm trying to experience in the country is that it's actually a mechanism, a system that has to do its best to allow all citizens of this country, regardless of national, religious or any other belonging, an environment of protection, an environment of security, an environment of equality. After all, that is why I am in this House, and that is why my optimism has returned to me in view of the agreements we have reached with this government, that is, with the summit of this country. That's what, I think, is a good basis, which is what the members of the Bosniak community in the country and in the diaspora understood, but now it's essential to operate through all these mechanisms to confirm it. So, I'm also aware of the RTS issue that there is no command possibility, nor are we looking for it, but it's very important that the government, firstly, says these views very loudly, and of course we face all other problems together.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59800	Thank you. George Komlensky, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59801	I thank the chairman. Comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Prime Minister, I have to take this opportunity to try something we have been looking for for days, as MPs, from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, on those possible days for questions, Tuesdays and Thursdays, now in one way round that story. It is obviously necessary for someone to coordinate the work of all ministries, in order to definitely clarify the status and conditions under which N1, "New S" and "Sport Club" re-emission the programme in the Republic of Serbia. This cannot be resolved clearly until the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office and the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Justice are included in the analysis of all this besides REM. I mean, it looks like we got into a vacuum space or I don't understand something very well, which makes it possible for something to happen that's not right. About to find that N1, "Nova S" and "Sport Club" definitely have no registration and headquarters in the Republic of Serbia and let's accept it as such, we had wherever to check it. The key thing is whether they are dealing with re-emitation or abuse, so to speak, a small lack of coordination and working in an unauthorized way in this part of the market in the Republic of Serbia. Namely, REM gave us the answer that the programmes are also packaged and final versions of the programme and N1 TV and "Sport Club" work for the areas, in three final versions, Serbia, Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, that this final version of these contents is distributed to the provider in the territory of the Republic of Serbia after forming a study in Slovenia. On the other hand, we received a response from Luxembourg saying that these programmes are really being broadcast from Luxembourg. In order for it to be re-emissioned, it is necessary that these programmes that are being broadcast with us, broadcast in Luxembourg or in Ljubljana, and we cannot conclude from these answers given by REM and these answers we received from Luxembourg. If they are not broadcast there and unchanged in Serbia's territory, then all three companies commit serious violations, they are then taxpayers in the Republic of Serbia, making up a number of violations of commercial crimes. I'm asking you to really organize the ministries to clarify this, because it's not of little importance and I'd like to know your opinion on all of this and what we can expect.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59802	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59803	So it is certainly without a doubt and you are right, it is no doubt that media service providers N1, "Sport Club" and "New S" are not registered in the Republic of Serbia, or that they have not been granted media service permits by the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media, or REM. In that sense, they are not domestic channels. They are registered in the EU, i.e. Luxembourg, and in accordance with the Law on Electronic Media, those in Serbia are practically recasting their programme. It seems to me that to us all, no doubt, it is clear that these are domestic channels. I don't know how we can act crazy and say it's foreign channels. In this case, it's certainly about a hole in the law. I can say it now, I mean, that's my opinion. So, it's not that this program is just re-emitting, it's a domestic television program, with domestic content, domestic advertising, etc. What is also, which must be done, which is again, seems to me, something that requires a wider coordination which is certainly much more difficult because it is not just coordination within the government of the Republic of Serbia, different resolutions, different agencies, institutions, but independent bodies such as REM or such as RATEL, and that certainly seems to me to determine where the SBB gets the signal, say on TV N1? So I'm also asking independent bodies to deal with this a little bit more, and I understand that everyone is running away from this problem, because when you touch that, everyone is accusing you of wanting to get involved in the freedom of the media and shut down the media, but it's not about that at all. It is that we all respect the rule of law at least in one instance. We know that the SBB, as a media content distributor, does not respect, without a doubt, the laws of the Republic of Serbia, which is the Law on Electronic Communications, which says that channel numbering determines an independent body, or REM because it protects public interest, so by numerating the channels set by REM, the national RTS television must be the first channel. They do not respect it, so there is only a third channel for RTS, which abuses their position, which is mostly on the media market, i.e. in the market for distribution of media content with some 53%, in which public service is only on the third channel, while some other channels impose apriors on citizens of the Republic of Serbia and thereby absolutely directly and unequivocally violate the Law on Electronic Communications. So it's the only thing that's been determined and I know. Against that, REM can only file a misapplication, which they do not refer to in particular, but it is again something to participate in, and this most legislative body gives instructions, whether in that sense it should change the law, so that, in addition to a misapplication, there is something else to be done or not, so those sanctions are so small and insignificant that it is necessary for someone such as the SBB whether or not it violates the laws of the Republic of Serbia, but it is certainly found that in that sense the law is in breach. For all of this, I think, but this is my opinion as Ana Brnabic, who I certainly want to point out, is that here was found at least in the law, in which sense domestic channels are treated as foreign channels that are only re-emissioned in the Republic of Serbia and do not need permission from the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media and do not need registration in the Republic of Serbia. But it's certainly a very complex problem. I want to ask again the independent bodies and my ministers and the resolute ministries to deal with this issue because this is unfair competition. And what kind of message do we all send together as far as the rule of law is concerned? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59804	Thank you. Do you want another question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59805	Thank you. I have questions for the prime minister again, Prime Minister. We already talked about a good eight, nine months ago in this home that it is really necessary for judges to pay for violations to comply with the salaries of judges of regular and specialised courts. I think we talked about it when it came to the budget, since obviously, and then we agreed, and also from the statements I heard from Madam Minister, about harmonising those salaries, I will no longer ask if there are conditions and needs, but when we do, because indeed, these people have received the maximum obligations that involve judicial functions, but their rights are not fully respected. I think it's one of our serious obligations when it comes to the independence of the judiciary, and that we can almost change and supplement three or four members of the law. I don't know if financials are a problem or anything, but I don't see why you're doing this so much waiting. I am interested, when it comes to the publishing company "Prosveda" a.d. Belgrade, the Prince of Michael 12 currently in the programme of the pre-prepared restructuring programme, that is, the recovery from the robbery privatisation that is unfortunately not annulled, but is only broken, what is the Serbian Government, when it comes to this really important institution for the Republic of Serbia, can it do when it comes to two things? One thing is the reconstruction of the Geca Kon bookstore, for which they have received from the Republic Institute for Cultural Monuments orders to perform reconstruction, repair and all other, what can the Government do to provide them with adequate funds for this and whether the Ministry of Economy and the Government will support their application and request for credit approval that would allow them to simply align their business to the end and flat on their feet and that at least in this miniature we preserve a historic institution that once had 700 employees? You know what education meant in these areas. Unfortunately, the result of the robbery privatisations is that someone who bought without any consequences sold huge spaces in Chicago Ljubina, a huge number of other objects they had, brought them to the brink of destruction. It's a good thing that contract is broken, but I think we have an obligation to find opportunities to help them get on their feet in these two directions.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59806	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Vukosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59807	Of course, the Serbian government will, without a doubt, but also the Ministry of Culture and Information will take the utmost of its competence to save as much as possible. You correctly noticed that in the course of privatisation, which you also characterized by an approximately exact notion, things were happening that were more or less known to everyone, not only what you stated, but also the business space on Dobric's street, the warehouse on Emperor Dušan Street was sold, everything that could be sold in the way it was done at that time and with the personalities of that social moment, which we all know more or less. The happiness in all this trouble is that Geca Kon's bookstore is excluded from sales in this way and it is defined as an object of importance for culture and can only be a bookstore. It's one thing that's convenient in this whole anti-canceral and highly suspicious mix-up thing that's been going on. Of course, and now that this is being given from the budgetary positions for reconstruction and reconstruction, it is necessary to address the property issue of the economic operator. The right to tell you, I with a small grain of pessimism regarding your presumption whether it is possible to restore the publishing company "Prosveda" in its old glow and with that size of business and property that it once had, thanks to these circumstances that you and I have been talking about, it is hardly possible, but the state can help and will also help to, of course, protect the space of Geca Kon bookstore in a decent way and to resuscitate the damage caused by the flood. We're in communication with them. I believe we'll have concrete and rapid results regarding the recovery of the facility, so Geca Con's bookstores in Knez Michael. As far as these other matters are concerned, we will see that other resolution ministries will act in a very complicated situation in which much damage has been done to the Serbian publishing tradition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59808	Thank you. Here you go, commentary.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59809	Thank you for your comments. I didn't hear the answer for the judges' wages, but I hope we'll be able to work it out soon. I just want to point to one thing. I may be wrong, but I don't think there's even as much space to be called a hole in the law as a hole in coordination. In all of this, the key thing is, when I was talking about this so-called. In cross-border television, is the program we watch via the SBB channels of these TVs being broadcast in Luxembourg? If an identical programme, with ads in Serbian and all the other details is not broadcast there and here, it is a sufficient basis and sufficient indicator of what we talked about and I think it should be a starting point that will absolutely allow something more serious to happen besides breaking reports. In this situation, when it is obvious that someone is deliberately avoiding to establish this, because REM as a regulatory body, if it finds something like this, has the right to prohibit SBB from re-emissioning, or broadcasting these software content on its distribution network. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59810	The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59811	Thank you. There's a lot of questions, a little minutes. But to come from what I didn't plan, and what Mrs. Brnabic said about SBB and N1 television. I don't mind, on the contrary, that state television be on the first channel, but what I'd like, too, I don't know, since you took the floor on the subject, then let's get started, although I think the question is also for the Ministry of Culture and Information. I would like to see what should happen and suppose, that citizens, and two-thirds of Serbian citizens, can't watch that television not on the first, not on the second, but at all, can't watch that television, so that this television, which here presents itself as the source of all sorts of evil, and I think that it has its place in the media space, because we need it for media pluralism, can also see those citizens who have no idea what this television is broadcasting, but every day listen to trees and stones on account of it, its editorial program and its owners? So when you mention that terrible thing that, I don't know, RTS on that television, or, no, sorry, about that operator, right, in third, not first, then let's see what it's like with other cable operators. These TVs, I'm talking about N1 TV now, not at all, Mrs. Brnabic. To make it a contribution of pluralism to the media scene. That's, of course, one thing, maybe not the most important thing, but just to mention it. There is also the Minister of Ecology and Energy. I have a short question for them, but the subject is difficult, as far as these mini power plants are concerned. That seems like a little problem, but I don't think it's going to be and it's going to be bigger. At one point, it is not really a merit, or responsibility of this government, it began earlier, the mini-electric power plants were placed as a great miracle and salvation and happiness, called for EU standards and so on. Turns out it's not exactly like that, and their contribution to the energy system is very small, not to say miserable, these mini power plants, and the environmental damage is very large. So I expect a comment from you on whether something can be done about it. Of course, the occasion, but only because of this situation in the local communities of Tink and Rakita, where, in the opinion of prominent experts, the safety of these settlements is really at stake, not to mention environmental damage. Finally, the third, but most important old topic in the discussions between me and Mrs. Brnabic here. You finished last time, thanking the Brussels Agreement, our dialogue, Mrs. Brnabic. I have to go back to that sensitive subject, because maybe it is somewhere where we disagree, when it comes to these big political issues, not just you and me, but also these governments. I think that agreement is bad. That's where his signature sits. However, not a signator, but more paraphernalia, as it is said, the one who initialled it, but I expect you to answer that question. I'll continue later.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59812	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59813	I'll tell you anyway. First of all, as far as channel numbering is concerned, now whether it should be public service, national television first channel, or whether it takes another television or some other program to be the first channel, it does not redefine the Government of the Republic of Serbia again, and I do not determine myself, nor do I wonder about it, nor does anyone ask me. It defines the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media as an independent institution. Thus, an independent institution determines the numbering of channels in line with public interest, a balanced programme and public rights to be balancedd. In that they were absolutely clear. If they are clear, and someone does not respect it, then he violates the Law on Electronic Communications, without fully caring that he violates the laws of the Republic of Serbia. What you're saying is that two-thirds of the citizens can't watch that television is one completely superficial, flat-rate and incorrect information that I don't know where you're from or you're not informed of or you're deliberately disabling the public here. So I said, I'll repeat, SBB, as a media content distributor, holds 53% of the market, 53% of the market. At 53% of the market, these citizens, as the first channel, view N1 as the second channel sees "New S", as the third watch RTS. I think Telekom holds between 36% and 40% of the market. So it's absolutely not true that two-thirds of the citizens can't watch that TV. And I'm also going to inform you, which I assume you know, I don't suppose you're going to say that Telekom is giving a channel N1 in her program so that whoever has Telekom's program, or uses Telekom as a media content distributor, can absolutely watch N1 television. You don't have to worry about that, and it's the same thing with all the standards. As far as small hydropower plants are concerned, I can leave it to Minister Antic, but you're right and thank you at least for that. That's right, most of these permits were issued by the government at the time of Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic's term, and then the mini power plants were a big boom, they were very popular, that was what Serbia needed. So, you can tell me 100 times -- you can't go back to that time now, you have to go back to that time because if a government of some countries signs some contracts, it's extremely, extremely difficult for you to remain a credible country, a country that citizens, investors, domestic and foreign believe in, that you break the contract, the contractual obligations you've made. Not me as Ana Brnabic or Aleksandar Vukic as Aleksandar Vukic, as prime minister before me, but all those governments before him who left him, that is today, to me in amanet. We are certainly looking at and we are aware of this problem, but it is difficult to resolve the situation now that was taken over as a commitment at the time. As for the Brussels Agreement, I'll tell you again, we can talk about it further, I don't have any problem, even more, I wish we had more time, because absolutely if you weren't right, from the heart I think you're wrong. So my biggest argument is that, it will always be that the Brussels Agreement is in the interest of Serbia, the Serb people, above all, of the KIM Serbs, which Pristina is running away from him as the devil from the cross. If he were in Pristina's interest, they would have applied him tomorrow, as they applied the agreements he negotiated, agreed by Borko Stefanovic. All these agreements have been applied. They haven't been signed yet, and they've been applied. When you recognize the seal with the inscription "Karyna Kosova", of course Pristina will immediately apply it, so when you have an unequivocally whether the border is a border crossing or an administrative crossing, it is so unequivocal that someone can call it an administrative crossing and some border crossing, and of course it will be implemented immediately. When you put the limits, when you put obstacles, of course Pristina will immediately implement it. If you were right and the Brussels Agreement is contrary to the interests of the Serb people and Serbs in KIM, why do you think Pristina would not implement it? Why would we insist on it today and why would Pristina lose... It was the first blow when Pristina went seriously to lose credibility and some points in the international community, where they were cemented, which is that you negotiate a long and difficult agreement, sign it, and then it becomes quite clear that they will not implement it, and it is guaranteed by the EU. It is not easy for the EU today, however much it runs away from it, nor for the United States to answer the question why Pristina does not implement the international obligations it has undertaken, and for which it guarantees the EU. I say again to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the best indication of how well the Brussels Agreement is negotiated, how much it protects the interests of the Serb people in KIM, is that Pristina is running away from it like the devil from the cross. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59814	The word has Minister Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59815	Just one brief observation, addition to this about cable operators. Not at all entering the editorial policy of any television or operator's right to put what he thinks is in this or that position, we come up with a key question -- how did a cable operator come to a position that has 53% of the market? Is that legal? Is this done in a way to pay the state everything that needs to be paid, that if a network of cables of certain public enterprises is used, say, in Belgrade, is this paid to citizens of Belgrade? It's not. They're not getting paid. An illegal network of cables stretching across Belgrade and other parts of Serbia has been exploited, pulling cables without even getting a penny from citizens, and should have been given on the basis of the use of public resources. Worse than that, in the entrances where this cable operator exists, we are addressed by citizens, in a large number of entrances, and somewhere they don't even know it, this cable operator joined in to public light, to public electricity, to the electricity from the elevator, and thus used public resources of citizens. So, the resources of citizens living in these entrances, damages them and thus provides themselves with market influence. When these citizens turn to them, which is what people have letters for, and tell them – people, you've joined our power, we will no longer be connected illegally to our electricity that we pay for, they say under A – but if we shut down, if we get out of your power, then you'll no longer have an SBB and the other, and that's on the side, we ask that you all sign up in the building to do so. So, we're illegally joining, stealing your power, but we're setting up conditions under which we're going to end our illegal activities in large parts of Belgrade. This led to 53% of the impact, i.e. market participation. All this is the consequence, but the essence of the law is whether the law is applied, whether it applies equally to everyone or not, is not to be mentioned, because then you will be lynched because they dared to mention the media empires of School and Gilas, whether you can mention their names or not, or someone will live above you. We have to apply the law and we through the law have to show that the rules of the game apply to everyone. If Telecom is the biggest, as a state-owned company must settle all its obligations and thus participate in the game, then everyone must do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59816	Thank you. The word has Minister Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59817	First of all, ladies and gentlemen, the honourable MPs, the Prime Minister, in response to the question of small hydropower plants, gave a broad review. I wouldn't owe you any further in that answer. What I just want to insist on is that we have one serious understanding of the position and role of the Government of the Republic of Serbia in building small hydropower plants as an energy facility. First of all, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of Energy, whose head I am, does not affect where the mini power plant will be built. First of all, in order to build a mini power plant anywhere, the facility must be part of a regulation plan adopted by local self-government after a public debate and public insight procedure has been carried out. The facility requires the necessary consent, water conditions, certain elements that affect the nature of the institution and ultimately the final building permit for the construction of such a building is re-issued by local self-government units. We now have 60 and several megawatts of installed side from small hydropower plants. I wouldn't be dimensional about the impact of that on the entire energy system right now. I can agree that he is not the key, but in any case he has a certain place in our energy balance, and that is not some innovation that we in Serbia have invented. Modern European states, highly developed and those that take great care of the environmental impact, such as Austria, Switzerland, France, have a large number of small hydropower plants. And they're not in themselves a bogeyman if we stick to the law and take care of all the key segments, primarily about nature protection. What I stand for and I think it is a general policy and the government is above all that such objects are not built in protection zones, because if they are not built in protection zones we are solving a key problem, and in all other segmental, of course, it has to be a procedure that will strictly take care of nature protection and environmental threat and that is what we will insist on in the next period and I think that in some future with some new licenses that we will issue we will not have this kind of problem. Sometimes we have a certain non-discipline campaign for me. For example, the case of the Grza River and the small hydropower plant on the territory of the Paracin municipality is a perfect example for me. So, Paracino predicted this facility with his detailed regulation plan, issued a building permit to today's retailers they're headed for a column that's willing to fight against that mini power plant because it seems to them that it's popular at the moment and that it's part of some good trend. I advocate that all state authorities are doing their work strictly and quality to ensure that we find exactly such conditions that will ensure that our energy system develops, but that this is realised in one sustainable way and with full respect for all of those key environmental factors.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59818	Minister Trivan. Please just give us a second chance.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59819	Thank you very much. Since this issue is tanging both ministries, briefly, the Prime Minister has already given a broader framework and what is known to be important is that this is a legal state and that it cannot and will not destroy the facilities that have been built so far. What is the intensity of this is that objects are brought in to the purposes, to respect the laws and regulations that Minister Antic has already said and the point is that in 7.8% of protected goods, as far as it includes in Serbia, we avoid building and disrupting the environment, and I think there are enough locations that are both out and we will certainly talk to those who intend to do so outside of it and without any doubt we will protect nature and this water resource that is one of the key water resources. We can't go back in time like I'm talking right now. We must respect everything that has been done so far, but we are aware of the mistakes that have been made and we will certainly correct them and we will certainly protect our protected natural goods. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59820	Thank you. Would you like a comment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59821	I thank you for your answers. Any one of them could be a topic of labing all day. I spoke for three minutes, and I was in charge of 20, but that's how the Rules of Procedure was arranged. What to do. I'm just asking you to at least not match me later when those last two minutes are up. So I'm not here for N1 television lawyer or that cable operator. I'd just have to correct Mrs. Prime Minister if her percentages weren't adequate, that is, they're adequate when it comes to cable operator participation. The percentages have the largest share of individual operators within the cable network. I said and I repeat -- most Serbian citizens, I think about 60%, we can bid exactly what percentage, it's not quite clear, but certainly a lot of Serbian citizens can't watch that TV. That's the point. As far as the law is concerned, exorcise justice, like what it violates. I don't mind and I support every law enforcement issue, but there's an impression that I'm afraid of today's debate, let alone in the entire campaign that's being run, that this is still a kind of campaign against a cable operator and one television, or one channel that doesn't correspond to the current government. So, one is regulation of rights and laws, and the other is something that is gained as an impression of the campaign against that one company and against one television that, I repeat and stress, most Serbian citizens cannot even hear, but only hear criticism and disgust at the expense of them. As far as this key topic is concerned, it is the Brussels Agreement, it is a key issue of our disagreement, since you have more time, Mrs Brnabic, you have eloquently moved here and five times repeated the same thing – that Pristina’s reluctant to implement the Brussels Agreement is the best sign that it is good. That's what you said last time and now, but the problem is that you yourself have implemented everything that is right for Pristina. So Pristina only avoids implementing what would be its obligation. After all, read, if you don't want everything, then at least point 14 here in front of citizens, the Brussels Agreement where it is said that the two sides will not block each other in the process of Eurointegration. What is it, Mrs Brnabic, if not a confession, point 14, that the two sides will not block each other in the process of Eurointegration? The last thing, Mr. Stefanovic, since my time is running out, I wanted to ask you about the "Serb for Serbia" affair, which is obviously launched from some pro-government circles, do you have any indications, is there any conspiracy of world centres against us? Secondly, do you intend to resolve the "index" or "diplom" affair because it is something objectively burdening your work. I'd like you to effectively remove those dilemmas. We can keep quiet about it, it's kind of an elephant in a room we can pretend not to notice. So, for this successful performance of your work, it is desirable that the matter be settled well.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59822	Nebojsa Stefanovic will answer you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59823	Somehow, I knew when I mentioned that Scholak and Gilas were going straight to the answer. I don't know if Gilas is texting or programmed in advance. No doubt, it's infallible, absolutely infallible. I'm willing to take the punches as well as someone who's a public function bearer, but unfortunately that happens to every man in Serbia who dares to stand up to this octopus, anyone who opposes that kind of crime. Now I'll tell you why I'm saying it. This is where Mr. Vukadinovic says, I listened very carefully, he says there's a campaign going on here. When you say one of them breaks the law, it's a campaign. The question is, I'm sorry, what isn't true? Did they join the law? They did. Did they take the power of citizens to join their business interests? They don't do public work, they're not a state firm, they're not a home of health, they make huge money on it, against the law, at the expense of their company, and against the interests of the citizens. When you say that, there's a campaign against them. They don't say, no, I'm sorry, that's not true. We didn't join people in the elevator power. They were joining up. And they're still connected. A lot of people don't even know that. And they pay their bills. They don't say it's true, that's how we made our business empires. No, I don't. I expect now that Djilas and Obradovic will soon launch an initiative to ban the change of the alphabet and to throw the letter out, since the Czech Republic is no longer to be mentioned in Serbia, so we better throw the letter out of the alphabet and accidentally no one mentions the Czech Republic. You will all be silent, not only Gilas and Obradovic, but all their MPs, all those from the Alliance for Serbia, turn their heads on the other side. You can't say the word of the Czech Republic. And when you ask how Dragan Gilas earned his billions, billions of dinars? How did he earn them? Because he spoke to us here, in every place, and he was the director of the Office of the President of the Republic, Minister of National Investment Plan, Mayor of Belgrade, Deputy President of the DS, owner of all seconds in Serbia and commander of all media in Serbia, as the late Verica Barac said. That's not what I'm saying. He was an alpha and omega in the regime that managed all the media, dictated the headlines. We got people from that company that were working at the time, and they're ready to talk about it. That they called on Gilas's press order to dictate their headlines for tomorrow, so it wouldn't happen to be a different word, God forbid. When were you able to make a statement of criticism against Dragan Gilas during that period? In what media could this be a criticism, in which? Tell me one where the front page could appear where Dragan Gilas says he's not doing his job very well, so I don't say something sharper. What media? What time? What second? Where? If she couldn't go to RTS, where they had the most favourable contracts under quotes but for themselves and their company, and against the interests of the Republic of Serbia. Now, that's how it happened, and then the story came, and I made that money in the Czech Republic, and I came here as a rich man, and then I went into politics to help our people. Then check it out, and it says to be very precise – the company "Krokus", "Linea", IMD Internacional. These are the three companies that Gilas and his close related faces founded in the Czech Republic during his business in the Czech Republic. And now, not to read you every detail of everything, at the end of all these companies reported profits for all the years of business, when you add, of the total of 74,000 euros for all years of business, all together, if it hadn't spent the dinar, it could have brought in Serbia for all those years 74,000 euros. E, of 74,000 euros, how has Dragan Gilas officially reported 25m euros today? That's what I'm telling you about the officially reported money, directly linked to his name, real estate, company, and to tell people who are directly under his administration, it will never explain it to the citizens of Serbia. There you have absolute media silence. And when you start that question, you get the worst possible campaign, it gets you through the mud from morning till nightfall, because you can't ask where Gilasu's money came from and why he lied about 6 million people becoming in the Czech Republic when we found that everything was an absolute lie. When we found that money from the Czech Republic was a lie, from that moment on, no one must say the word of the Czech Republic. You can ask them whenever you want. What Mr. Vukadinovic says, not an elephant, is in the room, but Mr. Vukadinovic is no longer allowed to mention, not the Czech Republic, not these three companies, do not let God wonder how it is possible that while someone was at all these functions, he had all the time of the company, to which he said he transferred the management rights. So what does that mean? You start a company, you get a director to run it, and you're from that moment, like you have nothing to do with it, and these companies probably get jobs that the director is nice and he had a good breakfast that morning. Well, no, you're getting it because your boss, or company owner, is a political power man, who runs the country, so he gets it. Then when these companies increase their wealth abnormally by the years in which they operate, 18 billion dinars passed only through these companies during the rule of Dragan Gilas, 18 billion dinars. People unimaginable money, unimaginable money. Thanks to the authorities, not because they were the only good companies. We find out the next thing, we find out it's just a small "M-tel" of Republika Srpska, and people don't think it's a Republika Srpska company, it's a Serbian company, it's a company daughter of Telecoma company operating in Republika Srpska. The "Teleko" of the Republic of Serbia" with Gilas's firms has 30m euros in traffic in Media Baing over a short period of three years and in various marketing promotions, which he paid Gilas' companies. Only the "M-tel" of Republika Srpska 30m euros. Guys, where's RTS, where's Telecom Serbia? There are also daughters of Telecom company in Montenegro, and that's only one part of the job. Where are all those companies that worked here with RTS reality? The man founded reality in Serbia, had licenses for all reality. He brought us Big Brother, he brought us a 48-hour wedding, he's getting married, he's not getting married, he's not getting married, he's already called. These were all the reality that Gilas placed in this country and made a serious profit on it. I guess his company chose because she was the best. Win the tender. I'm sure it had to be that way. When you mention it, you get mud in your face and crap, no matter how much you have to defend yourself, I deny myself, get out of college, show people the paperwork, let the media come in with footage reports from every exam, with laying down, with the names of the home professors, do it all, and the lie continues. I tell you that, I do not intend to give up the fight for legality in Serbia. Me and the MUP will insist on lighting up all the malversions that have taken place in this country. Why are they trying to return to power? They're trying to get back into power, because they can't do it anymore. You don't have these companies today, you have media that can write about anyone. What they say about Alexander Vukic, about his family, about my family, about Ana Brnabić, about people who are close to her, about all of us, where you could do it from 2008 to 2012. I was the chairman of the City Committee of the Party to which I belong during that period, Studio B at the time was state television, television paid by all citizens of Belgrade, public service. Do you know how many times I've spent four years as president of the City Committee of the largest opposition party on Studio B, which even then, I can't say, I can't say that he's had any too much ratings? Zero times. I received one term in mandatory party representation for the 2012 elections. That's when I was a guest, because the law prescribed it, so they had to call me. Zero times, they didn't want to pass on my statement. "Studio B" public service under the direct stick of Dragan Gilas. He could at least do a trick, call us once every three months, and say, "Here, I gave you 20 minutes, once in three months, is it small." Zero times. These are the people who ran our lives, these are the people who put judges and prosecutors in a party position, thinking about the time after power. You have, you have seen everywhere, those documents are publicly available from the municipal boards of DS, directly under Gilas, Tadic, Djelic, all those who have done a very good job for us in the economy, which I could talk about for hours. These people wrote – this is the prosecutor who is favored by the opinion of the Municipal Committee of the DS, choose him. This is the judge. Pick him. So that they would come in 2014 or 2015 to say – well, if we did something, why didn't you sue us? Who can sue you? With which prosecutors, with which judges? Today, many shake the meaning of Gilas’ name, Jeremiah, with his Patrick Ho. You know, Patrick Ho is being suspected of the highest degree of corruption and thinks we've forgotten him. You see, people think we forgot Patrick Ho. We haven't forgotten Patrick Ho and we'll be back on the subject of Patrick Ho. So, Patrick Ho, with another man, are both suspects, one for giving, one for taking bribes, the highest forms of corruption, and the man who was their middleman, Vuk Jeremic, should be appalled. How is that possible? How is it possible that it's perfectly okay to take the money for them to be suspects in a major criminal affair, to be convicted of it, and he who intervened in crime to take the money for it and that it's clean? I don't understand that. I don't understand if it's the morals they stand for? Or they'll say, as far as morale goes, so you know what goes on. But what is obvious is that there is no way to mention the name Dragan Gilas, Vuk Jeremic, Šolak, Bosko Obradovica, and that the whole campaign is not being put on your head and it is pointless, whatever you are answering, because they are just continuing. But they won't answer to the Czech Republic, they won't answer millions, they won't tell you where the money came from. They won't tell you that, because that money was acquired by political influence during the government. That's how it was acquired, that's how these companies did business. That can't be said. It must not be mentioned RTS, it must not be mentioned "Telecom", not to mention those contracts they had, because they were pulling money at the time of their government, operating with state-owned enterprises. So, did Gilas convince us that he didn't have any state clients? Did that convince us? Only with the "M-tel" of Republika Srpska 30m euros. Guys, it's a huge amount of money in just a couple of years. When you find out what they won't do, I don't want to mention other TVs, because I'm not interested in these editing programs and how they're going to do it, editing their program. What, they didn't have special shows about it? If it wasn't for some investigative journalist who was interested in asking – excuse me, some people have provided information, let's see, it's a little weird, while you were in power, while you were a minister, that your companies were making so much money, it's a little weird. No, those investigative journalists aren't gonna be interested in that. Don't let God mention it, I think Gilas is banging pucks that mention the letter "h" right away goes educationally-corrected. So there's no way, no one from their ranks can. When you mention the Czech, they all see, you're at a press conference, everyone's looking up, they have a command where the corners have to look, they can't look down. No, the letter "ch" is out, I expect the next initiative to be evicted and there is no need to use it in our language at all. So we're going to explore everything and where they changed the laws. Unfortunately, I'm asked by people in Serbia -- how is it possible that there was such a big robbery of Serbian citizens, privatisations that were robbing, the worst in the world? How is it possible that it was all done? It's done, we're all witnessing it. Unlike this time, when this one Alexander Vukic and the Serbian government open many factories, when unemployment with 26%, how much we found, came to below 11%, when we have today's surplus in the budget, when people work. They ask me, how is it possible that these people were robbing and that these big fish were not responding? Because they passed laws, unfortunately, that made it possible. They passed laws in which the robbery was legalized, where the factical privatisations were made in a way that you literally entered into the property of the company you privatize and that you don't have to fulfill the privatisation obligation, destroy the company, and then just withdraw and break up the answer and return the shell to the state, return nothing to it, the wreck, etc. That's how it was possible. Today, these people are smiling, standing by. It's okay that he took 30 million from Republika Srpska's "M-body", which belonged to him, because he was still the best. Imagine that someone from this government has a company that sells seconds, influences the media and says, "I've transferred management rights, not me," but I've got nothing to do with it, I'm just the owner, I'm just taking money. And, let's say, with Telecom, it has a 30 million contract today. Do you think he could survive? Well, they'd hang him for the first time, really. But you really couldn't. At the time, it could and it's fine. It's okay that they could and it's okay when Verica Baraq writes... Do you think that when Verice Barac appeared in 2011, that he was published on television, that he was published at a public service, at RTS, at Studio B? I expected, Dragan Gilas as a big Democrats, to let Studio B do a special show and say – this is scandalous for the president of the Anti-Corruption Council to make such heavy accusations, I expected that perhaps at that time, Mr Vukadinovic, says – the elephant is in the store, a great elephant, let us respond. No, it couldn't have been then. Then the question to Dragan Gilas, as it is today, many cannot ask. Unfortunately, from Gilas they were getting beat up when they asked questions, and that's another topic. Unfortunately, in one part of our history, these people were not allowed to be told anything, they were the masters of our lives. What I saw last from the press release, I finally realized what they missed the most. Now I finally understand where the greatest pain is, and that is Miroslav Miskovic. I see that people miss that time when they used to run Serbia together, we see how hearty they're defending him, how they mention his name, and how they're trying to mess him up with the story once, you know, that's what, at the little door to try to relativize everything and actually say how political it is to play it. In fact, they wanted Mishkov's cash registers. Now, if they could go back to those times and the register again, I believe they would be very happy, but I don't think the citizens of Serbia will allow that much longer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59824	I don't know, because I deleted the screen, because it was too much reported. It doesn't have to, MPs, I have a order in which to report you, I mean ministers. The word has a minister, Zlatibor Lonchar.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59825	Dear Presidents, honourable MPs, I listen carefully to all these statements and, of course, it is extremely serious issues. I'm glad that both the Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Minister have reminded us of the times behind us and of course all these things are quickly forgotten, we're reorienting to something new and we're going that way, and then we think it's all normal and it should go that way. But I can't take one impression, I know, we've all worked today and you've been here all day, we've had all kinds of obligations, someone's seen it, someone's heard it, someone's not, I think the bottom of Serbia is touched today. Today, individuals longed, or wished, for the children of the president, son and daughter to be dead. So that's something I think we can't get past. I'm really sick of having to appeal to you all the time, people come forward, and we don't appeal to the authorities to do anything. But, guys, let's just be realistic, most of us are parents, somebody's got younger kids, somebody's got older kids, this is gonna end, we're gonna go home, there are kids who read it, who see it. Well, they'll ask us, here, we see what they want for Daniel, what they want for Milic. You're in some power, and what have you done, so that it doesn't become normal in Serbia, because unfortunately no one could possibly have imagined that could happen, and this happened? So I appeal to all of you, and to us as Government and as MPs, we are all in one place, whether we will respond to it or we will let it pass, that tomorrow it is as if nothing had happened, and I think it is a unique opportunity for all MPs, if against this and we from the government who are certainly against it, to come out and say that it must never happen again, and that it must be sanctioned, that no one can think of it again. Then let them wait for Miskovic and Gilas and Jeremiah, and then let them do so with them.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59826	Commentary, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59827	I wouldn't comment on this last one, I don't know what it's about, but I think it really touched the bottom, in different ways. As for Mr Stefanovic, I think he missed the topic and the place and that, over the twenty minutes he spoke, he spoke as SNS Vice President, it is an appropriate speech at a party press conference, but not in the National Assembly, because he is here as Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior who answers the question of MPs. He managed not to answer two of my questions, one of them explained why he wouldn't answer, and the other one kept quiet. Mr. Stefanovic, believe it or not, I'm rooting for you. You know why? Because I know that whoever comes after you will be a worse minister than you. So, I don't have that problem at all, but I'm just telling you, if it's an elephant, if it's a mammoth, we can talk about it, but for an affair like this, there were ministers or sometimes high-ranking civil servants in both Germany and the Czech Republic, you see, I can say the word Czech Republic, and in the environment. So, simply, please, if you can, make an explanation of this affair, show the index, remove it, and then we'll talk about it, or talk about Solak and Gilas. After all, as vice president of the party, make a duel at RTS, at Study B, at N1, call Mr. Gilas, and discuss what you have with him about these millions, billions and more. So it's just not the place for this. Secondly, before I run out of these two minutes, I need to remind you that you have failed to say anything about this shameful affair of the "Serb for Serbia" and the insinuations of the pro-regime media that someone is working on the head of the state and the president, some friends from the country at the top of the NATO Alliance. Either deny or confirm, don't let us deal with elephants or mammoths.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59828	Thank you. It's not correct, it can't be answered to your comment, and you know it. It's not right to ask questions and turn out like no one's gonna answer you. Alexander Stevanović has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59829	Dear members of the government of the Republic of Serbia, the parliamentary group of the Modern Serbian Party will have two issues, both linked to 35 large sets of issues in front of Serbia. The first question concerns the fulfillment of Chapter 30. Serbia is one of the few countries in Europe, along with Belarus and Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is not a member of the World Trade Organisation, excuse me, there is Andorra and, if I am not mistaken, San Marino, but they are not really relevant. In 2004, when a two-track policy was adopted and Serbia then began negotiations as a customs area, it has been about 15 years since then. We with two pillars of the international financial order have excellent relations with both the IMF and the World Bank. However, with the World Trade Organization, we have a problem that is entirely up to us, we have a bilateral that has been going on for years and that could probably be solved, that we don't have this one problem that concerns the very strange understanding of the nature of progress in the area of agriculture, with us known as GMOs, where we're going to have tomatoes that are likely to bite and all that's going to turn up will lead to the destruction of our agriculture. That, of course, is not true and it is nothing controversial. However, our law is such that with such laws we cannot enter the World Trade Organization. To join the European Union, we must be a member of the World Trade Organisation and it is desirable not to do so in the last year. I don't think we could, because first we need countries to confirm us, each and every single one, that we have met all the conditions. On the other hand, the question is why do not we remove the problem in the regular procedure of times of law in Serbia. In fact, the European Union has very restrictive laws on GMOs that are fully in line with the principles of the World Trade Organisation and the question is how long will we wait and I wish that in our country this problem does not stand aside, that we should not be in the company of Uzbekistan, Iraq, Iran, Syria, Sudan, Ethiopia, because we do not belong there. I wish our foreign trade didn't suffer the cost of not being able to practice multilateralism. In addition to all our diplomacy, we cannot solve trade relations with countries that are not traded too much, and yet we have to fight for every company, for every job and for every euro that we earn on the foreign market, because only export expansion can lead to rapid growth, the national market is not enough. So my question is, when are we going to get through a regular law that will be in accordance with the rules of the World Trade Organisation, to discuss it here in the Assembly and adopt it? What are we going to do with protocols 5 and 7 of CEFTA and building administrative capacities related to Chapter 30, which were some of the European Union's objections?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59830	Thank you. Mr. President, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59831	I will return only briefly to some of the comments of the previous MP. So you told me you didn't understand the attacks on N1 television. I didn't attack N1 TV and don't change thesis. So I absolutely didn't attack N1 television. I was talking about SBB as a media content distributor. As for N1 television, I don't interfere with their editorial policy, let them do this or that, let them talk about this or that. So, what are their priorities at all, I don't want to, I don't want to, I don't want to, I don't have any intention. So I didn't attack N1 television, I didn't mention it absolutely any way, except to say that on SBB, as a media content distributor, with 53% of the market, they're number one channel, then two Nova S, so it's only three of those channels that the independent body said had to be channel number one. I said - The SBB directly and unequivocally violates the Law on Electronic Communications of the Republic of Serbia. The fact that you're giving an equal sign between SBB and N1, I didn't do it, that's what you did. But what I can or can do then with papers certainly, indirectly and directly to establish a sign of equality between the SBB, or School and Gilas, we can, too, but I didn't mention it and I didn't attack them, and I'm never going to attack them. If we're talking about the attack, and you should know that, but I haven't heard that you've been particularly loud about it, the attack on the media directly and unequivocally, we can see when RTS attacks and RTS journalists, physically attack, break the door, fly in there, threaten the press, demand their five minutes, wants an editorial policy, though opposition. So imagine what it would look like today, what it looked like before, and what it would look like today, if they were in power, when in opposition they physically threatened to edit the journal of RTS. That's what the attack looks like. It may also be verbal, but this looks like a direct unequivocal physical attack on public service and journalists, all of them, and journalists and technicians and all the other people, makeuprs who worked there and who worked there that night. So I did not attack N1, I will never attack them, I have absolutely no interest in attacking them, it is not in line with the government policy of the Republic of Serbia that I am leading both our values and our principles. On the other hand, we saw what the attacks on the media looked like when we had the Alliance for Serbia and Gilas and Bosko Obradovic and all the others who boasted that they had entered there today and threatened people. We saw what the attack on Pink looked like when we had a physical attack on two girls in Pink. Now, that's what attacks on the media, brutal, physical attacks on the media, whose editorial policy you disagree with, just because you disagree with their editorial policy. We don't have that kind of manners. We respect the media, and those who have a different editorial policy, i.e. an editorial policy that does not support what we do, our projects, do not particularly like to talk about our results, support other people, which is all legitimate in one democratic society, we show our values, our principles every day at public events, the press conferences we organise by inviting each of them and standing as long as we need to answer as many questions and questions. What again, absolutely parallel, as in the mirror you can see when you go to a press conference of the Alliance for Serbia, where when someone they don't like, ask a question, they say -- I won't answer you are not the media. Who are you to determine which media? Is that media freedom? Is that the rule of law? Is that modern Serbia? European Serbia, that's what they promise citizens of the Republic of Serbia. And then they tell us, you attack the media. We're attacking the media? We sit, we stand, we answer seven questions, 17 questions from day to day, every day. The private, state-owned, family-related, there's nothing they haven't told us, there's nothing they haven't told us, let's not do here for public business, so we earned it, we've been looking for it, we've got it, we've got families, we've got underage faces, who have nothing to do with it, nothing's wrong with it, nothing's wrong. They do not exist today, as Minister Loncar said, there is no unfortunately today in the policy of the red line. Do you know who introduced it? It's not us, it's those investigative media, so-called investigative media and opposition who didn't hesitate to point their finger at the brother, then Prime Minister Vukic, then the father, then the son, so it doesn't matter how old he is, how young he is, or how old he is, or whether he has anything to do with the truth, has nothing to do with the truth, without even one single piece of evidence, and then it becomes normal. It was then Anna Brnabić's brother, Father of Nebojsa Stefanovic, son of whom I don't know which minister, brother of Sinisha Mali, wife, baby, no matter now, because it's become normal. I'm proud we're not doing it and we'll never do it. Did we attack the family? Whose family did we attack? When did we attack a journalist physically? When we attacked a verbal journalist, except verbally to argue that we don't have the same attitude. I'm proud of it. The citizens of the Republic of Serbia also know who is attacking the media and not to talk about the gray zone. Did I attack them? No, physically, slap the slap on the girl, 'cause she's a reporter at Pinka. It's okay, why not? Did Dragan Gilas say they weren't the media. Then what are they? And who is he to determine who the media is? Physical attack on RTS, I want my five minutes, I'm going to edit the Dnevnik, where is the studio here? Well, wait guys, stop. Is that the Serbia we represent, the Serbia we want, that's European Serbia? So, I didn't attack N1, please, I didn't even attack SBB, I said they're breaking the law. They're breaking it. Do you want me to say they're not breaking it, that we can't talk about it, that it wouldn't be, that it's a threat to freedom of the media. No, this is respect for the rule of law. Here, let them say they don't break. Here, let them say that the numbering isn't what REM needed. Here, they can change the number tonight and respect the laws of the Republic of Serbia and continue every day, 24 hours, to talk about the rule of law and how this state, this government does not respect the rule of law. And you gentlemen? We change laws, we try. Is there still a lot of things to be done? There's a lot of things left. Are we going fast? Well, we're not going fast enough, we can go faster. And, gentlemen, how difficult is it for you to respect the laws of the Republic of Serbia and the rule of law? Here, I urge you to respect the numbering, in accordance with the law, to respect what the independent body has given. How hard is that? Now, as far as more specific matters are concerned, than the MP, Chapter 30, World Trade Organisation. I just want to tell you that this is a terribly important topic, that we're not running away from, and you're right, there's only one open topic left, these are amendments to the GMO law. Unfortunately, you know that, too, this is a subject which is needlessly politicized, and this is a topic on which we will certainly see, and you will see for yourself, a completely inappropriate political opportunism, because this is important for Serbia, important for Serbia, we are extremely important to be members of the World Trade Organisation and as soon as we open up, and we will open the subject of amending and supplementing the GMO law, you will see all people who don't care about both GMOs and our farmers and what it will actually say. What we're going to propose is a much better solution than what we have right now, it's just going to be important to re-spin reality and accuse us of wanting to open Serbia to this, which is not the point. Serbia had a law before 2009 that was good enough for us to become a member of the WTO. In 2009, the law was amended to block our membership in the World Trade Organisation, unfortunately. And it is a subject, and I want to assure you that the topic that is high on our list of priorities and that we will deal with and deal with already, but we will deal with it even more in the next period. I want everyone, including you or perhaps first of all you, to ask for support with the topic that will be regardless of the party's support to the ruling majority, whether or not to the government, because this is an issue that is important to Serbia. Because we all need to take this subject seriously together. Also, I want to tell you that we have a great relationship and, more importantly, we have a constant communication with representatives of the World Trade Organisation, and even one person, and a counselor in my office who worked, has left and is now a representative of Serbia in the World Trade Organisation, which seems to me to be indirectly talking about the credibility that we have in the WTO. I can tell you that they generally expect amendments to the law so that we can quickly and efficiently complete this process. As for the CEF of Protocols 5 and 7, you know that we, or at the initiative of the Government and Assembly, ratified Protocol 5. The temporary institutions in Pristina are the only ones in the region that have not yet ratified Protocol 5 of the CEFT on Protocol 7, we are discussing, we have found solutions for some open issues, but unfortunately CEFT, as CEF, has been suspended by violation, by direct breach of CEFT by Pristina, by introducing 100% fees for goods for central Serbia and BiH. So at this point CEFT as such doesn't exist, unfortunately, it's on ice. What we will do in Serbia's interest, regional stability, regional co-operation, better regional trade, is that we will now, while CEF is practically suspended, go to as much as possible and to fast-track bilateral agreements. Finally, the Assembly's agenda is also a ratification of the Agreement with Northern Macedonia. I expect that even in the first week of August, we will sign that we will have an AEO, or a privileged economic operators, that is, the system, and that we with Northern Macedonia will bilaterally ratify what is called the AEO. So we will go much faster in the exchange between Serbia and Northern Macedonia, and then bilaterally and with all others, that is, with as many Western Balkan countries as possible, and that is the only way we are responsible at this time to fight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59832	The word is Alexander Stevanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59833	It's not like we wanted to go chronologically, but it just turned out that way. The second issue of the Modern Serbian Party concerns Chapter 31. Chapter 31 has one dose that brings one feeling of reluctance to the part of our citizens in Serbia. It's called coordination, common, foreign and security policy. We're going to have to do it at some point, and that moment is approaching, at least I hope so, if it wasn't for the moment that we're going forever and we're not going to meet him in some later years of life that wouldn't be good for the development of this country. So in 2017, we had 53% compliance with EU foreign policy. Paradoxically, even before we started negotiations, that harmony was at a similar level, and that's something that's waiting for us, that we have to coordinate. I don't think it's the point that we've been avoiding it for years because it can later cause consequences that can be unpleasant. I can understand it because of traditional relations, and especially because of some alliances that have benefited us that we have different attitudes, let's say when it comes to relations with the Russian Federation, but I find it very difficult to understand different relations on the issue of countries that do not matter to us in the foreign policy sense, for example. as Venezuela or as it has been several times supporting Iran's counter-EU policy So there is one dose of concern in the modern Serbian party, that we tend to have as many supporters as possible not to lose the support that our companies and our citizens voted for when we chose to have 80% of our trade flows, capital to be with the countries of the European Union.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59834	Thank you. The word has Minister Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59835	So that we don't remain obliged to answer a few questions, first of all, the question is about what's called a noose. So, people have to understand that operational processing is being conducted when the state, and of course there are always those who want to harm the interests of their country and to protect their interests and not to them, these certain foreign services and forces, are not in their best interest our national interest but theirs. When these interests do not overlap, of course there is an operation of these forces to realize their interests. As long as it goes, it depends on a lot of factors. We didn't have one time, the public knew about it, we had an arrest in this country of foreign citizens who found weapons, who were obviously here with weapons that were milled, where there were no serial numbers and didn't surely come to our country to be interested in GMOs or how best they would invest, but were coming to commit some serious crime. What the public needs to know, about this, the prosecution and the security services, they can't even go public with preliminary results, but even with the results of the ongoing investigation, there's simply a difference, people don't understand. We're talking about investigations, we're talking about investigations that are being investigated, which have a beginning and an end, where the evidence is being provided and where it's going in the next phase of a criminal trial. While it's in the investigative phase, you can't say -- well, to do this, or not to do this, we best inform all those who are under the control of state bodies related to potential terrorism or organised crime, that we look at your crime. Of course we can't do that. So what's good is that the security apparatus works well, that the Republic of Serbia has services that can deal with organised crime, potential terrorism and those who want to threaten our security. Thanks to this, and of course, above all to the economic stability of the country we have peace in our country, we have stability in our country, we have the possibility of our country progressing. I just want to tell people that they have confidence, that the state authorities are going to investigate every single thing to the end and that in the end, citizens will have information about what's been going on and how it's happened. As for Mr Vukadinovic's second question, you know, it's hard to always comment on imaginary affairs because you can plant them on a daily basis and then expect someone to comment on it. I understand that you don't like me, you don't like my university, you don't like the study program, you don't like the professor from the university, you don't like the teacher from the university, you go out for free, and academic Rakić says – yes, since then, according to all the laws everything has been done according to the law. The college did the best it could. Open your archives, show you all the documentation, so not the Index, but show you the records from the exams, the exams and everything else, but that will never be enough. Why? Because then it's better to talk about it than to talk about thieving and robbing. You can't talk about Gilas' money. So as not to talk about Gilas' money, when you mention the Czech Republic you get one affair, when you mention something else, you'll get another affair. Just so you don't talk about it and it's a topic that's been created before. This topic didn't come up yesterday, it's a topic that's been created that hasn't been talked about for years, which can't be talked about for years, it can't be talked about the relationship between RTS and Gilas companies. It's simple, you can't talk about it. Why? Well, because it was all regular and clean. It's not, but let's see how it was RTS, who, under what conditions gave these contracts, let's see if it was in accordance with the law, let's see how it was and who decided to give these huge millions of euros, like 30 million euros in co-operation with Telekom alone. I understand why they're trying to escape without talking about it, they won't talk about robbery privatisations. They won't talk about how to track a six-month-old baby. You know, when it comes to the subject, everyone's running away, and here's this hero who won't answer, the one who followed the baby, now he's stuck in some rat hole, he can't move, he can't get a nose, we don't even know who he is, and we'll find who he is, who the hero who decided to follow the six-month-old baby. Now, that's scandalous. I'm sorry, if they were following your six-month-old baby, every single one of you in this room would be shocked, you'd feel scared, you'd feel terrible, you'd feel terrible in this country, in every country. But some people are allowed to do it and they do it with sweetness, they make things up, they make them up, they have a factory to manufacture, they have something new every day. Again, not to talk about money, about what was going on, about how money was sucked out of the country, because at the time, 400,000 people were out of work, at the time the factories were closing down, there were no new jobs, then the clock measured how much we were losing our jobs per hour. I understand that this Obradovic doesn't understand it, he also had a problem with the alphabet, he came to "c", but I understand that those who are more serious about this, they are doing it precisely for reasons not to talk about these topics, so as not to talk about how one of them reported, if he had become a billionaire in the Czech Republic, brought 74,000 euros from the Czech Republic and then became a multimillionaire in Serbia during the exercise of power and during the entire time his party was in power. There is no answer to that question, it must not be launched as a topic because they would like to return to power. They would return to power, but not return to power to do good, for they did not do so even when they were in power. I find it really funny when someone whose minimum wage in Serbia was so low that it was scandalous that the average salary was 320 euros, minimum wage, if I remember 159 euros well. And, then, these people say – it's not enough now. It's not good now. It is not a good average salary of 462, 465, 467 euros, which is growing and, thank God, with good work and Prime Minister we will have the opportunity to re-enlarge both salaries and pensions. It's not good for nearly 500 euros, but it was good for our 300 euros -- that's what I'm telling you because anyone in Serbia, I don't think there's any illusion that if they went back to power to get something good for the citizens, they were coming back to power for themselves, because of their cash register, and that if they could get Mishka back in the game, it would be great.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59836	Thank you, nice. The word has a Minister Dacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59837	I have just come to the attention of this issue regarding Chapter 31 - Harmonisation of the foreign, security and defence policies of the Republic of Serbia with EU policy. It's true that from year to year is a different percentage of our compliance. At present, this coordination is about 62%, 63%. But this is a question that cannot be answered statistically and percentageally, because we need to be clear with one thing. It is that we have set as our strategic goal of EU membership, but we and other strategic goals that we cannot compromise by joining some of the views, declarations, resolutions and convictions of some countries that help us to realise our national and national interests, so that this issue is very complex and everyone in the EU knows it. Who is he who would commit his own political suicide, except, of course, the actions of opposition parties in our country, but I'm talking about an international political scene? I'm talking about how now you can address China, Russia, India, Indonesia or any other country for help when it comes to our territorial integrity and sovereignty, and you can impose sanctions on them on the first political curve? It's just not possible. When it comes to Venezuela, Venezuela is one of the countries that strongly and most strongly supported Serbia and our territorial integrity. Guaido contacted Pacolli and Pacolli confessed to Guaida. It is not our interest that those who will recognise Kosovo come to power in Venezuela, is it? That, after all, is none of our business. It's not our business to interfere with Venezuela and other countries' internal affairs. We never supported Madur as Madura, but we did not support Gwaid as president whom the people did not choose. That's what it's all about. You can't accept... We as a country do not recognise the governments of some countries, but recognize countries. After all, when it comes to Iran and so on, Iran voted, as you know, against Kosovo's membership in Interpol. We can't just vote against Iran right now. It was like that at the time of the previous authorities, so we had big problems with them in terms of voting. I will remind you that our national state interests are a sum of our foreign policy priorities. At the time of Tadic, Kostunica and other percentages of the accession, although no one forced us to do so, was more than 90%. They say that in some countries of the former Yugoslavia in foreign ministry services and in missions to the UN or the EU, diplomatic officials of those countries are hardly needed, that anything that arrives at an e-mail or fax is automatically supported. We, unfortunately or fortunately, are not in this situation because we do not know what will arrive at the e-mail, or fax, and because we are not a country that reacts in this way, we already have our own national and state interests. Therefore, nothing that is to our harm will be accepted, which means that we will take care of our national and state interests. We can't judge our friends. After all, they do not allow their friends to be convicted, such as terrorists from Kosovo. Also, you saw Pacolli say yesterday that we are under terrible pressure to stop us withdrawing Kosovo's recognition, to let Kosovo enter international organisations, and they re-apply for Interpol membership. They applied for membership in other international organisations, in the World Customs Organisation. Yesterday, Pacolli announced that Kosovo is a big day, they established diplomatic relations with Antigua and Barbuda, which she otherwise recognised two or three years ago. So they're gonna work, and they're not gonna let us. That's over. Here, I warn everyone, tomorrow and the day after tomorrow will have a reaction to this, we continue our fight to withdraw recognition of Kosovo's independence. What does that mean? Let's watch how they... What do you say we give it up for them to get into Interpol? Therefore, in front of Nebojsa Stefanovic and the interior ministry and the foreign ministry, there will be major activities in October. There will be another Interpol conference in Chile, where they will run again. Whether it's on the agenda or not, we'll see. When it comes to the Brussels Agreement, I'd just like to remind you, I signed it. The Brussels Agreement does not define anywhere that Kosovo should be a member of international organisations. It was not defined by the Brussels Agreement, it was defined by the agreements before the Brussels Agreement signed by Borko Stefanovic, which is Kosovo's participation in regional initiatives, organisations, but also in the way agreed, which means star and footnote. Therefore, any current attempt by Kosovo, i.e. Kosovo's refusal to participate in regional forums, says it was acceptable for them at the time, and today it is no longer possible for them to insist that it should not be. That's what happened in Sarajevo now. They didn't come. There was a prime minister. I was at this ministerial level, a co-operation process in Southeast Europe, although the first such conference was held when they entered this process in Albania under the same conditions, and these conditions are no longer acceptable to them today. If they're not acceptable, it's not acceptable for us to return to something we didn't agree on. So, the Brussels Agreement absolutely does not include any membership of Kosovo in international organisations, especially in those international ones. It is about initiatives, even when Serbia agreed to it. It is about regional initiatives under which an agreement was signed and an even list is listed, and this was signed by Borko Stefanovic. When it comes to the UN, the OSCE, the Council of Europe, Interpol, UNESCO and everything else, there is no agreement, no agreement. They always want to say, "We'll cancel the fees, and you let us into those organizations." That is out of the question, because these are unilateral acts that must not be considered at all as part of the negotiation process, so it is a dialogue in the problem, but dialogue has been blocked primarily due to unreasonable moves by Pristina. In the end, I want you to... President Vukic said that I think he was on TV yesterday or yesterday, where he said he would invite the Serbian government, or the prime minister, to call ODIR for the elections. Those who do not follow it, ODIR is a specialised body, i.e. the OSCE institution, which is involved in monitoring the elections and I have not seen a single reaction from these parties that has so far advocated the creation of conditions for going to the elections. You know, in 1991 or 1992, when many weren't even born here, unfortunately, I did, was dialogue between the authorities and the opposition. Maya and I were the youngest then, and now we're already retired. At that time, Nikola Milosevic, a respected academic, whom I respected very much, took part in the name of the Serbian Liberal Party, said quite frankly, not taking into account what kind of reactions this would cause: "Oh, well... “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” We talked about different conditions -- which electoral system, how it would be controlled and so on, the electoral commission, and then at one point he said, "Oh, I don't want to talk. There are no conditions under which I will go to the elections. “ This is the essence and politics of some parties here. So there are no conditions, there are no conditions under which they will go to elections because they will see how many votes they actually don't have. And that's a big difference. Otherwise today, what Mr. Loncar said earlier, otherwise today, the representatives of these parties themselves, without any criticism, would be fenced by these threats and shameful messages that go to President Vukic and his family, because this is not a political struggle and we really don't need to discuss it politically at all. The reaction to that is known, it is an arrest and there is nothing to fight politically about. I really invite those who do it to do it. It's not politics. (Nebojsa Stefanovic: They are engaged. Well, well, if we're dealing with seeing results. I want to tell you that I really think that goes beyond all forms of political struggle, because it's not a political struggle and we don't need to discuss it at all. That's what we need to get out of here and limit all those who want to deal with politics. Zukorlic left, and I wanted only to add to him, the diaspora, they don't understand what this is about, is not a diaspora just a Serbian diaspora. By law, diaspora is all citizens of Serbia living abroad. So, there are two types of competitions for associations and organisations, can also be associations and organisations to report to competitions depending on the programme, not only must it be a Serbian diaspora. If that is enough, we are prepared to, since it now belongs to my ministry under some reorganisation, but it is perfectly normal that the Bosniak diaspora, if it considers Serbia to be the country of origin, will have equal status as the Serbian state. He's coming tomorrow, for example, Nicaragua. Here, now you've brought me back to it. The Minister of Nicaragua is coming tonight. I have a meeting with him tomorrow. Nicaragua voted for us. Nicaragua, it's being given against it now, and I need you to join me in condemning Nicaragua. What are we going to do? Do you understand? It's something that every country takes care of its own interests. If they didn't have double arches, they certainly wouldn't recognise Kosovo, because it's a completely single act that can't be applied to other countries, because they say it's a sui generis, meaning it's a special individual act. Here they acknowledge Kosovo for their own interests, and we now need to make moves that will cause us political damage. I apologize, but regardless of the EU, the EU is a strategic goal, but it is strategic enough to be far away, and this is something that is happening to us today. We have an obligation to join the EU to make a correction, i.e. to bring our foreign and common policy into line, and when we enter the EU and whether the EU will survive until then we will see, on a far stick. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59838	Thank you. Would you like a comment? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59839	The only thing that is when you choose friends that we have to decide at some point between who our friends are more important and who are less important to us. It's just that the world is pretty cruel and it's just as it is and we should always look at our interests and never make a mistake about what matters to us today, what's important for a year, what's important in five days, because such mistakes can sometimes come at a great price. It is not disputed, as long as you have the opportunity to have slightly more unusual friends who are useful, small countries with good diplomacy should use it, but you should have a nice measure and, in particular, calculate where these benefits are for us today, and where they are much greater benefits in the future. There's no exact math, but you can plan that thing pretty well. In fact, there is one thing that has been imposed on me, which is not going to be the conclusion don't give God as a match or something like that, it's irrelevant otherwise in a normal debate about the future, about the key problems that exist in Serbia, which is one question that constantly when we talk about our future flows and even when we are discussing these very EU issues, we somehow keep forgetting one thing. It is true that we will benefit and costs there, but in our discussions, let it be a question of thinking, who wants to think about it, a key question today that we need to give answers to, and what will we, like Serbia, bring in exactly, why will we be welcome? What is the quality of the specific that we bring in, that we can contribute to our future home? Is it just respect for what we have to adopt to be part of a big house? Do we have anything to offer to advance this house? And that's one question that we think a little bit about, and we're constantly busy with the stories that we're going to benefit from and what costs by accepting something that's in our best interest.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59840	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59841	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, dear ministers, my first question is for the Minister of the Interior, I don't like today's discussion, instead of all of you ministers talking about a report on work that's impressive, and we're complaining about several bacon workers who are always trying to do what this government and this country are doing to devaluate. I'm asking you to enforce the law. Are we afraid of the European Commission report so we can't arrest that bastard or can't find her for three days, who attacked a woman with a baby, and a woman isn't a public figure or her husband is a public figure? Can't we arrest bacon and bastards who threaten the children of the president of the Republic of Serbia? What kind of power are we? Ministers of the Interior will attack you every time you arrest a criminal group and do it skillfully and you don't have to fall for it. Today, Serbian citizens are waiting to hear what this government is going to do in the next period of time, to live better, to expect an increase, etc., you are all complaining. You're law enforcement. This government has a score. What European Commission? What is it called in France that someone is attacking the children of the president of Serbia and that someone is attacking the brother, the brother's own brother and his wife and the baby in the tunnel, etc.? The law must be applied and it is not the same, violence between two adults, it is violence that must be treated in the criminal part of violence against the baby and the mother. Do you know what ordinary people say? Hey, so let's not go out of the house, see what's going on, so this isn't the Middle East. Everyone does their job. You let the one with the saw get into RTS. Well, wait, of course they'll behave like that. Would you let him out of the UK, out of prison? No, you wouldn't. Would Angela Merkel let him go? No, you wouldn't. Would Makron let him go? No, you wouldn't. Would you let him out of America? Who are we getting our hands on, more? For you to know, the global policy of these countries is the same, unrelated to the personal change of individual towards Serbia. This country has a score, never again have criminals been arrested and drug dealers but in recent years, and that's what you've been doing. Every third day, they'll make something up. They'll make it up in ten days if you ride a goat and make excuses. You're enforcing the law of this country. One MUP is offering 500 thousand dinars who know this person to notify the MUP. With so much technique and cameras, I need someone to contact me now. If you don't have anyone to find, hire an international institution to find that bastard and punish himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59842	Thank you. Minister Stefanovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59843	First of all, like we found everything, and this Milicov when he ran off to China, after what happened on Brank's bridge, he thought we wouldn't find him, so we found him. We will bring everyone, anyone who has sinned against the law, to be struck by the state, and the state has no mercy for those who threaten women and children in any way. Not against drug dealers, not against these we will never show mercy, we will show determination, we will show respect for the law. This happened today, and we reacted immediately. I think my colleagues have already identified who this is. We'll see where those people are sending you from. To explain to the citizens, sometimes threats that are referred to the Internet can be sent out of our country. Sometimes those faces aren't in our country. We used to talk, I talked to people who asked me how it worked and why sometimes it wasn't faster. You contact, say, Facebook companies or Twitter, depending on which platform was used, and they say, according to our rules, this is not enough for an urgent response to the identification of the person who referred the threat. And there's nothing you can do against the company. We then, through our prosecutor's office, refer a request for international legal assistance to the host country where the company is located and it is legally available through the court for identification of the person who referred the threat. It takes a while. Unfortunately, when something is past our country, we do not have many mechanisms to influence us quickly. When it's in our country, of course it's incomparably faster. Of course, we identify everything. We are not interested in whom they are being threatened, since I have heard it from some in our community, for these you react, and for these you do not respond. No, I don't. We're responding to everything, absolutely everything. When the threat, when it threatens someone's safety, we react, the police arrest. We're handing over to the D.A.'s office, the courts are processing. What is true is that we once had a situation for courts to let go. I talked about it myself, I can't get involved in the work of the court, it's an independent branch of government. They do what they think they should and I fully respect it. I just begged them to always consider the social danger when we catch someone with a gun, when we catch him with drugs, what kind of message do we send to our children if we don't set a hold on him, if we let him defend himself from freedom? Why? He was found with a broken weapon, so what's going on with those guns at the market? He's on his way to kill someone. That's what we need to keep. First of all, the law here is very sharp, from two to 12 years old he can get that for illegal carrying of weapons. Let's not exactly give him a parole and that gig and stuff. Let's tell him sometimes six years, seven, ten, let the judge decide, but don't always give him a minimum. Give him a serious sentence, then the criminals will no longer carry illegal weapons. They'll be afraid of the hands of the law. I completely understand that, and I agree. You know my attitude is the same. Sometimes the police arrest someone, the court lets him defend himself from freedom. These processes then take years and people have a feeling, a feeling that nothing really happened. It doesn't matter, there's a verdict in five years, people have already forgotten. At that moment, they said, "You arrested him, he was released." People don't understand that detention isn't a criminal sanction, just a measure of security of that suspect in criminal proceedings to prevent him from affecting witnesses, to repeat the execution of a crime or to leave the country. But the public's always got a bad impression when you don't set someone up for arrest. It's something the police can't influence. We're trying to provide the best evidence, and that's how we're gonna do it. As far as this case is concerned, I couldn't agree more, it's monstrous. We have succeeded in school zones, working with children, teaching, preventive action, repressive action, protecting more of our children in cyberspace and in the real world and from drugs and from everything and we are always particularly sensitive when it comes to attacks on children. This was the case, and that's exactly why we decided, for two reasons, I'm going to tell you what they are, to call a cash prize. First of all, it's something that's been relatively undetectable in our country so far, that someone dares to follow their mother with a six-month-old baby. I don't know how she doesn't think she can make this woman feel stressed, she can do her harm by seeing that she's being followed by someone, some unknown people hanging around, intercepting her there, which is monstrous. You know, there's one fine difference, you can't do everything, you can't do it, it's just impossible. You know how to do that. Thousands of affairs were staged, all those who came to check and in the security services know, they can't do it without a court order. And the investigative journalist gives himself the right to intercept his mother with a baby, a investigative journalist under quotes, we still don't know which face this is. We still don't know which face this is, because obviously everyone's covering up the identity of this face. However, what is the possibility? There is a possibility that this person is not from our country, that he is not our citizen, that he is a citizen of one of the neighbouring states. That's why we decided to call the prize, because simply, if he hides in those countries, we may not have a face like that in the database based on our bases, on our data, and all that, and we may not know who he is. You've got someone coming for you, for example. from Bulgaria, someone from Montenegro or BiH comes to you, you don't have that face in the database. So, for those two reasons, we've defined ourselves as a cash prize, which doesn't mean the police don't work parallelly. So, we didn't rely on it, we made a reward call, so if anyone picks up. No, we do, but we wanted to use that signal to strengthen our chance to get to the identity of that person quickly and to show that justice can be applied, to see why he did it and whose account, why he followed that woman with the baby, who told him that he was doing it and what the purpose was, especially when it was a person who was not a public figure, who also has his rights, who has the right to security, privacy and everything else. It's something we have to show our public that such things are not allowed. And here I also support the National Assembly and all MPs who fight for it, to show that Serbia is a safe place to live, as it is, when you look at statistics, when you ask strangers. I say -- don't ask us, ask foreigners who live in Belgrade how they feel in their countries, about security, about how they feel in Belgrade, if anyone can walk Belgrade at two or three nights and whether they fear anything. I now tell you responsibly – they do not fear men. They're completely relaxed, normal, walking. We have a very small number of crimes that are committed, especially a small number against life and body. We have made serious progress in this and the police and the prosecution work every day to improve both technical and personal capacities to be more capable of fighting and having good results, but of course it does not mean that we are fully satisfied. I'll be pleased when we don't have any crimes. Of course, if that's realistically possible, I don't know, but we'll try to make that number as good as possible. I promise, these threats to the President of the Republic, or to his children, the monstrous threats, what was said and against his son and daughter, we will absolutely bring to an end. I think we already have the identity of the person who did this, but we'll wait for the end of the investigation, let's say the prosecution does the job. We will see if we will get a quick answer from Twitter and therefore have an unequivocally formal legal basis for entering the premises, providing evidence and bringing them in. We expect to be able to realize such a thing very quickly. I just want to call people. Why was that happening? It happened because of this hate speech. It happened because both Djilas and Jeremic and Obradovic do not miss every day to satanize Alexander Vukic and anyone who opposes them. And by Satanizing these people, in this case the President of the Republic and his family, you're basically giving people a kind of incentive to do some evil. Of course, then it goes counter spin immediately. When you say that, they say counter spin right away – well, we're threatened, and then press conferences, we get horrors. No one's head hair was missing, not at all. Where crimes took place, we arrested right away, we finished the job. It's not allowed to attack anyone in this country, it's illegal to threaten. And we immediately arrested, showed that the state was behind it, absolutely, that it was behind the rule of law. What is important, it is important that we refer to the citizens of Serbia -- you have the right to differ, this is a democratic society, a democratic country. You have the right to think about whatever you want and whatever you want. But please, forget the violence. No one is allowed to violence in this country. Forget the violence, forget the threats. Try your ideas to fight for the vote. It's just that some people don't want them to go. So, what do they have to do, take the street to kill us all so they can come to power? It can't. Come out, people, to the election. As Mr. Dacic said, some won't go to elections at any cost, because in the elections they'll get like in Luciani, below 10%, below the two-digit number. Then I can't explain, you know, that's the problem. If Gilas and these go to the polls and get 9%, 8%, there's a whole story about how the whole people are behind them and how they're most of the fall in the water. And for them, it's politically opportunized just to stay out of the election. That's why they're pushing the boycott, because when they don't go to the election, then they leave the illusion that we've gone out. You know, the elections in Serbia come between 53%, 54% and 56%, 57% of citizens, always back 100 years. It's never been 90 percent in the election. Never. Then you have, of course, an illusion and you say, yes, but here, 30, I don't know, 40 and a few percent of people, 43%, 44% of people didn't go to the election, and that's all of ours, of course, which is nonsense. We all know it's nonsense, but then it creates an illusion that there's some political power. How to have political strength when the only idea is hate and, secondly, return to the register, and none is very inspiring for citizens to vote you. None. Since that is the case, then the only story they can do is that they are not there, because here in the Assembly they would have to discuss the topics in which they themselves participated, they would have to answer the questions: why were corruption and why the EU marked us at the time of their government as one of the most corrupt countries, why those 24, of 224, privatisations were marked as a horror of Europe, how they were implemented in their time, why did they do nothing about it, why they physically liquidated members of the opposition Ranko Panic at the opposition's protest, was it the rule of rights and respect for democracy, why they went to control all the media? Why answer those questions? It's so much easier not to come. No arrival, no elections, come here, one press conference, then go to one of these exclusive destinations, now it's summer, they have to get people on ships, on yachts, on islands, in various cities to tour all of their properties that they have, to go through, that the dust doesn't collect, and, of course, they come back after five days, tanned, one press conference again. It's that hard work for the citizens. Someone has to face all the problems they've left us in the meantime. Thank God, the country's done a lot. This government and the president have done a lot for this country. The previous government, led by Aleksandar Vucic, and this government worked to reduce, firstly, to get out of the abyss that they pushed us to come to the point that we may not be able to pay our salaries and pensions, to have, not least, but indeed the biggest growth of all the countries in our region, the most convincingly largest, we have the highest unemployment rate reduction, that we have managed to increase employment, which is much more significant, and to continue to be attractive to investors, to compete here who will bring more factories, who will open more jobs. That's our job. I want to thank the MPs of the National Assembly, because without your support, not only formal, but also essential, without the adoption of good and quality laws, without serious work to create the country's reputation, along with the President and the Government, we could not succeed in this. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59844	Thank you. You have one more question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59845	A question for Ivica Dacic – what is Serbia's position on Ramush Haradinaj's behaviour in The Hague tribunal? Citizens just so they know it wasn't that Hague court that was for the Serbs. This is the court that was made for war crimes committed at the KIM by the U.K.C. What can we expect from African-Arab states in the next period of time, given that friendship began to return as it was 40, 50 years ago? It's a question for Mr. Lonchar. I want to thank you first for the quality and quantity of health care, but there's one small problem at the hospital in Kragujevac, because the entire forest district, when it's an emergency, goes there. When a patient happens on Saturday morning to have a heart attack, they say from the hospital -- we can't see you on Saturday and Sunday, because that's when it's intended for the people of Kragujevac. We've had several cases, not only in Jagodina, and in some other cities where people can't wait for Monday, but we've called Belgrade, Bojic, etc., so please answer me that question.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59846	Thank you. The word is Hansel Dacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59847	Since Dragan asked a question about Haradinaj and the KLA Crimes Court, as you remember, the court was formed on the basis of great pressure from the work of the international community following a report by Dick Marty in the Council of Europe on KLA crimes, organ trafficking, etc. He was somewhat initiated officially by the UN Security Council and accepted, with great pressure, by Kosovo representatives who have delegated these powers to the Netherlands, i.e. international prosecutors and judges to meet there. Is there anything you can expect from that? You saw the departure of Haradinaj turned into a political farce. He's turned into another wind in his back and he wants tomorrow, for tomorrow, I think, he's already failed, tried to schedule a cabinet session, but others have now declared that he's already resigned and he can't schedule any more cabinet sessions. So no one's even considering that question anymore why he was invited to make a statement in The Hague. We hope we don't say anything forward, but this ad hoc court, so-called. The Hague tribunal, which we so called, which tried for crimes in the former Yugoslavia, has not condemned any Albanians or convicted anyone of crimes against Serbs in KIM territory. Haradinaj killed all witnesses in the Western European countries. What is this protection of witnesses in Western European countries? One of them, as I recall, was killed in Germany. The question is how many living witnesses are still alive, but everyone knows it. Part of the international community was covering up evidence and we have evidence for it, covering up statements that the UN had at the beginning of the so-called event. The yellow house. So we don't have any too many expectations that justice will be served, but not to talk and not to prejudge things in advance. What is certain, the Serbian people and the Serbian state must never forget it, must never stop accusing anyone of it. Personally, I think our country made a mistake after 5 October 2000 when it withdrew some rulings against some international factors that bombed Yugoslavia, and we withdrew so they could visit, we withdrew against Solana so he could visit. It doesn't mean that everyone should have been so punished, but some who were so convicted did commit a war crime against Yugoslavia, according to Serbia, according to the Serbian people, towards all the citizens of our country. When it comes to this second issue, I have already said that we must pay attention to the overall structure of those organisations that make up the world's most important organisations, such as the UN. It has 193 UN members. Of that in Africa 54. You know, we have many of those countries that are on our side, and where no one has gone 10, 20, even 30 years. On the other hand, we have many countries with which I am only now working to establish diplomatic relations. I'll give you an example. Samoa, a country with the same voting rights as China, India, means, islands in the Pacific, has diplomatic relations with Kosovo, and has no ties with Serbia. Why? Because, I think, those of us who ran this ministry in the previous period, at the time of Vuk Jeremic and Tadic, were not simply interested. As I said, from the declaration of independence until 2012, we had a situation that 84 countries have recognised Kosovo. During our government, or, let me now say our authorities, I was not in those two years, but since I've been counting that number since I became foreign minister, so since 2014, 13 countries have withdrawn recognition, and seven countries have recognised Kosovo. In a day, two, I hope to be able to announce fourteen. You know, we've been correct, but they've been messing around a lot, the ones from Kosovo, they're getting a lot of praise. They think we're afraid that they're threatening us, we can't keep working on it now. And everything shakes our feet from how now Pacolli, Haradinaj, Thaci and others, they have a big day for Kosovo, etc. They ran for Interpol. They can't get into Chile because Chile doesn't recognize them as a state. They can come in with our passports, of course. They can come in if the Nebojsa can pass. I think they could come to Chile that way, let alone become members of Interpol. Although, in essence, they work very well with Interpol, because most of them are on Interpol warrants. In any case, our priority, apart from the EU, is that I am truly honest and open now, I am for the EU, but at the same time I am the most for Serbia, because we need to take care of our national and state interests and improve relations. It was an extraordinary visit to McCron, if I may say so, I apologize to the Prime Minister, not to take too much time. But President Vukic and President Makron made an extraordinary visit. It's a historicly important visit. Eighteen years have passed since the last visit of the French President. The last English prime minister to come to Serbia was Margaret Thatcher when Tito died in 1980. Boris Johnson was here. I hope he comes soon. The last American president in Yugoslavia was Jimmy Carter. I also don't think most of you were even born when it happened. How can we have strategic and partner relations with them? That's why it's necessary, and I think it's a big deal, so I'm happy to say, it's a big change... Here is Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, who was before the president of the Serbian Parliament, and a few years ago, when the president of parliament visited the United States, spoke with Nancy Pelosi, who was then also head of the House of Representatives, was then a democratic administration, or Obama administration, or Clinton, and Slavica asked – what is around Kosovo. Slavica told me that a few years ago. Their answer was the following, its answer – Kosovo, so what Kosovo, that is the final question for us. Nobody's seriously involved in this right now. That's what the third and fourth-row offices in the State Department are doing now. Today, Bolton, the Trump administration believes this issue is very important for the US's national and state interest and supports the compromise and believes Kosovo is not resolved. That's the result of this policy we've been leading together for the last seven years. That's what it takes to keep and make new friends, keep old friends, not lose any. What Dragan Markovic asked, in any case we will certainly take care to spread the number of countries coming here, and he has gone to the Greek sea and to the Egyptian sea. I expect now to expand the activities of Jagodina further – to the Pacific.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59848	Minister Lonchart.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59849	Mr. Markovic, I just checked with Director Suzdanovic in Kragujevac. No one's been returned on their record, but let's not get into the story. Absolutely, and since this weekend, it's certainly not going to happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59850	Thank you. You have a comment, MP Markovic, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59851	I thank Ministers Loncar and Minister Dacic. I just want to say a few more sentences about the international community's relationship with war crimes, as they call it, when it comes to Serbs and Kosovo Albanians because what happened yesterday in that newly formed court in The Hague, they deliberately formed it in The Hague so that the court would be for a respect, that citizens think it was the court that tried until a few years ago only to the Serbs, and only to realize that Ramush Haradinaj kept his mouth shut all the time while in terms of the suspect was being heard by judges. He didn't steal a tractor from the Serbian courtyard, so he kept quiet. In the book of Dick Marty, everything is exactly what Haradinaj and Hashim Thaci and we who deal with politics and not just us who deal with politics, and all other public figures, we need to be unique about the national issue. How is it that Kosovo Albanians, who are killing each other inter-partyly, when it comes to the national issue, are all together, and our opposition is looking forward to saying something against Serbia and saying -- it's Vukic, he's guilty, it's the police minister, Mali, the health minister, etc. Can we learn anything from other countries that have had a similar history as Serbia did? Albanians are the blood enemies of Serbia. The child when he is born they raise him that the Serb is his enemy and that he never has any relations with the Serbs, etc. Every week in Kosovo, there's a Serb family attack or an incident in a Serbian cafe... (President: I thank you. ( b) It was all foreshadowed by... How fast this time goes, people.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59852	It's a fast year. Thank you. The word has a letter from Olena Papuga.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59853	Thank you, President. I wanted to ask all my questions to the ministers resolutely, but since there is none I wanted to ask, I ask all questions to Prime Minister Ana Brnabic. The first question I wanted to ask Minister of Agriculture Branislav Nedimovic – how much for 2018 is the incentive paid for tractors and how much for agricultural machinery? How much has not been paid, why and when will it be paid? The state owes farmers milk premiums, for June and on various other grounds, money that is often a year late. Why? The second question I also wanted to ask Minister Nedimovic – did the Cinological Union of Serbia inform the Ministry of Agriculture that it had taken away the rights to produce and issue relatives in the business seat of the Vojvodina Kinological Union and why was this done? What are you going to do about the fact that the Vrbas municipality has persistently avoided the legal and constitutional obligation to introduce Montenegrin language into official use, given that all the conditions laid down for this are met? The law is very decadent and clear. He does not foresee any poll on whether someone speaks a certain language or does not like that language. The legal condition is the only one – it is the number of citizens on the list. I also ask – will the construction of the Fruskogorje corridor really begin in the fall? This is what I wanted to ask Minister Djordjevic. More than 13,000 mothers in Serbia are damaged by the application of the Financial Support Act to families with children. The minister said that the law would be amended, when would the law be amended? Will it be amended by September, will the new law be applied differently to moms?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59854	Thank you. The word is made by the Prime Minister, Ana Brnabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59855	Thank you. As for the incentives for agriculture, I must say that yesterday I was looking at the table, as I visited the Lucians and Požega, and that 98.2% of the total incentives were paid for in 2018. There's been some delay, which is why we're introducing e-Agrarian administration, so a completely electronic system, so that we can keep an eye on it, so that we can easily receive applications, that we can require people if we need additional documentation and pay faster. But right now, for 2018, if I'm not mistaken, I think 98.2% of the incentives are paid. I've now asked my team to send me that information, to have the exact number to pay. For this second question, I must consult with the Minister of Agriculture. As for Vrbasa and Montenegrin language in official use, here if this National Council of the Montenegrin National Minority has not addressed, I ask you to address it. I am also president of the Republic Council for National Minorities, so it is directly my job, to ensure that if the Montenegrin National Council has asked, that if there are all conditions, they get it. As for the Law on Financial Support for Families with Children, we have, after announcing that we will go to amendments and additions to the Law, had another meeting in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, with all relevant associations of parents and associations dealing with the issue of the family. We had one, it seems to me an open and constructive debate about what the intensity was, what are the faults of what we can fix. We've had good suggestions. On Monday, I had a meeting with ministers Djordjevic and Djukic Dejanovic and the Ministry of Finance, to go through different models, so we can further improve this law and how much fiscal effects will be. I expect we'll invite these associations to a meeting next week, to present. If you want, we can invite you to hear where we've come from, what we're working on, what are the ideas, so I think we'll go straight after this summer's break to the amendments and the additions to the law. I wouldn't agree with 13,000 women being damaged. I don't think you're talking about the number of women involved in the incentive system that's never been in the incentive system before. Maybe the Minister can say something about that. We'll certainly guarantee what I can, that we'll make that mistake that I think happened, that we shouldn't have done it like that, where it's for those women who have an average income, where the average is three instead of five, that we'll make it right. We're also looking at the financial effects that if we cut the pay average from 18 to 12, let's see how we can ensure that those women who receive 800, 1,000 or 2,000 dinars with that average, whether we go to minimum wage, for the first three months or a year, but that's all we're going to present at that meeting next week. So I'm calling you, I'm sure I'll enroll myself to come. As far as tractors are concerned, let me tell you, for tractors for 2018, an escort of 2.3 billion dinars. More than 1,600 tractors were purchased. In fact, 1682 tractors exactly, of which is 150 from IPARD and now everything is paid off which was budgeted for 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59856	Thank you. The word is Slavica Djukic Dejanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59857	I thank you for your interest in this matter. The Prime Minister has actually presented the essence of everything the government is doing. Of course, the issue is interdisciplinary, but I must say that by law that has caused many controversy for the first time so much right that for the first time those children who have given birth to mothers who are working on a contract in part, who are doing temporary and occasional jobs, farmers, for the first time even with women who are in a permanent working relationship. So the extent of the right is absolutely increased, the amount of money absolutely in a huge increase. What we're working on right now, aware that no matter how many rights we increase for this sensitive segment, it's never enough and it can always be more and we'll work on it. The financial potential is in line with the estimates of what we really need to do. It's not true that 13,000 moms are damaged. There are different bases by which the mom family, or standard of children, provides that percentage and the number is slightly smaller. One of the information that came out of the government is falsely interpreted, and it doesn't answer the truth, but in any case, in the autumn session, we'll have the opportunity to correct everything that's possible, and we've seen some mistakes. Thanks for asking.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59858	Thank you. The word is Olena Papuga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59859	Thank you. You have not answered me for the French Corridor and the Kinological Union of Vojvodina. I want to tell you that as far as the official use of language and letter is concerned, national advice should not be made public. It's not a national council job at all. It's a job of a municipality whose territory needs to be introduced into a language that needs to be officially used. So, in the Vrbas municipality, more than 7,353 people have reported themselves as Montenegrins, and that is 17.5%. So, the Vrbas municipality is bound by any obligation under the Law on official use of language and letter under the obligation to introduce that language. Nine years ago, the Mali Ijoš municipality, where Lovčenac and other villages predominantly populated by Montenegrins, had no problem introducing Montenegrin language into official use, and Vrbas did not introduce it for nine years. So he's not at all on the national council to decide. This determines the Law on official use of language and letters and municipalities should do so. For the Kinological Union, please answer me – why is the Kinological Union of Vojvodina, which has a 70-year tradition, in some ways? Simply the president of the Kinological Union came from Belgrade, took the seal, etc. It's probably good money that just won't be given to the Duke's Kinological Union. You have also not answered whether the Fruscogorian Corridor will begin to build in the autumn, for it is Vojvodina, Novi Sad. Cut off in some way from Belgrade and other parts of Serbia, because we know that the Belgrade-Budapest track is in construction. The residents are damaged by simply having no way to make it to 2022. So, three more years, you'll be building a railroad. Buses weren't introduced, so no more buses were introduced. Passengers have to travel by bus at some higher prices, because the railways don't work, and all the transport that used to go by rail and that freight transport was aimed at road traffic, so that through Fruska Mountain and there is evidence that it was overloaded, that up to 12,000 vehicles passed daily through the Irish Wreath and through Irig. Now it is certainly more, so I ask you, will Minister Mihajlovic really start building the Fruskogorian Corridor from autumn?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59860	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59861	I'm sorry, it's true. I skipped the question of the French Corridor. I hope it starts in the last quarter of this year. We're doing everything we can, as far as taking credit, borrowing, designing, it's certainly only a matter of months now when the French Corridor will start to build. As far as solving this problem is concerned, I must tell you two answers. First, you have to do it if you want to modernise the railways. I don't know how you want to modernise them without shutting them down. I really don't know how any other country did it. So that's something we all have to endure together, unfortunately. I would also much prefer that we didn't have to do it, and if we had already had that modern railway, because that would mean that at this point we don't have to deal with diesel locomotives that we don't have enough to open other rail crossings, alternatively, that our economy suffers, and it would be easier and more politically whether we said -- well, let's put it off, let another government do it. Because right now, he's holding a barrel of water until the masters leave. It is irresponsible and I hope you will agree that it is okay that we are going to make this real capital investment to create a fully modern reconstructed railway between Belgrade and Kelebija, or Belgrade and Budapest. But for that, we had to close that railroad and that's it. As far as the French corridor is concerned. So it's a matter of months before we build the Fruscogorian Corridor, but the Fruskogorian Corridor won't be finished in six months, so it'll be an alternative. It's going to be some work, it's a serious project that's also going to take years. As far as road traffic is concerned, we're trying to make it as easy as we can, I almost passed there, I didn't feel it was that much of a burden, but again, I'm not relevant, I don't live there. So if you have any idea what further we can do, but the French Corridor we'll start working for the next few months, but it won't be an answer to the question of how people will move more easily with the Vojvodina. Believe me, I'm yesterday, it's nothing to do with it, do you know how many people there are going to be, I read an interview with Dragan Gilas in a weekly "Nin", which man says, I couldn't believe, I think that, Thursday is today, today he's out, where a man says, when I talk about the French Corridor and we talk about how much investment, how much investment we invest, when he's going to go, when a man says, no problem, he says – I don't know why the Moravsky Corridor is building? The Moravia Corridor is completely unnecessary for Serbia. It's a waste of money. Moravia corridor, unnecessary for Serbia? Do you know how much, say, the Moravia Corridor is even more necessary than the Frushkogorian Corridor? So, people living in the Kingdom, in Vrnjačka Banja, Trstenik, Kruševec, Cicevic, they do not need the highway. You don't know how to get here today, and I've said it a hundred times, you don't know when you start from Nis to Užice, you don't know which way to go. You have a leader of the opposition who says - the Moravia Corridor is not needed for the Republic of Serbia, and then we have here when you will start with the French Corridor. So, just a minute, excuse me, really just a little patience until we get to all the places, because after all, you have people who would today... They were in power for ten years, so they didn't build any of those roads, they didn't plan them, and now we know why. Here, yesterday when I read that interview, I realized for the first time that it wasn't even money, that the money was going for something else, that there were no projects or that they started projects so they didn't get to finish them. It's people who think it's all unnecessary for Serbia, that it doesn't matter to the citizens of Serbia. What do Serbian citizens need corridors for? What do they need highways for? They didn't deserve it, the people of the King, Vranjska Banja, they didn't deserve the highway. Why do you need the Moravia Corridor people? So we have come to the fact that you have to finish both designing and funding and selecting performers and see how it is in the best interest of the Republic of Serbia, and the biggest problem is that you have money for it. Now we've got it all and it'll be in the next few months. As for Vrbasa again, I mentioned, I didn't even say it was a decision by the National Council of Montenegro's national minority, it's certainly a decision of local self-government. But to raise it to a republican level, as you ask me to, as a national MP, so it serves the Republic Council for National Minorities and therefore serves among other things the National Council of the Montenegrin National Minority. Because if they can't agree with local self-government, then that national council will raise it to the level of the Republic Council for National Minorities. Because we'll agree, so I can't as Prime Minister know what's going on in every local self-government and every national council for every national minority. That is why the institution of the Republic Council for National Minorities, which everyone, including the European institutions, particularly the Council of Europe, commended. Because there's an institutional mechanism that we're talking about. Okay, now you've got my attention, but when I say it's something that's very easy to end because we have an institutional mechanism, which is constantly meeting. If you believe me, I think that in 2009 to 2014 he met once, once. We have four months of meetings. So it's easy to institutionally solve it at this point. As far as this Kinological Union of Vojvodina is concerned. Is the Kinological Alliance of the Duke's NGOs or institutions? So, in any case, I will check with Minister Nedimovic and see if it concerns the republican government or the province government again, whose jurisdiction it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59862	A comment.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59863	Thank you. The kinological alliance is under, I say, the administration of the Ministry of Agriculture, so that's it. No one is contesting the construction of all roads and all that is done in the Republic of Serbia, nor am I challenging the fast track that is being done, in the full swing is Budapest. So, me and the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina, we're not against what it's all about and how much it's about, but I just don't think we respect the priorities, that simply the Fruskogoric Corridor, it's also talked about being in the fall, in the spring, I don't know when, since 2016. You've been in power for seven years, so I just think that the people of Vojvodina have been thinking that the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry, government is not the priority of the French Corridor because for years, it's been promising them since 2016, and they may simply be skeptical of that. So, there's no question about what's going on, but what's being promised is being challenged, and it's not done. Simply, for everything we said that Vojvodina had been cut off, citizens felt that there would be some alternatives that perhaps they hadn't made, perhaps more buses should have been introduced, perhaps they should have been more favourable prices for people travelling from Novi Sad to work in Belgrade, etc. I think it could have helped the citizens, if for three, four years they won't have the opportunity to travel on a rail that's cheaper than a bus. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59864	Thank you. We still have room for Grozdana Banac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59865	Thank you, Madam President. I wanted to ask, first of all, the Prime Minister that the resolution ministries, not all of them, but mostly all the answers for MPs, give to their associates who, as far as I can see, are not very professional. Then, on a re-insistence basis, a little bit of evidence, I would ask that when you have meetings in the government, you ask the minister to really pay attention to their associates and really not to have your answers -- it can be, but it doesn't have to. I wanted to ask you something. Please, I have a few answers personally, and they have my colleagues, and it doesn't matter now. I wanted to ask you and ask you if... Everyone has questions, I apologize, you can't hear me if you talk to ministers.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59866	No, no, the Prime Minister is listening to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59867	No problem, please. As far as regional development is concerned, in general, if we think we have these young people left behind, then we have to have some conditions to give them so that these people stay on that ground, to work that land, to process it, etc. I wanted to ask you if you were thinking about the infrastructure of our country of Serbia. You know very well what the situation is in the field, I don't have to tell you, you've been alone, you're leaving every day. Have you even considered this infrastructure with Mrs Zorana Mihajlovic, whose portfolio is it? A lot of things, she's building up that it's not her portfolio, we can talk, I'll show you her answers, etc. That's what I wanted to ask you. I would also like to ask Minister Stefanovic. I see Palma's... No problem. May I ask Mr Stefanovic, to ask you, since he has a problem with Vozdovac, the Vozdovac Police Administration has provided the prosecution with a problem that concerns the highway along the front row. I don't know if they've identified that face that's done enormous damage to people, it's on Ozren Street, it's made way on the green surface, it's cut down the trees, it's about Mr. Trivan. So all ministries should be virtually networked. I'm just asking the nicest if you can check it out.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59868	Thank you. You'll get answers. Mr. President, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59869	Let me just go back to this for a little while - you've been in power for seven years, so there are some priorities that need to be known. I agree with you. That's what I thought until, right to tell you, at the invitation of Alexander Vukic, I entered the government and became Minister for State Administration and Local Self-Government, then the Prime Minister. And then you look that not that you can't know the priorities, but you don't know where it's playing, given how much nothing has been done and how much nothing has been done, so you say, it's my priority to put out the fire. Of those seven years in power, two years even though they were hard fiscal consolidation measures that took at least three years to deliver results. Let me just tell you, then, three years to get results. We were three months away from bankruptcy, that was a priority. There was – e, he became Alexander Vucic the Prime Minister in 2014, let's build a Fruskogorski corridor. Well, from where? The country is in front of bankruptcy. From where? You have no pension to pay. From where? You have no salary for doctors, for the army, for the police, the police torn up, no shoes. Now, where's the Fruscogorian Corridor now, for seven years you've been in power? So we had to stabilize the country first, make macroeconomic stability, have money, and then finish what started five decades ago, Corridor 10, Corridor 11 continue, make a project for the French Corridor, fix regional roads, start putting health care on its feet, so people worked in Polish hospitals. So ask only in Vojvodina, and you know how many scanners there were in Vojvodina. How many scanners were there? How many magnetic resonances were there only? And that's as much as it costs. Well, no, of course not. Now it's easy to say – you've been in power for seven years, you haven't started the French Corridor yet. Well, yes, for seven years, we've all been in power together, so today we have macroeconomic stability and surplus in the 21 billion dinar budget, instead of deficits, and reduced public debt to 51% of GDP and, finally, sustainable GDP growth last year 4.3%, I hope this year 3.5% or a little bit higher, so we've lowered unemployment below 12%, and it was over 25%, so just finished the southern arms of Corridor 10, we're finishing the eastern leg now. Are we ending on August 15th, Corridor 11, opening from Obrenovac to Cačka? So did we start in May doing Preljina-Požega, from Chuck to Požega? So we should leave in September for the Moravsky Corridor, which Dragan Gilas says is absolutely unnecessary, unnecessary. What do the people of the Kings want with a freeway, please? Why do people from Vrnjaka Banja highway? Who cares about their tourist potentials? So we started modernising Belgrade-Budapest. So don't tell me, please, just – it seems like Vojvodina isn't a priority. And you also know that today's budget separates much more than 7% for Vojvodina. So Novi Sad Science and Technology Park is fully financed from the republic's budget, Serbia's Clinical Centre from a loan taken by the Republic of Serbia. So don't just say yes, but how long we've been waiting. Well, of course we've been waiting, we've all been waiting together, and Zrenjanin and Novi Sad and Nis, but it's not our fault. As far as ministers' advisors are concerned, honourable MPs, I absolutely don't agree to that and I don't accept that we have unprofessional people, I absolutely don't agree to that, and I absolutely don't accept that. Because they would not do so many things with unprofessional people, and all the citizens of the Republic of Serbia see how much we have done and how much we do, and that would be impossible with unprofessional people. Are they all the best in the world and professional? No, I don't. After all, I would also like to have a budget like this in the future, and if we continue like this, we will have those more skilled people or people who don't work at all just volunteering or out of love for the country, to stay in the state administration and with it. But I think people do their best, I think we have, especially in the cabinets of ministers, very good people, who do good work, try hard, we have good secretary of state, good and experienced assistant ministers, and I don't think it's right and it's not fair to say anything at all – please let the ministers have more professional people. No, I don't think that without those people, without us as a team, we wouldn't be able to achieve all of this right now. As far as regional development and infrastructure are concerned, I still can't believe how you can ask me. So if you see anything, then you see these paths. If you see anything, you can see those paths. So who do you think we're building them for? For us? For Belgrade? Who do you think we're building them for, if we don't encourage regional development, that every village is important, that every municipality is important? Ten days ago, I was in the village of Tmava, in the municipality of Kursumli, because a pensioner spoke to me, because local leadership wasn't fast enough for 150 meters. Because I want to say to these local managers that every citizen is important, that every municipality is important, that every village is important and that we fight for all of them. When did you before Alexander Vukic and our government have a government that deals with every single citizen, who corresponds to the pensioners from Kursumli to e-mails, to calls, to fight every day, and ask me about roads and regional development? So where's Corridor 10, so where's Corridor 11? We're starting the Moravia Corridor. How many networks of local roads are there? Well, I was personally going to walk the path between Ratche and Lapov, to tie the Racha municipality directly to Corridor 10. It's all done, it's all done. I don't understand how you ask me such things. For the last two years, more than 150km of highways have been built. Well, that's regional development. Connecting all primary schools in Serbia to the internet within the Academic Network of Serbia, which was done in the previous two years, so that is regional development. So I don't know what else to do to show how important regional development is to us, especially in the area of infrastructure. Please once again, a little respect for those people who work really hard and do their best. I say, if we always say to ourselves that we can do better and we have to do better, because Serbian citizens can't wait, we have to move faster, but, people, we say that to ourselves, all those people who work side by side with us every day that this country is going faster and that our citizens live better and according to how much potential they have and how much they deserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59870	Ambassador Grozdana Banac has the right to comment. Here you go. That's what we'll end up with.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59871	I'm sorry, maybe we're exhausted, maybe we didn't get along. Please, the infrastructure isn't just about roads, so I guess it's about shops, so I guess the doctor needs the mail, too, so I guess the coffee shop needs somewhere where your youngsters can spend their time. You don't think they're just gonna sit on the ground and work, walk down the road and come back down the road? And it doesn't matter, thank you anyway. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-25-0.u59872	Thank you, MPs. Thank you to all ministers, Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you, everyone who participated in the debate. Since it's now 19.00 hours, we're finishing today's session. We'll continue tomorrow's session at 10:00 p.m. by discussing amendments to a law that's on the agenda.
