ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53201	Thank you. It's a question for Alexander Wolf. I ask the question - before promising that the state would invest 8.5m euros for the expansion of the airport runway at the Lađevci Airport, near Kraljev, had full information from Prime Minister Ana Brnabic and the Minister of Construction, Transport, the infrastructure of Zorana Mihajlovic? Whoever gave the information to Vukic, the data is absolutely incorrect, because his promise is an unnecessary cost in the Republic of Serbia's budget. Shipjevci Airport was trafficked as a civilian on October 5th 2011. He was officially released in traffic by Boris Tadic and Dragan Sutanovac. Even then, there is no economic justification at this airport and so on. Tertial air traffic is only costable in rich countries with gross national income of $18,000 per capita, and Serbia is of course far from it. Besides, Nis Airport is the best indicator that the government, in the area of air traffic, is running the wrong and very bad policy. Aleksandar Vukic received from his associates and, of course, presented another incorrect data, which is that he will invest 8.5m euros just in the expansion of the runway, because the Boing brand planes cannot land on the boat. However, that is absolutely incorrect, because technical opportunities for using a runway at this airport exist for the "Boing" brand aircraft. The pisces are already 2,200 metres long, and it is 30 meters wide. So, it's enough that "Boing" can turn on the runway, and according to the official prospectus, "Boinga" has enough runway width of 19.81m. It is obvious, therefore, that the runway of the Ships is significantly wider than the required width for the landing of the Boing aircraft. In addition, along the entire runway on the Ships, there is a wide 60 - foot [60 m] track and planes could use that track and eventually turn around. There are several such airports in Europe for frequency traffic, such as the Shipman Airport and such, in fact, never will be in the Boats. These are, for example, Santorini airports, Skiyatos, Zakintos, etc. These are smaller and narrower airports than those they say require an additional 8.5m euros. So, Alexander Vukic's promises that the state will invest 8.5m euros to expand the runway at the Shipzevic Airport are harmful, and such an investment is inadequate and unnecessary. It would be wiser for the King to invest 8.5m euros in a farm in which no one has invested for decades and does not know that the King can be a very good agricultural potential at all. So we ask Vukic - who gave him this incorrect information, who gave him this information and who gave him this incorrect information that he went public with, will he be responsible and will he suffer the consequences?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53202	The word is made by MP Boban Birmancevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53203	Dear Chairman, honourable fellow MPs, I ask my first question to the Ministry of the Interior and the Prosecutor's Office, and it refers precisely to Dragan Gilas and to the continuation of the dissemination of disinformation and lies, first of all to what he said, which is that in the elections, which would now be organised, there will be incidents and violence, and that is simply the continuation of that ideology, the ideologies which are now their newest leader, in the absence of leaders, the leader of their opposition, and the known fascists, but this is essentially their problem, is not the problem of Serbia. I'm also asking the Home Office and the D.A.'s office to do something about Dragan Gilas. Have the D.A. call him, find out what it is, whether or not he has any other problems, but I'm not an expert on it. What is important is that it is necessary to protect the state from Dragan Gilas and the people who are currently hiding behind fascist ideology, ideologies that have never been accepted in Serbia and will never, and on this day, no one but that group of citizens gathered around Dragan Djilas and Bosko Obradovic. I also ask the MUP and the prosecutor's office, but also the foreign ministry, and it concerns the shameful visit of the mayor of Zapco Nebojska Zelenovic and the president of the meeting, Nemanja Pajic. They were in Peca, here in this picture is where they are just sitting under the flag of an unrecognized and non-existent state of Kosovo and I invite them and the prosecution and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to finally do something about it. In their betrayal, Gazbet Mudcheri, mayor of Peci, was especially grateful to the traitors from Serbia. There is no greater betrayal than the betrayal of his country. This same mayor, and in this picture this man is half masked with a black hat on his head is the man who first broke in with the fascist and Ljovico Bosko Obradovic. This same man, after that, continued his incursions, wasn't enough for them. I am asking the MUP and the prosecution – is something done against Nebojja Zelenovic, Bosko Obradovica and all those who first raided Lucane at the police station? If something had been done then these same people wouldn't have been in these photos at RTS where they continued violence and threats, especially the security of these people in RTS, but also the security of the citizens and the security of the state? My third question is addressed to the MUP and the prosecution, and it concerns Mayor Nebojsa Zelenovic and his employer, Dusan Petrovic. The Supreme Court's ruling in Sapac condemned the mayor for abuses in spending a budget of 5m euros. My question is whether and whether or not those who have ordered the abuse of 5m euros and those who have abused and washed the funds for their employers, Dusan Petrovic and Nebojsa Zelenovic, and on the other hand, will be prosecuted or Serbian. And what's special and I'm going to end with that is the question of whether and in any way, and is there any process being conducted just against people who until a few years ago, or until the change of government in Vojvodina, are they going to exercise long-standing power? Is it possible that we are not yet informed of who the processes are being conducted and, among other things, the processes that led to the destruction of the economy, agriculture and the future of Vojvodina? It will take a very long time for the current government to move and advance Vojvodina. They are on a good track, but we owe the citizens of Vojvodina, the citizens of Serbia information against which of the high-ranking officials of the yellow company in Vojvodina are conducted processes and when these processes will see the light of day, and the citizens get accurate information about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53204	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53205	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues, I would also ask a specific question about our agricultural producers, for people who pay agricultural pensions, i.e. insurance right through agriculture, or pension insurance through agriculture and health insurance, and it is only a matter of reminding me that in Serbia in 1986 it started with the activity of paying off agricultural insurance, where it was done during that period and that the repayment rate was about 5%. By 2008, when the law was passed during the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic, and we also talked about it at a meeting last week on Friday, where the law was then passed and some things were changed to the damage of our agricultural insurance companies. Otherwise, as I said in 1986, when this social pension insurance payment started through agriculture, a large number of people who were once owners of the land were reporting their hosts for members of the land, but there were also representatives of the local community, the heads of the local offices enlisted themselves in that land that they were members of the land, and that people didn't even know it. Meanwhile, people were paying social and pension insurance through agriculture, most of these people retired and normally, it was good because these farmers now have some pension to survive a situation. But in 2008, the government of Mirko Cvetkovic and then the Assembly passed a law that made the situation worse for our agricultural insurance companies. In particular, in the context of that law since 1.1.2009, the first increase in the rate of payment from 5, to close to 26%, where the rate for agricultural insurance companies and businesses and on the other hand, which is very important, a large number of people who then retired were left with some debt which was passed in 2008, when the law was passed and this debt was transferred from 1.1.2009 to all members of the land that later grew a great deal. People didn't even know they had that debt, so they came up with a million-dollar figure. For one agricultural insurance company living in the territory of Srljiga, Bela Palanka, Gajino Han, in the territory of southeastern Serbia, this debt in some cases reaches over two million dinars. I have information that we will get into solving these problems and I am sure that this government and our president will solve these problems, that these people who have made such a debt, not their own fault, but the error of the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic, these people now have big debts, big problems and these people now have to help. I hope so, and I'm sure we'll do it together, because a few days ago, the health minister suggested that we sit down and talk and invite the relevant people who are going to work on it, to solve these problems together, because the real debt that is great is bigger every day. On the other hand, comparison specifically, farmer insurance and entrepreneur who, for example, has a construction store, has ten workers, X machines doing construction work, paying them the same base. I think we need to change that. I'm sure we'll find opportunities, I'm sure there'll be an opportunity to reprogramme the debt, write off the interest, and keep our agricultural insurance companies on paying and can sleep peacefully. I am sure that we will do this together, because this government and the president of Serbia are working to make it good for our agricultural producers and workers both in southeastern Serbia and throughout Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53206	Thank you. Do any of the other presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wish to request a notice and an explanation in accordance with Article 287? Rules of Procedure? (No) I am now setting a five-minute break until I enter the room of the authorising officer. [[After a break.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. I would like to inform you that the session was prevented from being attended by MP Djordje Milicevic. We continue the search in detail on item 2 of the agenda – Proposal for a Health Protection Act. In accordance with Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the session has been invited to attend Dr. Zlatibor Loncar, Minister of Health with Associates. The 21st amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, colleague Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53208	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have intervened on Article 21, we have asked specifically to delete Article 2, because the position of the 1st member speaks of a ban on discrimination, while the second position of this same member prescribes the possibility of discrimination, and that is what the representatives of the Government explain and justify some positive discrimination, and discrimination cannot be either positive or negative, but it is discrimination. Here, the minister doesn't know, he's been giggling there and saying hello, so now he doesn't know what it's about. Article 21 of the law, we're looking for a second-seat delete. Article 1 refers to the prohibition of discrimination, and the 2nd point states that there may be discrimination when it comes to members of a group of persons who are in an unequal position. This formulation is too wide, this formulation is legally inadmissible and it allows you to declare anyone tomorrow as a group in an unequal position and give some privileges based on that particular group. I don't like the order when you're counting here, you want me to wait and stop the time of Arsic, so you can get the information from the associates you need, so we can move on? So here you're saying, a ban on discrimination in providing health care based on, so first it goes half gender, sexual orientation, and birth identity. When you list the basics of discrimination, I think you should start with the most important ones. These certainly are neither the most important nor the most numerous, but they speak about what your intentions are and what direction this will go in the future. Much more important are the basis for discrimination based on age, it can't be discrimination based on age, but it's said by years of life, if we're going to be legally, then it says, national belongings, social origin, religion, political and other beliefs, property, culture, language, health, type of disease, these are much more important grounds. I'm afraid, Mr. Minister, that you are introducing to a small door something that you will abuse precisely because of this, as you say, your birth identity, sexual orientations and other things that the citizens of Serbia do not want. One of the news that we saw today is that in England, a homosexual couple, or one of them, gave birth to a child, while at the same time the granddaughter's mother, was an egg from his sister, and he was a father. So brothers and sisters make babies, and their mother gives birth to them. In line with the standards of the Serb people, it is completely sick, it is the opposite of everything Serbian society rests on. I'm afraid that's exactly what you're going to say, I'd say sick phenomena, declare such people as members of a group that is in a subordinate position. It cannot be what is contrary to nature, which is the opposite of religion, which is contrary to everything most of the citizens of one country advocate, declare as members of a group that is in a subordinate position, or in an unequal position. Without restrictions on how you or someone else will do it after you, this is the attitude of a law that can be deleted, because it gives an unlimited practical possibility of abuse either to you or to someone else in your place, which is something that a serious state, a serious nation and a serious National Assembly cannot allow.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53209	She is a colleague of Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53210	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, fellow Members and MPs, Chapter IV of the Health Protection Act defines the basic principles of health care. The abovementioned Article 23 defines the principle of justice which is one of the basic principles in providing health care. The position of the first of this Article 21 defines the prohibition of discrimination. Article 2 of this Law defines what is not considered discrimination, and these are all the actions and measures taken in the framework of health care to protect marginalised social groups. Among others, they are people with disabilities. Of course, no arbitraryness is allowed, nor is it left to guess. This is the law, the sublegal act defines the exact group of persons, i.e. individuals where an increased coverage is envisaged for the absence of any discrimination. What I particularly want to emphasise, and what is foreseen under Chapter IV of this Law, is a new principle, which is the principle of respect for the child in health care. Namely, it is the child's right to health care must comply with the most modern and best standards in health care, that procedures must be respected and that the child must be protected from all forms of abuse, neglect, exploitation, or by the competent healthcare professional to recognise all the measures and actions that may indicate child abuse. It is also envisaged that children, pregnant women, maternity parents, but also sensitive groups of people in the old category enjoy the right to best health care. I have to mention one more thing, unlike the yellow tycoon company that robbed citizens, but robbed children and distracted children, for example in mental development, the SNS authorities, this government and the president of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, and how significant attention is paid to improving health conditions, treating all citizens, and above all here I want to stress, the treatment of children. I must point out that the University Children's Clinic of Tirshov, which is one of the most significant children's treatment facilities, not only in Serbia, but also in the former Yugoslavia, but also in the Balkans, has been one single dinar for more than 40 years not invested in its reconstruction. For the first time since the arrival of SNS, 7.5 million dinars have been invested for reconstruction of the University Children's Clinic. Also, 54m euros are planned to build a new Tirshova University Children's Clinic 2. Also, this government, President Aleksandar Vukic, and what attention they give to other children's clinics, or clinics where children are treated. I must stress the Institute for Mother and Child, where significant funds have also been invested for the reconstruction of this facility, but 20m euros are also foreseen for further adaptation and improvement of health conditions. The improvement of infrastructure and how important it is to improve children's health. Health care is a concern for the future, and therefore this law and all legal provisions are part of a comprehensive health care reform process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53211	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr. Zlatibor Loncar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53212	Thank you. You've managed to really explain one part of these dilemmas that were, but simply for the citizens' sake we say, precisely for this reason that you said that there might be abuse these things and they're precise, so there's no abuse. Here when you think something is said, it's just that it's about women and men and being represented, it's the only data that goes and can be obtained, whether it's a woman or a man, to have a sufficient number of women represented, for that very reason. That's the essence of the story. The other thing is, I heard that example you cited from England. I gotta tell you, we're a long way from England and all that stuff, so there's no room to worry about or worry about. We have our own way. We're not in Bregzite, we're not in other things, we're in a responsible way with our own people, and that's why we pass laws like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53213	Right on line, MP Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53214	Mr. Lonchar, part of what we heard earlier, I don't think it has anything to do with my amendment. So, did the lady make a mistake, you listening to her and you headed the same way, but the amendment I suggested has nothing to do with it. Another thing, to say that there is no reason to worry and that we are far from England and far from Bregzit, unfortunately, far from Bregzit we are, but Bregzit should right now be a guideline in which direction Serbia should move. If England, as a country founder of the EU and a country that is certainly among the three countries that have the greatest influence in the EU, if they have found that they cannot achieve their national and their economic interests within the EU because, you will admit, only Germany can, or only Germany in full, then the question is what will small, poor and politically very little influential Serbia be able to do in that union. I don't think we're going to be there, and, by any miracle, if we came in 20 or 30 years from now, we wouldn't have any influence, and that's not our interest. As for the example from England, which you say we are far from it, it's not a guarantee. You know, the Minister's word in the debate in particular doesn't mean much, it goes into the wind. He'll stay somewhere in the archives and transcripts, but it needs to be in the law, to prevent the possibility of abuse by legal text, not by your declaration. Tomorrow may be the second minister in your position. One more thing should not be forgotten, that Tony Blair is someone who advises the government of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, it is not so far from us and it is not true that it is not a real threat that something similar will happen in Serbia in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53215	Thank you. The 29th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Despotovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53216	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment to the SRS has proposed, and I will, frankly, Mr Minister, draw attention to the smaller environments with huge problems, when it comes to health care. In the municipalities of southwestern Serbia, Prepolje, Nova Varoš, Priboj, Sjenica, which belong to the Network of the Health Centre Užica, health institutions are in an uninvited position to adequately provide quality health care. The minister won't listen to me. These underdeveloped municipalities do not seek charity or donations, as provided for in Article 17 of points 23 and 24, but rather seek to ensure that the state respects the principle of health care. They then face professional staff problems, where there is a contract only for the Užice Health Centre with a summary staff plan and standards of the Republic Health Insurance Fund. The hospital and the home of health are not recognized, the problem is with the staff leaving on various grounds, and the new one is not received. And the bigger problem is that back in 20 years in that hospital, the Prepolje state didn't provide new technology, where there's, say, a scanner, which I've been talking about recently, there's no X-ray to record the lungs, then the central oxygen supply, but the bottles are filling up in the King. The project exists, but the realization has stopped somewhere on the Belgrade-Uzice route. Such a project would be worth two years later. In addition to such technical problems, there is also a problem of health care. Since employment bans are in place, it is difficult to provide physical security and preserve the property of the institution, as well as the safety of patients and health workers. According to the Security Act, a contract should be concluded with one of the agencies providing physical and technical security services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53217	The People's Messenger, Michaelo Jokic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53218	I think this is the point where it should be said that in 2018, much more has been invested in the RFO than in 2017, that the RFO has received about 121 billion, that this is for 14.8 billion more than in 2017, that it is 13.8% more than in 2017. So these are huge assets that are being invested, and that consumption in 2018 has increased by 8.7% compared to 2017. So the percentage of the increase in health care is much higher than the increase in expenditure at the state level. So, one concern raised for the health care of the population has been shown, and these laws that have been passed, they have been brought to solve all the practical problems that have arisen at the moment. These practical problems are the relation of the RFO-health institution, secondly, the relation of local self-government and general hospitals, meaning those institutions that are under the authority of the Republic. So it is possible for local self-government to participate in reducing the costs of health institutions. For example, in these judgments, the tax rulings are mentioned. Here's to Valyev. In 2007, a wrong special collective agreement was brought on the basis of a general collective contract, and doctors have started suing a health care facility since 2012, i.e. the hospital now, because the health center no longer exists. In the last three years, the hospital has paid for these expenses, I just don't know how, from which, 32 million, in the last three months, they've had to pay the workers who've sued, so the former health center, four million, and that's the problem that's still coming up, because new lawsuits are expected. These are some things where local self-government could and would have to help, and this law is made possible. I think that after these laws, a solution and resolution of all the ongoing problems that are currently plagued by health insurance and health institutions throughout Serbia are expected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53219	Thank you. The 33rd amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? Here's a colleague of Damjanovic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53220	The minister, as in this law, and even in previous talks, is always talking about quality protection, and even in this, of these members, it potentials, so I ministers, as someone who has visited all of Serbia, and here in previous days I would visit western Serbia, Moravia County, more specifically MZ Mrcajevci, where there are 4,000 inhabitants, with the surrounding villages of 10,000 people. You probably know that there's a DZ out there, the infirmary, and you probably know that by two years ago, this infirmary worked high enough and well enough, that they had a sanity vehicle, because they were 18 kilometers away from Chuck, for cases where emergency needs, that they had an ambulance, that they had a lab, that the interns were coming in, and that, in the meantime, we don't know whose warrant, the equipment was transferred to Chachak, the lab, the sanity vehicle was transferred to Cachak. Up until two years ago, four doctors worked, as much as needed on that number of residents, which was established by law. There's only one doctor working now. Working hours are written and it says that by 2:00, when we got there, around 5:00, it didn't work. He doesn't have enough health workers. In this regard, when we talk about that, you know well that in these environments mostly the elderly live, it is also necessary to check, how much I have informed myself, that even part of that equipment was financed by the citizens of the local community by Mrcajevci in agreement with the city and is now literally taken from them. Now they have one doctor and I think it's a nurse. And, for the most part, I'm free to say, stupidity, for the smallest thing, they have to put themselves in their vehicle and go to Cacak, which is a very bad example and an indication that everything is not so good in health care. I'd just like to point out that, among other things, it's a place with a lot of other problems, but they basically put this problem in place and I'd really like you to get personal information. One health worker, a doctor by profession, left the Moravia County, one was transferred to Cacak and only one remained to work there, of four, as many needs to work in two shifts, plus medical staff. And what I'm particularly saying is, it gets into the eyes, it's that there's been a lab in that DZ for years. She's been moved now, she's gone. Another thing, in elementary school, which I think, if I'm not mistaken, there are over 200 students there's a dental office. For years, she worked at a dental school. You said yourself that the need is, is that, when they have opportunities, it's a reconstructed school, it really looks impressive. It's often said that citizens are you because they don't go on a regular basis and children are controlled by the fact that in 90% of cases we have a not-so-well-healthy nation when it comes to teeth. Two years ago, the same time this is happening, the dentist was moved, it's river, there's no need for you to work at this school anymore, and the dentist and medical staff. Now all of them, both older and children and younger, all have to find some time, find the funds and go to Cachak, even though there is infrastructure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53221	The word has a minister, Mr. Lonchart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53222	You are now all of this, as you said, all of us who have proposed these new laws and have suggested the return of our health homes under the supervision of the Ministry of Health, as if you knew exactly and stated the greatest number of reasons why we do so. So, first of all, everything that's going on in the infirmary, for everything you've listed, the infirmary belongs to the House of Health. The home of health Cačak is under the direct authority of local self-government. The local self-government determines the director, determines the chairman of the Management Board, determines the members of the Management Board and performs, or determines the concept of how it will work, which the infirmary will shut down, which will be opened up, where who will work. So to this day, even today, the Ministry of Health has no authority to do anything about it. I ask you to understand these things and separate them, because that great majority of Serbia was not clear and always come to the Ministry of Health, they skip local self-government where the problem is being solved. So, the only one who, at this point, until this law is passed, until it comes into effect, is the local self-government that organizes work and works on its territory, in its homes of health, in its hospitals. For that reason, everything you've stated, we're changing this now so that it doesn't happen, but that we have a unique system and that we can cover everything that's necessary. That's why we're changing this so things don't happen that you've been talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53223	Thank you. The 36th Amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Ljubenović has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53224	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, by amendment to Article 36. The proposal for a Health Protection Act submitted by the SRS parliamentary group is proposed to amend the said Article in paragraph 1 relating to other legal persons, healthcare providers. This is about universities within the university where integrated study programs, academic studies in the fields of medical, dental and pharmaceutical sciences are performed. Proposer of this law, they may carry out health care work through their organisational units, if the ministry finds by means of a solution that these organisational units meet the conditions for a certain type of health care institution prescribed by this law and the regulations laid down for the implementation of this law. We have proposed by this amendment that we delete the words – and the regulations adopted to implement this law. The reason for the submission of this amendment is the need for conditions to be clearly laid down in the legal provisions, not the regulations for the implementation of this law. To avoid misunderstandings, the SRS has nothing to do with this type of health care provision, we just insist that the law be clearly defined, the conditions for their performance of health care. This bill may be a little bit more extensive, it has 270 members, but the matter is such that we in the SRS think that it would be no problem if another member were to be added to specify everything necessary to be precise, because the area of health care is also important, because human health is more important than anything else. The laws adopted by the National Assembly must be in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and you would have to listen, and sometimes you respect the opposition's constructive proposals, so that certain things are not left unarranged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53225	The word has a minister, Mr. Lonchar.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53226	Let me just tell you for all of what you thought that rules and general acts were absolutely regulated and regulated, so you know, that part that you were talking about, Article 36 of Section 1 goes to legal acts and regulations, the rules absolutely regulate it.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53227	Thank you. Member of the 39th Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? Here's your colleague, Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53228	Thank you. I am very sorry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, because we finished a meeting earlier last week, but I could not forget that the minister said at one point, in response to the criticisms of our MPs, because it is a clear problem that the largest number of people who finish medical schools are asking to go where they can go abroad, especially in some Western European countries. You said Mr. Minister, so you see you're criticizing the EU, paraphrasing, and where are they going, you going when they graduate from college? So they're going to the EU. You know if it's really your opinion it's more than naive. You cannot compare our health care with German or Swedish health. You need to see what happened to the new EU members, who recently joined, see what's going on in Croatia, what's going on there, what's going on in Bulgaria, in Romania, in Hungary, and what's going on in Serbia. So, don't say that the solution is a problem, we'll join the EU and then we won't have a health workers outflow anymore. Your policy, i.e. The policy of your government in which you are a member is full of contradictions. You know, there's limited employment in health care and there's a limited raise in earnings. Recently, we had the opportunity to see Alexander Vukic at one of the numerous press conferences that he said that in the next five years, a big, huge project called "billion euros for health care" will be in Serbia, that we will improve our health system and that we will bring him to some level of European countries. How are we going to do that with limited employment and profit limits? Here's a colleague of yours, Minister Sarcevic, he understood, so he said yesterday he'd ask for a ban on employment in education to be lifted. There are some actions that are most important for the country, where there should be no limit on profit and employment restrictions. These are members of the MUP, the Army, people who work in education, especially in health care. Which message you're sending to someone who's studying medical school, if you tell him there's no way to get a job right now. There is limited employment, health homes are being abolished, so what do you need, what motivation does it have to stay in Serbia? You know, this centralization isn't gonna solve what you just said. You can't say now that you have no influence on local authorities. In only five municipalities in Serbia, you are not in power. Your client. How can we expect this to change? So, you should leave some autonomy to local self-government, but of course the ministry doesn't need to rule it out. It is necessary to try to open hospitals and health homes in all local communities. The president of Serbia once said that he would enter every toilet in school and visit every health home in every village in every settlement in Serbia, so he probably got tired when he realized how many places there were, so he went to two villages and after nothing. What are you for? Are you in charge of employment? You talked here about the specials last week. Then how can he do it with a ban?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53229	The word has a minister, Mr. Lonchart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53230	I didn't just say that the problem would be, whether to join the EU of Serbia to solve the problem of people leaving or not. It's a problem that exists everywhere. It's another matter of employment. There's no one, that people understand, that there's no employment ban wherever you need to get a job. What's done is done. I'm talking about health care specifically. So we don't have any problems with anyone to hire. The only thing we care about is evenly deploying people where necessary, so that there is no principle of fulfilling the desire to get into a situation where we have a surplus of some specialists and some people, and in another environment we have a shortage. Most people want to go to bigger cities and then if they let it go like that. There's no ban, there's nothing, it's just controlled, to know where to hire. That's the essence of the story. Wherever there is a need for employment, there is no obstacle to doing so if that is a valid reason. But if someone has an extra 20 or 30% endocrinologist or an internal cardiologist, so they're asking to receive more here, and we have areas where we're missing pediatricians, and we're not getting that pediatrician, we're not getting a child surgeon, we're getting what else we have in excess, we're getting into a problem that's just about to happen. I just want to remind you of one thing. You have listed all those countries, and those who have entered the EU and who are smaller, bigger, like these, and all of them have faced the problem that at one point their system has been shaken and today and that they cannot function to function. If you don't think it's happening in Serbia and it's a coincidence, I just have to tell you I shouldn't believe in coincidences. We've done a lot of things not to get into this situation to shut down the parts of the hospitals, the parts of the health care facility because of the lack of personnel, which is an example in all of those countries that you've listed. There you go. Just keep it there. We've hired health workers over the last four years and given over 7159 specializations, that's facts. As for taking care of the toilets, taking care of the windows, taking care of the roofs, taking care of all things, you must know what the situation was like and how we found all these things. First of all, those toilets couldn't shut down, they didn't function at all, broken down, and everything else. I don't see anything wrong, even on the contrary, it's positive for me, because when you go in somewhere, you look at the toilets that this facility is like and how it works. It's a great honor for the president who's made time to go through all this, to control it, because it's different when he's involved in all this and he's doing it, and today we don't have that situation. We're already coming, what we were rebuilding four years ago, that it has to be restored again, because it's simply systems that work 24 hours 365 days a year. Please just keep that in mind. And when something so much is in place, then imagine how much it has to be restored and done. So that's the essence of the story.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53231	Right on line, MP Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53232	Well done, President, indeed, when he gets to look at both windows and toilets, and imagine what else would happen if we had ministers who also do their job, and then they get to do something. I don't think you're taking this seriously enough about the European Union. You know, Serbian healthcare workers have been leaving mass in the last few years, and we are still candidates for membership, i.e. We're in negotiations. What would happen if the borders were open and there was freedom for our workers to work abroad? More would go away. And this is where they go to school, our colleges, specializations work here, and then they get there almost, i.e. They get these countries already finished product, i.e. The perfect doctors. What good is that for Serbia, then? You know what, when I said your policy was full of contradictions, that's really true. In the "Eye" show on Serbia's Radio-Television, 2015, Aleksandar Vukic said that, in the wake of the migrant crisis, Angela Merkel very cleverly handled the inflow, i.e. With the admission of migrants from the Middle East, there are many top experts, especially doctors. It can be found on the Internet if you haven't watched. I remember that well. Imagine what kind of message you are now, I'm not telling you personally, but the authority that Alexander Vukic represents, you're sending to the students of medical schools. Then we heard -- a billion euros for health care. I guess it should be a priority and specialisation, but also employment in Serbia, under normal conditions, not knowing whether the government's commission will meet, so what will it decide, whether someone will enter into a working relationship. I think the most important thing is to think about it, because it is Serbia's future.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53233	Right on line, Minister, Mr. Lonchart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53234	We can't compare those two things, the situation in Germany and us, on any basis. Germany lacks, I think, a little less than a million health workers and they also have a situation that the older nation, less and less young, is becoming less and less born. I'm not going into their politics or that's what I'm interested in, but they had an idea to take advantage of that opportunity, too, because they have to find these people from somewhere. We're not in that situation at all, as you know, far from the situation. And as for this, I have to tell you what we did. We've made whoever gets a job, who gets a specialization and specialization lasts five years, he's got to stay here double, do it, and then he can go. What did Hungary do? Hungary is, when you graduate from college in Hungary, five years have brought in a ban that you cannot go abroad if there is a need in the country of Hungary anywhere to be engaged. So you have to do those five years where it takes for the state, because you've had free study, you have to stay here. So there are a lot of measures that some introduce to prevent. We're on this one for now -- when you get a job, you get a specialization, twice the specialization you have to do here. Because we can't invest, and we can't train the staff, so tomorrow it's good-bye. We have to run politics for the next five to ten years, not to get into the situation we inherited, more than 40% older than 55-60 years. That's the point. And as for this, everyone has the right to comment on some moves and everyone looks at their citizens and their country. We can take advantage of some good example, if it can be applied to us, not to make some mistakes that some have made, but to go blindly and not to look at our interests, in any case the citizens of Serbia know – our primary interest is Serbia and the citizens of Serbia. And what is important – we will take from each other what is good for us and what we need. But nowhere, we have no obligation to follow someone, to do something without it being good for Serbia. We'll look above all else at our interest and everything that fits our interest, that's fine. Which doesn't add up, we can't accept and we won't. It'll always be our first priority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53235	Thank you. My colleague Sarovic, on what grounds? Nemanja Sarovic: Replica. You have no right to a replica. Right on line, MP Alexander Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53236	It's not a problem, Mr. Minister, a ban on leaving, as you set an example, in Hungary. You should manage to be a better position for health workers in Serbia, but you should primarily create a perspective that they want to stay there, not that the vast majority of them are eager to leave, which is because of the conditions and, above all, because of the salary. So when you take care of these things, then the problem will gradually decrease, and don't listen – a billion euros for health care, and after that we will close hospitals and health homes. What are we going to do with that billion euros? Let's split it up and go to private doctors, maybe? The main thing is to create a desire for future medical workers who finish colleges in Serbia to stay and to live in Serbia from their work. It should be the only plan and program not of your ministry and you personally, but of every health ministry and future someone who might come after you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53237	Right on the replica, Mr. Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53238	Just take it to calculate exactly one billion euros and will you give those billions of euros to raise wages or this other, to improve the conditions to work? Remember that Serbia took both the gamma knife and the X knife and the latest accelerators, it finally has them, and that it built a Clinical Centre in Nis and that "Dragise Misovic", the one that allegedly burned down, is the new best hospital. The clinic in Belgrade, here, look off the highway, you see, it's already going, it's in a serious phase. Not to say how many scanners, magnetic resonances, how many operating halls, how many X-rays and everything we inherited. So that billion, you mentioned a billion, if you give one thing, to raise wages, then people will have salaries, but they won't have anywhere to work and they won't have anything to work with. If you just put it in the equipment, and you don't put it in the payroll, they'll be unhappy again. So we're always looking for a balance to get the maximum out of that billion without telling you that for years rare diseases haven't been recognized at all. Zero was in the budget for them, and now we're giving two billion. You know how many people with rare diseases who couldn't get a chance to get a cure to heal? So you have to make up for it, same from that billion, so buy all the equipment, and take extra amounts of drugs and create all these conditions that you're talking about, pay for those specializations, pay for all those things from that billion. When you look at when you give for the renovation of the facility, when you give for the equipment, you know that no sanity has been bought in the previous, I don't know, those 10 years, you remember those Jucid affairs, they make a combination, millions, the firm gets a tender, they transfer the company money, there's no company, there's no car, there's nothing. People were a million, two kilometers away, your sanity was passing. We took over 100 cents. Then when you've arranged all of this, to put it to work, 120,000 employees in health care, you've got every office, every home of health, every hospital, every operating room that they have to work with, that they can do it, that they're done, that you can replace their windows, that you can replace their roofs, that it doesn't leak, that it doesn't blow them, that they have these toilets that you mentioned, that you can fix these normal conditions, and you'll see that this billion goes to that system of 120 thousand employees, so many hospitals, homes of health, institutes and all, as a single drop in the sea. An extremely serious, extremely expensive system. Don't get carried away by the fact that health care can be good and it costs a little bit. Guys, that's nowhere to be found, plus our system that you're not paying for anything. You've got insurance everywhere, you're paying for the rest. Let's just be realistic a little bit. What do you think one of us exists here so that he doesn't want to pay doctors I don't know, two, three, five grand, so who'd be happier than me? Here, in my time the salaries came at two thousand, I don't have to do anything anymore, walk the kids and smile, because he says -- here, in his time they pay 2,000 euros and the rest. Who wouldn't do that if they could? But we can do that, but tomorrow we're gonna put our kids in charge of being like these last ones, buying some political points and stuff. He can't. You can schedule what you have if you want to move on. You see these experts, here they are now gone, they promise all day long to be. They promise all day long that all in health care, those who have ruined everything in health care, are now understood in health care, and now they say, "Now all things will be, if they come, they will heal everything, they will get everything, they will pay everything and everything will be. You're the same guy who ruined everything. They can't even get out. Now you take something to do and now some of the citizens need to think it's just like that, that I can, first of all, have to, to the citizens who are looking for me to turn this around, people it's not real. He who tells you that everything will be, that he will provide you with everything, that's not true. That's impossible. Whoever's talking to you has nothing to do with the health system. He didn't go past it, secure all that money for all of it. Guys, it's too expensive for health care. Look at how much that equipment costs, how much the drugs cost. I'm telling you, for a child, the treatment of a rare disease costs 500,000 euros a year. For one child, it is 500,000 euros a year, from a rare disease. You have higher, lower prices, depending on the disease. That's true, don't lie to anyone. It's got to be a stronger state to be able to separate more money, but you can't separate it into just one thing, you have to give all these things if you want to have a result. It's impossible. Nemanja Sarovic: Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53239	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53240	Mr. Arsic, it's a strange way to run the National Assembly sessions. You have violated Article 27, which obliges you to lead them in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and the Rules of Procedure of Rule 157, paragraph 8 says that the minister can speak of each amendment once and for up to two minutes at most. Only in this latest report, which reportedly was a replica, there is no replica on the replica, the minister spoke for nearly six minutes. There is no way in accordance with the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53241	I understand, colleague Sarovic. You and I will never agree whether the minister has a right to replication or not, I quote another provision that the minister also applies to the same obligations as to the MPs. (I Nemanja Sarovic: If I can take the Rules of Procedure to... ) Please, I understand what you're trying to advertise in violation of the Rules of Procedure... Nemanja Sarovic: I have two minutes to explain. You have until two minutes to explain. Let me answer that. And the second observation about time, I apologize to you, you're right, and I'll take care of it now. (Alexander Seselj: Replica. A colleague of Seselj, you have no right to a replica. Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. ) On Article 39 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) (Inemnja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure, Arsic. ) Here you go, colleague Boyic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53242	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, parliamentary practice and experience tell us that the amendments to the opposition are being rejected by the list, to use this folk term, so our efforts to write the amendments are completely devoid, so that I, in the context of the time offered, will try to present my views on this legislative proposal. In this bill, a lot of our and European minds have been incorporated. Europe can be our role model in some methods of treatment, in medical research, medical devices and instruments and aids, but a good organization must be our work, and our experience our investment. The Serbian Radical Party believes that some of the provisions in this bill are not clearly defined, which can lead to confusion and give the possibility of different interpretations, which automatically assumes different practices in real life. If the promoter wanted to be liberal, and he wanted to, so he allowed the establishment of private practice, but only once, why doesn't everyone, if they have the right under the law, define their own interest? Monopola will not be, and abuse can be when private practice is established at least one time. Sometimes the promoter loses his weight, what the Ministry should do, and what the minister does, so it's important...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53243	I thank my colleague Bojic, I am that we have a slightly more tolerated way of working, but my colleague Sarovic reminds me of that, so I can't let you do this anymore. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 41st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 42nd amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, colleague Stojanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53244	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister of Associates, I have submitted an amendment to Article 42. The health care law. You know the position of the SRS that we in principle have nothing against doing things in this area in the way that suits our citizens the most. However, we believe that many things in this law could have been resolved in a different way and more effective ways. In fact, this amendment speaks of private practice and rules that it must operate on. It is known that the payment of services in private practice is rarely done in foreign currency. At best, these services are charged in dinars, but their nominal amount is the dinar equivalent of the foreign currency that is used most in us, which is the euro. There is a legitimate concern that many abuses will occur when these services are charged. Experiences from earlier times tell us that my fear is justified, so I asked my amendment to take to the law a provision which would oblige the service provider to present and charge its services exclusively in the domestic currency. Now one question for you, Mr. Minister. Here, we have been discussing this important law for several days, but so far I have not heard from either of you or any of the ruling furniture how this law applies and how it applies to our citizens in Kosovo and Metohija? First of all, I want to ask you, do you know what the situation on this issue is in the Kosovo Moral, where I come from? You know that many Serbs still live there, and what have you and your government done for these citizens? What is their health care, and do you do anything about the employment of health workers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53245	Mr. Lonchart has the word. I'll just be a minute. As far as charging goes, it's regulated by the finance law. It has nothing to do with us. That's where it's regulated. No one in Serbia can charge in euros, only in dinars can. They control it, it has nothing to do with health care. As for Kosovo, daily hourly communication with healthcare professionals from Kosovo, with our health institutions, are applied as well as in central Serbia or anywhere else. I've secured everything that's necessary for them to do, to provide maximum service well, so I think you can also check and see for yourself. And there has never been any more employment of doctors or sisters related to Kosovo and Metohija. Thank you. The 45th Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, fellow Boyic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53247	It's a good thing I came this fast to continue that thought that you interrupted me. Sometimes, however, the promoter loses sight of what the ministry should do and what the minister should do. I'll wait for the minister to make a phone call. So, it's important to be written down to everyone by the jurisdiction of what belongs to him. This is an example where jurisdiction should be regulated under the law, not given authority to a minister. The promoter of some things freaks out and too detailed, and the rest of the important ones leave open to doping for later. The main question is how much of the offered concept is sustainable, how much is it suited to our economic opportunities, to improve the quality of healthcare? A very wide health system is being proposed, so the question is whether changes in this area of health are so intense or whether our legislative activity is too slow? The system needs to be fully revived in a year, and until then it's in transition mode. How long will the legislator be called for indeterminateness and ambiguity in the applicable law as a reason for the adoption of this law? There are also reasons for the need for more active role of the ministry, i.e. the Minister of Health, as regards the adoption of sublegal acts to enforce the law. If it will activate the Ministry and the Minister, so be it. Or a similar explanation, the need to introduce greater powers of the minister in the work relating to normative activities for the adoption of general acts to enforce the law. The essence of these legal proposals is for the minister to be given greater authority and in marginal matters, as contained in point 8 of the reasons for the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53248	Thank you. The 50th amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ristic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 59th Amendment was submitted by MP Darko Laketic. The government and the Health and Family Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 60 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53249	We're here, Minister, talking about a very serious matter. What's most serious about all this is that the problems that accompany medical workers from day to day are the maltenes are growing bigger and bigger, above all, the problems of material nature. To be clear, the best high school students are enrolled in medical school and these are people who, apart from that general success, think in a completely different way when they commit themselves to this profession. It's not the point, Minister, that you here say it's impossible to secure 2,000 euros or some other amount of personal income. The point is that this young man sees some perspective. Each young doctor will see his perspective if he can, except for this one-third of his working time, which, if he has, he can use to work at another clinic or another institution. He wants to provide himself with basic conditions for the existence of himself and his family for a certain number of years of work experience, so that he can provide himself with an apartment, that he can feed his family and stay in Serbia. I don't like our experts going abroad, and you know it well, because there are conditions much worse than here, in terms of the amount of renting of the apartment, the cost of living and all that order. You know that every young man when he goes there goes into great uncertainty, and we have a medical deficit here. The fact that you're talking about employment, it might be adopted in part, not to build up certain structures, or specialists in one institution, but you, ministers, are the most responsible for it, and then hierarchically, as it goes, remain under the ministry. Well, you're the ones who need to come up with a plan, so to speak, in the next five years Serbia needs experts in the field of medicine in these and these sectors, or specializations. And that's the point. You can't blame a young man in Belgrade which is naturally his wish, when he graduates from medical school, when he specializes in working in Belgrade. It's his right. Is he going to exercise that right? Well, you're the one who directs these people as an executive body, to say: the deficit is in Chačka, Valjevo, Užica, in Sainta, in other cities, in these and those areas. That's how we're gonna direct the specials. But what's the biggest problem here besides what's material? Staff policy being conducted, Minister. It has already become the continuity of the nakaradic staff policy. You head clinics, institutions, health institutions put party members, no matter how professional he is and how capable he is. You have one example, precedent, where experts came, like on Dedinj, where a man who doesn't belong to the SNS came, and you can see the move immediately, not as much as he would have wanted. Professor Bojic has made a move, and it is a major, significant shift when it comes to the Dedinj institution itself. That we know well, we who are from around or from the environment of the Institute in Kamenica. So no one's going to Kamenica anymore, but she's coming, she's asking Santa to come in for surgery. It is a return to patient confidence towards the institution, and trust is restored by the appropriate adequate personnel policy to be led. That's what attention should be for.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53250	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53251	All that stuff you said, we did it. When we hire someone, first of all, we hire the best students, which nobody ever hired. Second, everyone gets a job at the competition, gets a job, the state pays for their specialization, the state pays for their doctoral studies. That's what you're talking about, creating conditions for them. What are we doing? We create conditions for them to make the best progress in Serbia. We bought the equipment, we bought everything that was necessary for them to prove themselves there. What are we doing with this law now? It's an extra thing, so they can make extra money. Don't forget, when they're done and specializing, and when they're doctoral, they, every one of them, and they have these good averages, they can have another salary, to be active in college, that's another salary, plus what they're doing. We have this thing that if he doesn't have a waiting list, if he meets his work obligations, that he doesn't have to go anywhere to the private, so he doesn't blackmail him, I don't know, that he's charging in euros, we've explained how it's regulated, by which law, he works in his health care facility, because he's proven himself and he's valuable and he knows and people want to come to him. He works with his team, with his sister, with his assistant, and they all make money, earn more. So he makes money as a doctor, makes money here when he goes to college and earns as much as he wants and when he wants to work the afternoon. It's all very transparent, you can see how much money is paid, you know, of course, it's being paid in dinars, how much hospital is left, how much money he has left, how much help he has left. That's what we're doing and what we've changed and what we've done to keep these people, and for the reason we can't give them that pay we talked about, two, three, five, ten thousand that we can, the basic salary I'm talking about, but with all this stuff, he can make more and he can try and do. That's the point, but don't really talk about party directors. Give me examples of party directors in Serbia, in institutions, please. Here, you should immediately list the party directors in front of everyone, so that all of Serbia, the SNS, who put party directors in institutions without people being professional, that we put them in because they are party and they are not professional. Please state all examples, and let me tell you how many directors have nothing to do with SNS, where we're looking at the absolute profession. Just the fact that we cross the facts. Guys, here we are, here we go. Let him watch all of Serbia. You're letting us cross-reference and how people are received, whether they're admitted to competition, whether they're being taken away by someone, what they're talking about. Let's all get that open. In my opinion, the greatest sin, the greatest evil there is is to take money from a young man who's graduated from college to get a job. He should be sentenced to maximum prison sentences, so no one can think of that. It's the greatest evil there is and that's what we're going to fight... Just say it, people, say it, report it, he did it, let whoever asked him for the money come. I'm the first one to solve this. It's killing young people to start. If you give them that example, then what tomorrow is going to be of him, and he's going to look at it like he's asking for money. That's why we gave the competition. Was it perhaps a contest before I came to the minister's post? Did you have a competition somewhere? Do you remember how it was employed? Just getting a contract to work. No, no, come on... Milorad Mircic: The same you. Which one are you? How? Milorad Mircic: The same ones that were previously received. Who took the book? Do you know that the people who were admitted to the contract they had earlier, we can't quit? How do we give a man because he's politically admitted? That's why we now have a big problem, a negative selection that no quality people have received, so we lose a generation and two, we have a vacuum. Guys, let's just be realistic, so you know all this better than me. Don't act naive now and we don't know. If we want to help health care, if we want to, and we're wasting this time and we're all sitting here, so the stupidest thing is to split up and do nothing and collect some... There's no reason, people, there's no reason for this. If we don't make a deal, there's no future tomorrow. This one more time, if this medical circuit goes down and goes down, no one can fix it, people.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53252	The word is made by the People's MP Milorad Mircic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53253	There's no need for any bitterness, especially when it's the way it's discussed. Minister, you know this well, if you were to list what you claim to be a director without membership in the SNS, you might need your fingers on both hands, and if I were to list everyone with membership cards, as "experts" would not be enough for me on my hands or on my feet. The bottom line is, here's one example for you, we're witnessing that last year the government launched a good initiative, which is to provide housing for workers of the Ministry of the Interior and civil servants. If the initiative were similar, and why is it similar, if a young expert, a doctor, would allow you to solve your housing problem on favourable terms, you would thus take a major step in keeping that expert, especially high-level persons. You know, not everyone goes abroad. The nurses are coming, but it's not exactly like Western Europe has spread its arms to receive all the doctors who want to go there. They take what's top-of-the-line and what they need. These others, if they leave, work there as technicians, do much lower-paid jobs, and we know that, and we have people and how valuable they are to us. Not a small number of them, Minister, go just for a reason, you know that, at least from the college you should know, because they don't see any perspective when it comes to living space, when it comes to the existence of his family and it's just that, Minister, nothing more. You know, you're coming into a situation where someone who's put in charge of some health care facility decides, but literally decides on this part that applies to the basic existence of a young doctor who gets a job, then it's tragic, because as soon as the human factor is involved, and the government would literally decide on this kind of initiative, such as housing for the MUP, and in order to achieve a certain effect, then they would keep these people and then they would have this network of even representation and when it comes to highly professional or specialized personnel in the field of medicine. Whoever gets an apartment, works example, in Valjevo, so he won't risk coming to Belgrade and being a tenant. That's the point, what the SRS insists on, and there's no reason to raise the tone or heat the atmosphere. This is the fate of young people, young experts. We will all, more or less, have to be treated, today-to-morrow, ministers, with our experts, we will not be able to go to Vienna and we are not worth the expensive equipment if our electric engineers leave if our medical workers leave. We can only observe it and statistically boast that we have modern equipment.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53254	Thank you. The word has a Minister Lonchar, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53255	I agree. We will absolutely work to provide housing for doctors and nurses. It's something we're working on, and it's a very important thing. It has nothing to do with anything. We'll work and we'll do.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53256	The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53257	She's been mentioned for a while and the SNS. Mr. Minister, I'm sure you've paid attention, the MP said, there are some people who, because politically they belong to the SNS, are in the leading places. You ask for an example, you don't hear any names, you literally don't hear any names. It's not an accident. Because there's no such example in this discussion and there won't be any. That's what I'm telling you right now. In fact, the only name you have heard, as any example, does not go as proof of what the apostle was saying, does not go in favor of what he said, but of what you said. The only name they mentioned was, I think, Dr. Bojic. The proof of your words is that people are placed in the right places today, in responsible places, because they are professional, because they understand their work, because they are capable of executives, because they can improve the system in which they are found. That's what you said, Mr. Minister. The example we've heard is evidence of your claims. There was also a mention of what he estimated and what Alexander Vukic concluded. At what point? I agree with the amendment's proposer on one thing. I think we all agree here. Health care professionals are valuable to this society. That's what Aleksandar Vukic said and said they were valuable, not only to Serbia, but to every country that takes care of itself, including Germany, they were valuable to Angela Merkel, and therefore she gave her estimates of highly qualified and professional people who came to Europe in the previous years. You don't have to run from it. So every country that takes care of itself wants to keep people like that. If there are, keep them. If they're not there, he'll draw them. The ways are all that we talked about and the higher wages, you correct me, if I'm wrong, Mr. Minister, but exactly for the health sector 10-12% higher. Is that right? There are ways to provide new jobs. You may have more up-to-date information. Over 12,000 new places have already been secured in the last three years. All the scholarships that we talked about and the practice of having the best students immediately, we talked about today, and what people are going to work on, not just for how much, but for what they're going to work on. I don't agree that it doesn't matter what their terms are. This is very important, because because of the conditions provided, these people have motivation, these people become better times, and those people who are meant for it, therefore, for the citizens of Serbia, see the immediate benefit. What Alexander Wolf said on all these subjects. What we're talking about right now and that these salaries that are bigger than they deserve, but he added that they would be even bigger. And he said how, according to our budget options. We increased because we looked after the budget domestically, so we had where we came from. And today we can say we're already planning to do it again. Because there's still someone in this country who's getting old in a responsible way. And all that we provided, and the Minister also spoke of the Clinical Centre in Nis, and of the many thousands of new squares secured there, but also of equipment worth tens of millions of euros, and of the Belgrade Centre, and of the treatment of children abroad, and of the treatment of rare diseases. So, about all those things that we have money in the register right now, and sometimes we could just dream of it. But also about the need for our people to be further perfected in this way, so everything we can treat in Serbia to do here. When can we bring the experts here to train our people? That's what we do today. About the infrastructure that's so powerful that we can literally discuss today's entire debate just to do so. I don't want to spend all my time arguing about it, but why not tell and why people don't know. What we're investing in and what's real today is not talking, but something that ends while we're here in this room, it also means GAK – Visegrad and KBC Zemun and the Institute of Cardiovascular Diseases, the Emergency Center, means the Neurosurgery Clinic, the Radiology Center. We're talking all about the values measured in millions of euros. We're talking about the Institute of orthopaedic surgery. Individual equipment, for which we need one session complete to only talk about it. So, the things Serbia is doing today, once again, because it not only takes care of itself, not only because responsible people are taking care of it, but because it has the words of Alexander Vukic. It's nice that you're following them, and you should follow them. Here's another March 30th, the result of our policy, that's his words, because jobs are full of cash. And these health jobs that we are talking about and those that concern other sectors in this country and all those that will get apartments at popular prices, subsidized prices, which are covered by programmes today, which will be covered by new programmes tomorrow. Jobs for people in production, jobs for people in the economy in the broadest sense, increases resulting from this full case, which is proudly and rightly spoken of by Aleksandar Vukic. These are the things we provide to the citizens of Serbia, among other things and health workers, and for that, I am sure, I am not wrong if I say anything – today these people are feeling better than they have been, and our obligation and the thing that we are first of all tasking ourselves to make sure that tomorrow is even better for them than it is today. It's real stuff. We can, but when we talk about what we're providing and what's the reality, it's this and people know it, and even when we ask them again what they think about all this, I'm sure, those convincing answers that we've had a few times when we've asked people back, they can only be more convincing. I think it's a little clearer now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53258	Thank you. Right on line, MP Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53259	In a way, he apologizes to his colleague Orlic, but I can't tell you when you finished your quote and when you started it. Your words are the original words of Alexander Wolfich. I'd love to rephrase it to you, but I think it's better for the author of what you're saying. It's better when I come to take the opportunity to replicate it to him. Here's what's the point. Minister, you are well aware that the almost unwritten rule is when it comes to the examples of the Institute of the Sremska Kamenica for cardiovascular diseases, the regular shift of government also involves changes in the main man, i.e. the manager or director and oncology and polyclinics. It's always followed by a change of government, new faces coming in, new director. Of course, most of them are from collectives. Not to mention names now because these are people who are primarily educated, they're from the field of medicine and far from any objection that we can individually make to their profession. Why don't you break that rule? You're not suggesting that the man who's now been put up by, conditionally speaking, these authorities aren't so professional that they couldn't if there was a change in government to lead that same institution? Paradox, here's a colleague of yours, so tell President Vukic, he's a specialist in pulmonary diseases, director of Luke Novi Sad. Where's that? Professor Dr. Bata Milovanchev instead of still in his profession, you've appointed him director of Luke Novi Sad. Where's that now? We can also dispute his political commitment and his political views, but he is a man who has worked for many years, perfected himself on an institution called the Oncological Clinical Center or the Institute in Sremska Kamenica. A man's career ends because he's been biological for years, as director of Luke Novi Sad. Do we really have that many experts? Are the criteria really sharp and strict? Instead of being the District Secretary for Health, he's the director of Luke Novi Sad. Luke Novi Sad has now been sold. They'll probably end up the same at some job where it's a technique, and the people who have graduated from the school of technical sciences, they'll probably work in medicine. I do, but I've set an example for you. Once again, I ask you to say when you quote and when you break up with the quote.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53260	Right on line, MP Vladimir Orilić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53261	I want to help. It's not a question. So far, I guess we've established that I'm trying to help. So it doesn't matter this example. I see the little amendment promoter got a little involved with what he wanted. He wanted to set an example for people who were at the head of health institutions who weren't professional, so he went into the opposite. That's the least important. I can't keep track of everyone's thoughts right now. As far as the quote goes, since he wanted to replicate to Alexander Wolfich when he met him, that's what I want to help with. If the amendment promoter knew, Aleksandar Vukic said that healthcare professionals would be able to expect increases in the future in line with what we can secure from our budget, the end of the quote. It's easy when it's replicated to know the amendment promoter – that's true. That's absolutely true. Just so he knows he's replicating the true thing. Secondly, there will be apartments for people who are engaged in the health sector as soon as we have opportunities for this, too, in line with the budget. And it's also a quote that's finished with this. That the amendment promoter knows, and that's also true. That we can do all that, and sometimes we could just dream, end quotes, feel free to ask, but also know when you ask, and that's a notorious fact. Perhaps most important what I said a moment ago – what is the result of this policy that has made Serbia far more successful today than it has been in years behind us? The fact that it is the result of the job and is full of cash - Aleksandar Vukic, the end of the quote. Feel free to ask Alexander Vukic for those words and, you know, the fact is that these are the results. If you wish to hold any further consultations on this topic, talk to Serbian citizens in the meantime. Now on the street to go out together and ask the citizens of Serbia if they recognize jobs and full cash, as it wasn't for the results, what do you think they're going to say? Brother 60% plus he'll tell you – we see, we'll see.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53262	Thank you. You have no right to a replica, colleague Mircic. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53263	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, very briefly. I was distracted by this Luke Novi Sad thing. It's not an army. Being director of Luke Novi Sad is not a must. Probably the man competed for it. No one forced him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53264	Honorable Members of the People, acting unanimously. 27th and 87th centuries 2nd and 3rd. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to bring the acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Member of the 60th Amendment was submitted by MP Darko Laketic. The government and the Committee on Health and Family accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 60 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 62 of the amendment was submitted by MP Slavica Zivkovic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Zivkovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53265	I thank the chairman. Dear Mr. Minister with Associates, I have submitted an amendment to Article 62. The bill on health care and the amendment was rejected due to a technical error. But, no matter what, I believe that this issue is very important and that it should be spoken of in terms of ensuring the availability of healthcare services to people with disabilities. If the prevention of discrimination and the exercise of rights in accordance with the needs of persons with disabilities represents the permanent commitment of the Republic of Serbia to the priorities and objectives set out in the strategy for improving disability in the Republic of Serbia, the Law on Confirmation of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, as well as other number of documents relating to the improvement of the situation of persons with disabilities and the prevention of discrimination on any basis, we believe that, based on the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, the State has undertaken to take all appropriate measures including legislation to amend or abolish existing laws, regulations, customs, customs and practices that constitute discrimination against persons with disabilities. I therefore believe that the risks of discrimination, marginalisation and social exclusion of persons with disabilities tend to increase and multiply, and it is necessary to continuously take different measures and activities to minimise these risks to the best possible extent. Persons with disabilities have different physical sensors, intellectual and mental difficulties and needs to be made available and adequately used healthcare services. What does that mean? Persons with physical disabilities should be made available at all healthcare facilities, the construction of ramps or other aids. People with a disability sensor need to provide audio information, as well as information on Bray’s letter. For people with intellectual and mental disabilities, the availability of healthcare services means understanding of oral and written information, as well as finding a place of health care. Then also provide customized oral and written information and information, simple and easy language, as well as visual signs. In order to ensure the availability of healthcare services, it is also necessary to provide for any establishment of health care counsel who knows the specific needs and problems of persons with disabilities, has special knowledge and skills to help people with disabilities in the area of health care and in understanding the information and instructions of doctors and other healthcare professionals. A counselor does not have to be a new employee, he may also be a person who works on the counter, who is further qualified to provide information to people with disabilities on him, an understandable letter, a language. Why do I think it's so important? As a mother of a disabled child, my daughter is 29 years old and is a person of intellectual difficulties. They're hardly recognizable when they enter the home of health, because they don't have visible handicaps, but when they stand in front of the counter, all the notifications standing in front of the counter mean nothing to them, because they can't read, by the moss. Depending on the problem they have and the extent of the damage of a person with such a problem, they are more or less likely to show the problem that brought them to the home of health. Of course, persons on the counter with greater or less understanding of access to such a person. The question is how busy it is, can it be devoted in the right way, how it's going to help him, if the person doesn't know why she's here and can't say it. These are problems that could be talked about for a very long time, but I don't, believe me, for 22 years I've been working intensively on humanitarian work and improving people with disabilities through associations to help people with developmental disorders. This problem is the subject of every meeting. Parents can deal with this problem more or less. We're very often in health homes because of our children's problems. Very often you also have to respond to some unforeseen situations, and you can’t be so often away from work. The parent's army failed to preserve employment precisely because of problems like this. If not through the law, perhaps through some sublegal act there may be a solution to this problem, because even hiring a person who would help a person with developmental disorders, access to health care at home may not be as much an expense as a whole army of parents who have lost their jobs and who are on welfare today. In this way, it also helps a person with disabilities and family and the budget of the state. Perhaps the request is too much, perhaps just hiring a counselor sounds like an additional serious problem that should be found in health homes today, but we are also trying as a state to improve the position of disabled people. My lifelong work has really done a lot and people with disabilities today have significantly better conditions and are more visible and recognizable, have the right to employment, work engagement, different kinds of support that are indeed on a much higher level today than before. If we want to bring our legislation into line with the EU and if we are to go that way, maybe this part should also be brought to that level by European countries to help those who really need help and who can't say it. Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53266	The word is made by Minister Lonchar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53267	Thank you. The problem is big and the problem is real. What I can promise you is that we will deal with this problem seriously and further, to find the best possible solution that we can for some of the shortest deadlines to deliver. That's what I promise you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53268	Thank you. National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to the 64th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53269	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, I have submitted an amendment to Article 64. Proposal for a health care law. Like my previous amendment, where I have expressed concern that health services will be charged in foreign currency, here I express another kind of concern. Here are the reference health institutions and the way they are arranged. The legislative solution envisions that the minister in charge settles the issue of reference health institutions. The Minister must not be given absolute authority in this area, these matters should be governed by the Ministry, with consultations of a wider spectrum of individuals and institutions that have touch points in this area. Otherwise, there will be new abuses, and as always, there will be citizens of Serbia at the loss. Who guarantees, even the minister himself, that he has the most honorable intentions, to be able to choose the most optimistic health care institution references? On the other hand, who is this expert who will evaluate that one institution admits the results in fundamental and applied scientific research, and the other institution does not? So there are a lot of open questions here that can negatively affect an idea that in itself isn't bad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53270	Thank you. National MP Marina Ristic submitted to the 64th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The 65th amendment was submitted by MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53271	I thank the chairman. Dear Minister, I have submitted an amendment to Article 65, where I added that in the homes of health there is a speciality of internal medicine precisely because we are witnessing that in small municipalities from which I come, there are large territories, there are a number of old people whose need is such that we must provide adequate protection at all times. We are witnessing that there are a large number of our people in these small municipalities that do not have internal medicine doctors and that the expansion of cardiovascular diseases, diabetes, etc. Through this amendment I have sought and it would be good for every home of health to have a doctor of internal medicine and for that man to be present every day, because there is a big problem with us in small municipalities that have great territory, a large number of people die because they have no possibility of going to treatment. It would be different if he were in the home of health doctor of internal medicine and gave that man adequate prevention or protection or treatment or to send him where he needs to be sent. I think it's necessary that we have in every home of health and in the small municipalities of the doctor of internal medicine because it's a reality that happens with us, a great expansion of cardiovascular diseases, diabetes and everything else, and we're witnessing that some health homes don't have an internal medicine specialist. That's why. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53272	I thank my colleague Miletic. National MP Miroslava Stankovic Đuričić submitted to the 70th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 75 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Branimir Rancic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) colleague Vesna Ivković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53273	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected fellow Members and fellow MPs, article 75 speaks of what the health home least needs to provide. My suggestion was for attitude 6 that "health care for employees" should be added, and in principle, I said a lot of things in the debate about the importance of working medicine. What I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary. Since it says the same thing in the same article of the law that medical work can be done, does this mean that doctors of medical medicine can be contracted with the RFZO, and that they only do the work of a specialist in medical work, not the work of a selected doctor? Because so far, it's been a practice for medical specialists to plead that they're doing the work of a selected doctor to be agreed with the fund. Thank you. The word is made by Minister Lonchar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53274	That was regulated 20 years ago. Doctors of medical work, those of what they do, they literally finance themselves on the market and they always earn what they do. That's the essence of the story. They charge all those things they do. So that's the point.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53275	The word is from a colleague, Ivković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53276	Thank you. Minister, I know how to charge and it's huge money, so-called. Your own home of health, I understand that. But so far, not always, I think it's been since 2005, that the medical work couldn't have been arranged with the Republic Fund. Correct me, but I think it stopped being arranged here sometime after 2000. Earlier they could only do the job of medical work specialists believe me. So, they were just doing a medical work specialist's job and they were contracted with the fund, and they later went to the selected doctors. The job and selected doctor and specialist of medical work is impossible in one working time of eight hours to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53277	Right on the line, Minister Lonchar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53278	What you're saying is, that's the moment when they had the right to choose whether they wanted to go to the fund, whether they wanted to go to the chosen doctor or stay. It was their free will, which they chose to win. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53279	Thank you. Member of the 75th Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? Here's your colleague, Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53280	I'm sorry that Mr. Arsic interrupted the recent discussion, but as far as we could understand from your exposure that what Aleksandar Vukic announced on TV a billion euros for healthcare for the next five years, it's not some new idea, it's a new project, but it's money that's being spent anyway. Then what does it mean only in the media to see these announcements? That looks bombistic. You know, we've had a chance to watch what the current Progressive Authority is doing and to understand each other, we share an opinion about the former regime. The DS regime, but it wasn't you who came to power yesterday, but you've been in power for seven years. You can't justify yourself now for what happened seven years ago. Serbia has recovered from much more severe crises in less time. Imagine what Serbia was like, imagine someone telling you seventy-five years ago -- well, now there was World War II 30 years ago, or sixty-five. What are those excuses? I guess that's why you won the election, the people thought, these are better, Serbia is devastated. So, what now? We've been listening for seven years -- former government, former government. That's why you've been chosen. You should change that, I guess. On the other hand, I don't understand one thing. What we can see are announcements and what happens when there's a particular thing about these actions that are important to the state, which are primarily the MUP, the military, the education and the police, that we have spectacular announcements of one-time payments of six, seven, ten or fifteen or how many. We boast of it and celebrate it as a great success. Why is that? Why don't we have a pay raise? Why don't we take care of the people who are employed in these activities? You can't tell me the former government, who's asking the former government now? I guess it's your responsibility now.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53281	The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53282	It's mentioned, of course, because it's supposed to be mentioned, because that's how the differences are most clearly seen. On these topics that we're talking about today, these differences are seen and there's no sin in saying what it looked like during the former regime, and what it looks like today. When it comes to saying that we got people's trust because we said it would be better, to see the difference that says something already is better today. Here's an example of this clinic in Nis, we talked about it, and we talked about it right here in this room, what it looked like, let's say, this project during the former regime, and we talked about it being a meadow. Now, compare the meadow, one desert with, I'll give you precise data, with the Clinical Center that now extends to 45 thousand square meters, in which the reconstruction is, the construction, in which the equipment is invested over 50 million euros, compare it to 16 state-of-the-art surgical halls it now has, with three angio-salas. Compare that meadow and that desert of the former regime with the two emergency centers it now has. Compare this with 613 standard beds in the stationary area, intensive care facilities and for the first time in the developed health facilities of the transplant center. So that's something that's reality. If we went out with certain suggestions and projects in front of citizens and got trust for them, here's what we did. When we say - the former regime did not do any of this and we say that for it standards were not this which today brings people from the region, from all over Europe to be treated, but deserts and, of course, numerous embezzlements that were measured by millions of euros but not as used as today, but placed in the pockets of Gilas, Jeremic and similar. We're saying this for a good reason, so don't forget gentlemen, what it looked like, what a terrible thing it looked like and how it threatened to be even scarier, and how different it is today and how much better we're going to be doing this seriously and so safe, which is the policy of Alexander Vukic and the SNS that you mentioned, to make tomorrow a bigger difference, even more convincing, so that even the citizens see even better tomorrow when we all turn to them again with the question – who would you trust, to make the answer even easier than it is today.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53283	Thank you. Right on line, MP Alexander Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53284	You know, if any condition was catastrophic, it can't be an excuse that's bad now. Don't tell me that now it's the former government's fault that we have doctors or students or people who are finishing medical schools or specializing. It can't be because something was a much worse excuse for being in bad shape now. You're elected, you're in power, you don't need to know what happened before, you need to know what you're going to do. It doesn't really matter who it was or what happened, it's been seven years. So the basic point of everything when the people in the election changed power was that they had no confidence in the former government. What are we listening to for seven years now? Well, that's clear from the election results, but they can't be blamed for something that's happening, for example. A few years back, let it go. I'm really talking about this. I think that these are acute problems in our society, primarily related to these four actions, of which health care is the most important and even, if I'm not mistaken, there are the most employees. I would only like you to look up to Minister Sarcevic, who gave a statement yesterday that I support, where the restrictions on employment in education are interrupted. I think it's a good move, I think you should look up to it and it'll give a new boost to our health care.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53285	The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53286	I have to underline it one more time, whenever we hear a grudge that we shouldn't be interested in what it looked like in the past regime, no, actually we should. In fact, we should because they'd like us to take a stand now – we're not interested and we'll forget everything and pretend like we've never been and it's easier if we don't think about them. They'd be most comfortable if suddenly some atmosphere was created -- they just showed up and there was nothing and they were never there, they didn't steal anything and they didn't ruin anything, and then they could now pretend that all this stuff they're saying makes sense, and they're saying all sorts of stupid things to people who are personally responsible for destroying this country, destroying the people to the board, to forget. Once again, it is our duty not to allow. We've mentioned a pay increase, so today when there's funds in that budget, and there's, once again, thanks to this policy that we've been given trust and I'm justifying, because we have a surplus in the budget for the third year in a row, and we can also make these budget increases today and we can plan a new one. This is the difference between these now measured 460 euros in average salary in the Republic of Serbia, when it compares to their fantastic 330 euros, it is quite clear to you that both this Gilas and that Jeremic and that unfortunate Obradovic, who is now watching whom he will be the new favorite character, are actually just talking nonsense when they promise that there will be 1,000, there will be 2,000, there will be 100,000. They showed what they could do and showed a 330-euro average. Compared to these 460 euros, it only suits us. To remember, once again, it is our obligation, so tomorrow when it is 500, which we are talking about today, and will be, you will see, that the citizens are clear why this difference is great and that those who made sure to make themselves rich, and here I think of this Gilas and that Jeremiah, were able to do so at the cost of pocket, bread and happiness of those people, not to allow them more than 330 euros on average, so that, as for Gilas, it was 500 million euros in a few years alone. It's a very important thing and that thing determines everything else. If you throw yourself into such people's hands again, then it can only be the devil's fault that we've come back to losing hundreds of thousands of jobs, which was in their time, that we've thrown today's result that hundreds of thousands of new jobs are opening up and that we're fighting the world's most successful to make it even more and better, to work to bring giants like "Folksvagen", which we've easily released down the water. If that happens to this society, it's our own fault. Now, that's why it's our obligation to remind ourselves, to speak clearly in every place and in every opportunity who they are, what they've shown, so that because we talk to the citizens again tomorrow when we turn to them and show these results and these new hundreds of thousands of jobs and these pay raises, it's easy for them to remember what they need to compare, what those who wave to the gallows and the motor saws could do, and then it's easy for them to make a new conclusion and a new decision to make, that we do responsibly and securely, be without worry, it'll be easier than ever, it'll be easier than ever to make that decision in the right way, which means in the interests of the state, in the interests of this people and this country. Thank you. (Alexander Seselj: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53287	You have no right to a replica, Comrade Seselj. (Alexander Seselj: Short.) ) Short or long, the right to replica is right to replication. (Alexander Seselj: It's boring. It's not boring. The word is a colleague of Malusic's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53288	Thank you, Chairman. Just a reminder for, let's remember in 2012, so that the Serbian Progressive Party did not come to power with its coalition partners, the country would be completely dead. Why? Well, there's been bankruptcy, and we all know that. You need to tell the truth. So 26 billion euros left us with debt. We're returning those billions slowly, we're burning to 23, and we're taking loans on much, much more favourable terms, 2%, they're taking 8%. Health care. How was health care in 2012? Desperate, completely devastated, we were in 34th place, and who are we in today? At 18. What does that mean? Much, much better. It's completely different health care. We've invested an enormous amount of money, completely different conditions. I'll speak as a patient first, and then as a national letter. In 2011, I was hospitalized, unfortunately, that's how it happened. Terrible, dirty, we all remember yellow bugs, I couldn't wait to get out. Is that true? Was someone in 2011? A disaster, a terrible condition, bad windows, dirty, unsanitary, severe infections, and how much we steal, let's remember. And Milosavljevic's affair, and Bajec's affair, the great doctors and the affair, either, did not return. Today is a completely different situation. Let someone go and have a look. Turned, changed doors, windows, expanded, really, people, like that. We can build a commission and go from hospital to hospital. Not everything, but a lot, a lot of things have been done. Look what we've done. A new clinical center in Nis. It's a clinical center 2 in Belgrade. What happened to Stonestone? Nine years hasn't been done, stolen a lot of money, 19m euros missing. We finished the Stonestone, saved lives, they killed 9,800 people, shame one. How many accelerators have we bought? How many sanity vehicles did we buy? Is that true? It's true. Seven thousand specialists. Every year it's given to a hundred of the best kids. Twelve thousand people we hired. So, you can't say, no one can say we didn't do a good job. We're doing as much as we can, we're doing a lot better, and it's very, very visible, and it's only going to be when a clinical center is built in Novi Sad, when a clinical center is built in Kragujevac, yours. Projects have been made, money saved, slowly, we simply don't have a magic wand in seven years. But I congratulate you on the remarkable results of the work, and it's really better at every step visible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53289	Right on line, MP Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53290	All I have to say is that I agree with the fact that your ex-boyfriends robbed Serbia, both Gilas and Jeremic and who doesn't already, Dinkic, etc. Let's arrest them, let's arrest them, and let's go see what they stole in court and see after the legal punishment, that the property is seized, etc. Why should we just hear about them? I hope they're not so important, that now we have to deal with them here and when the health laws are. They can't be our fault right now. I do perform constructively, in the way I think and the party I represent, that the state of health needs to be improved and at all in the public sector, but don't look for excuses there by some who are quite infancy. As far as Serbia's economy is concerned, I agree with the coming "Folksvagen", of course, all those companies in the world vote are welcome, but let's not pretend that economic policy hasn't changed since 2012 and there are still abnormal subsidies in each job that continue to give land for free worth sometimes millions of euros, possible permits and administrative fees free of charge and thus endangers the Serbian businessman. Let's change that too, and that's a disastrous solution to the former government. I don't agree with that, and it needs to change, so let's see if we've made any obvious differences.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53291	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53292	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Parliament and Government are not the prosecution. I would be pleased if Zagorka Dolovac would do her job, when she finely sanctioned everything that happened by 2012. However, they warned by selecting both the prosecution and the judiciary in 2009 and at this point in time, so that we can list the judges we chose for the first time to perform that function. As far as subsidies are concerned. I have to be there against what the previous speaker said, because it's common knowledge that contributions to health care are derived from personal incomes. Without subsidies, it's hard to make this number of new jobs since these unfortunate people fired 400,000 people before us, which is 400,000 less contributions to the PIO Fund and to the Health Fund. Therefore, we could hardly renew these jobs without subsidies, thus providing contributions to health care and as GDP grows, so our health care will be getting better and better. The percentage that we single out is quite, compared to Europe, quite fine percentage of GDP, but when GDP increases, and we increase it, the bigger it becomes, the more money it will be for equipment, for wages, for medicines, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53293	The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53294	Just a few notes on the subject of these subsidies and former authorities. They have nothing to do with the good results we're doing on that plan, for one simple reason. These people, in addition to caring, especially about themselves and their pockets, did not like to do anything. These people were absolutely difficult, they hated them, they didn't think of anything that was useful to others, specifically for the state or for those people who, because of their irresponsibility, were left out of work because of their publicity and punitive behavior. So that they are engaged to provide these people with an alternative, by trying to bring investors. When did this happen? They didn't think of it. What we do today, we do it successfully. So, I remind you, Serbia has managed to attract investments as much as any other country in the region, even more than any other country in the region. In that sense, today is an extremely successful state. There are subsidy programmes, but you can only criticise them if you didn't want to see more precisely what these subsidies look like, where they're amounts and who they're meant to be, so you can look at who they're assigned to. And you might be surprised if you noticed that to a significant extent, I think last year, even the convincing majority were approved by the Serbian businessmen, not those who come from abroad. It's true, Mr. Risticevic. It doesn't work without guarantees. And it's true, it's not the amount they're talking about. They say on average 20,000-30,000 euros per job, it's not. On average, it's much less. I mean between 3,000 or 4,000 in an early place. When you look at it for a year, it's clear to you, anything that lasts longer than that, it takes every investment longer than that, it's clearly worth it to this country. Not to mention what others have done, who have always been good examples in the world. What subsidies they gave there when they needed them, and they needed many. Other countries were located where Serbia is today. Do you know how many giant subsidies were paid in Slovakia, like famous producers in the automotive industry? They were really paying it for 40,000, which we never did, in the workplace. Sixty grand a job, which we never did. And no one there resented it, because people knew how much it was worth. Here, we do it domestically. We are doing it seriously and responsibly in accordance with what is realistically ours, how much we can afford it based on what we have. No more than that. But under those conditions, we are once again more than successful. There were very controversial programmes of silent subsidies. There were programs that were to the point where they were disputed that they had been shot down afterwards. You know when those programs came true? Is it a surprise for someone if I say in the pre-election period of 2012, who then conducted them and why? Right in pre-election time. And how upside down so everyone falls before the law after. That, therefore, is not a question for us, but for those former ones, some say is not worth mentioning often. And I say good again. It's important to know that whatever wasn't worth it in this country, everything that wasn't right, everything that was wrong with the rule, somehow for the jinx, has always been connected with them, and it's always happened to them in their time. And who thinks it's an accident, his right. I'm kind of convinced, it's not an accident. And you know what the 60% and more Serbian people think. Here's what I'm doing. What was wrong with them in their time was no accident. Is he supposed to come back? To make that question clear, we need these things to remind us as often as possible. I'm telling you, you absolutely shouldn't. It's a very nice house for them.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53295	National MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic submitted to the 75th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53296	The law on the agenda is quite bulky and quite slow, I want to be inaccurate in many members. You've devoted a little time and you've entered into a quality check of professional work, and you've talked a little bit about overseeing the implementation of this law. So, knowing the situation on the ground and in health care, we know that order and responsibility in health care is very low. For this reason, we have submitted an amendment to Article 75 of this bill, where Article 4 has to be changed, so that the health care home, instead of providing for sanitary transport as well as the transport of patients for dialysis, independently or through another healthcare institution in accordance with the Act and the plan of the network, we add that the health home must provide Sanitary transport, as well as the transport of patients for dialysis. Why are we saying that? Because it can happen, it happens all the time in practice to say - we don't have a vehicle today, we have tomorrow or we don't have any, and that the patient, or his close relative who goes with him, has no one to talk to, no one to complain about, and no one is responsible for it. This is the biggest problem in health care today, because no one is responsible, because there is no order, no work and no responsibility, and there is no one responsible for what the patient and what the citizens are suffering. What is more important is that you pay attention when you say - supervision of the implementation of this law. I would like to see, not only for this law, but for many of the laws you formally prescribe from the EU, to see when you did an analysis of the effects of any law and when you found that something was wrong with implementing that law and when you brought it to the Assembly to change? Never. As it is, it'll stay that way. You have formally done what the EU asks you to do, you have prescribed it, and whether it is accepted on our reality, in our terms with our citizens, you do not take care of it, and I ask you most nicely to just supplement this article with the word – you must, instead – you should. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53297	Thank you, colleague Vukajlović. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go, colleague Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53298	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am constantly surprised by one finding that we do not need to talk about what the former regime was like. Why doesn't he need to talk? You need to talk, you need to talk all the time, no matter how many times I'm mine, and wherever I can tell you the crime they committed against their citizens while they were in power. What was happening in Serbia from 2000 to 2012, was a complete devastation of one state, its economy, its pension system, its health system, and now, these gentlemen hope that because someone may have forgotten what they were like in power to vote again, he was wrong. They know Serbia's citizens well how they were while they were in power of Jeremic, Djilas and Tadic and the whole click. When are you going to arrest them? ) Here colleagues earn – why not process. Because in the same assembly in 2010 and 2011, they passed laws that meant amnesty to them for all the crimes they committed against their citizens here in this room. I'll repeat only one foreign exchange law. When they made artificially, protected courses, made money from the state, changed the Foreign Exchange Act to avoid criminal liability, changed the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, changed the laws on incentives in the economy. Anything they could change so they could rob. And now they want to return to power. And how much morals do they have as they return to power, Jeremic, Djilas and Tadic? They're exorcising kids from 17, 18 and 19 on the street to fight with the police. That's the bottom. You can't describe that. These kids don't know what they were when they were in power. They don't know what they were like, but it's the easiest thing for a young man who's a minor to exercise full civil rights, but he's got no life experience, pushin' in front of the police or political inexperiences. Well, with those they want to come to power, to deceive them. It's the easiest thing to fool a young man. But it doesn't matter to them. They don't care if they go to jail. They don't care if someone gets hurt, as they don't care when they rule to force our police to beat up their political unsuspecting and even kill. And then, we don't need to talk about them. I'll talk wherever I can and as much as I can and when I can. To never return to power again. And let's get out of these stories about investors not being in need of incentives from the state. That budget, who does it belong to? I guess to the citizens. What is controversial about the allocation of incentives from this budget to create new jobs, regardless of the type and structure of investors, is it domestic, foreign, etc? Well, why the money then? He's coming back to the citizens. We want to keep every foot of state land? Let someone set it up, if it's 10 meters of city, construction, construction land, if someone is given a job for one man, maybe a meter, maybe five, I won't go in, but it's a new job. And that state property then has a purpose. It was used to improve the quality of life of citizens in the territory where this land is located. What's so controversial about that? What our people say, some think they're running politics - neither are they going, nor are they being guided. Well, you can't win without giving. You can't buy it if you don't pay. That's never happened. Does anyone ask what countries are doing in the environment? I see a certain disdain. When someone says something - something is invested, let's take a look, let someone answer me – where do pension-invalid funds come from? Here, Minister, answer me, although it is not your portfolio, but I will ask you about your portfolio – where is the full Health Protection Fund coming from? From work. At least that's what I think, and you challenge me if it's not true. Because the money paid by employees is returned to them in a certain way by improving the quality of health care. I think so. You can see that now. But can we, Minister, expect to have quality health care and pensions if we do not open factories in Serbia? Now, that's a problem we won't agree on with one part of the opposition. When it comes to the former regime, it's clear -- left hand, right pocket, missing factory, missing money, missing land. If they had been in power for four more years, the people would have disappeared, the whole nation. Not through wars, but through migration. So then we'd have a country where no one would live, we'd have cities where no one would live, maybe something a little older, like in villages. Well, that's the kind of future the former regime gave us. And all he's doing is starting with the government of Alexander Vukic in 2014 and to this day is to stop the process. And he stopped. It improves the quality of health care, and the more quality health care we have, we're making them more motivated to keep our citizens here and not to go around the white world.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53299	Thank you, colleague Arsic. The word is Borka Grubor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53300	Dear Chairman, honourable ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen MPs, I want on behalf of the citizens of Loznica and Podrinj, and on my personal behalf, to thank our President, Mr. Aleksandr Vukic, for everything he has done so far for our citizens, and especially for today laying the cornerstone for the new factory of the Chinese automotive company "Mint" in the industrial zone of Šepak, which will employ about a thousand people. This will know a new life for Loznica and the environment, because opening new jobs will reduce the unemployment rate. Young people will be more satisfied and will not go to the white world, and the Health Fund will be more money for new investments and new jobs. Also, I welcome the formation of health centres, i.e. The merger of general hospitals and health homes, because in Loznica in the same yard, dividing the same buildings, were two separate health institutions, which were the most harmful to patients, as well as the employed medical staff, especially young doctors who were more difficult to get the desired specializations. I thank our government and the Ministry of Health for all the investments that have been made in the local hospital, as well as for the reconstruction of the internal, breast and psych ward, which is under way, and whose investment is about 500 million dinars. It's also planned to renovate the surgical block, the infectious oncology department. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53301	Member of the 76th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the Faith of Radet. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53302	Minister, this amendment really should have been adopted. Otherwise, in every proposal and article, we insist that the legal norm must be precise, clear, unequivocal and that it does not leave the possibility of whether something is wanted or not. You say here: “The home of health can organize branches. ” It must say: “The home of health will organize... “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” Of course, if there are no conditions that you've predicted here somewhere, they won't, but as soon as you say they can, believe me, someone will estimate that they will, the other will estimate that they won't. We're generally surprised how the Republic Legislator's Office even releases these forms of members not only to your ministry, but to everyone else? I know Dejan Djurdjevic, and we know he's a good lawyer. I can't believe he's letting this stuff go. So, make sure you accept these amendments that don't hurt you, but only you and we will have a headache if it stays this way and if you leave it to anyone who's willing to do anything or not. A moment ago, when Mr. Arsic spoke of these former authorities, I thought at the moment that he had returned to the SRS. The man speaks, when I remember again, no, he stole the mandate, so he left. So, you're right about everything he said about these former authorities, but there's one problem. Alexander Seselj just asked you why you're not arresting these people. Who are you complaining to? Just now, my colleague Arsic is still looking in our direction, yelling like he's complaining to us. But we're the opposition, you're the government. I guess the government needs to react, huh? Imagine we're the government and we know who the thief is and we let him walk around doing what he wants? I actually realized that Arsic had just yelled at Nebojsa Stefanovic. He can't go directly, then he's over the line. Indeed, he did well, fellow Arsic. Nebojsa Stefanovic and other competent authorities should also be a little late for their work.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53303	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53304	Please, so where on me do you train strictness?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53305	I'm not practicing anything. I've let you go for 40 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53306	Well, I know, but you're letting it all go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53307	I didn't let anyone go, really.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53308	Dear colleague Marinkovic, you were a little off.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53309	Finish your sentence.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53310	We've established today, and Friday, too, a democratic principle of orderly communication, so please don't spoil it. It's not nice. He'll get angry with Arsic, and then he'll come back. So here again, a colleague wanted to protect Arsic and Nebojsa Stefanovic. No need, don't protect them from us, let everyone do their job. And you have to tell another truth, one part of those former authorities who have sinned against the law in the meantime have become your officials and state officials, so you have to clear up with them, and then with those who are walking you, who are trespassing, not yours, but our institutions, into the state institutions. There's also a mistake that's going to hurt a lot of people's heads that didn't react properly at the right time, but we'll see what happens next. Just one more question to the minister and his colleagues from the ministry, we have received here one large material from the Chamber of Medical Resources and healthcare technicians of Serbia. They've been correspondence with you since 2017 and say their problems haven't been solved. Honestly, we weren't getting too far, it's more of a matter of profession, but here's the thing, you probably don't know what it's all about now, either, but to see with your associates. But in the end, they wrote important information in large letters – as long as former adviser Tom Nikolic, Mr. Mr. Mrkic, protects his friend and does the family ties that someone has in SNS protect some criminal responsibilities, and they say Radmila Ugica, director of the Chamber, and what her daughter is doing in the Office of Marko Djuric, does that give her mother the right to steal? So, is this true you will also check it out, but since the other day we talked about Radomer Nikolic and his brother-in-law and the sister-in-law who brought Kruševac to Kragujevac for some functions, anything is possible. Just check it out, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53311	Thank you, colleague Radeta. Vladimir Orlic, I'm guessing right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53312	Yeah. It doesn't matter, of course, with the comments coming in...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53313	The mention of SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53314	It's probably out there somewhere in the caroron, watching some popular shows, so people from home send out what they think is interesting. We don't do these things. Anyway, on the subject of what the state does. You mentioned Minister Stefanovic. It is clear to everyone that there are some differences in this country between what the Ministry is doing and what the prosecution is doing and what the court is doing, on the third side. And yes, no one had any serious objections to the M.O.P.'s work. So what is their part of the job is done so professionally that you have those indicators that are measured at a quarterly level, an annual level, that say that the state in that domain is more successful than ever and that it no longer competes with those times that some here would like not to mention, with this time of collapse and destruction of everything by Gilas, Jeremic, their formerly yellow company, the DS, but today we compete with ourselves in the results. Theirs was, we know how and we're better than that. Now we are trying to make our results even better, in every quarter and among the ministries that are really going after the arm is the MUP. On the subject of what citizens see as a matter of justice, it is clear that the world cannot be pleased. When it was the subject of interest here and there by some former minister who belonged to the former joint "yellow company" DS, who appears to be gathering again. You remember their reactions - oh, well, this is political pressure. Oh, well, we're haunted now. Oh, now they're doing everything against us, because we're on the political side. And when one came and said here, you arrested no one, and no one was the object of criticism; I have not been able to ask myself, what did they complain so much together? What are they crying about today? Let's start with the officials who are still in charge today. From that Bora Novakovic, then on or to remember the former ministers, how many were here only the subject of the debate because they were the subject of the authorities' interest? What were they complaining about if no one was dealing with them? A much more interesting question – what are they complaining about now? Is it because a law has been announced to deal with the issue of origin of property? Is it possible that it's because they're planning to cross-reference with the incomes of the person, the officially reported one, and their assets that they acquired in the meantime? Well, to be seen from public work, and during public work, a business that has direct ties to politics, a job that is functional, could anyone with incomes such as the minister's salary or the pay of MPs, have acquired as many towers in return pastures or as much company as Dragan Gilas, who, beware, had a single order of sizes had traffic while he was in office, and then a few zeroes more on the annual level as he became someone and something in this country? Well, when these things are compared and there's something illogical about it, I think that's a very good reason for these people to be nervous today and to complain a lot more than when the police came to ask them how they were. When the question arises – how did Vuk Jeremic, whose grandmother's health, get 7.5 million from that Bruce Li from Hong Kong? That's a very good question and a very good reason to worry. And no matter how many times the competent authorities appear in their foundations, NGOs or companies, entrepreneurs' shops, whatever they have, whenever the authorities appear there, and they knock on the loudspeakers' voice -- "wow, injustice," "wow, political pressure." For thee know that he that knoweth not that is before the state, the law, the people, and even God, if thou wilt, is clean and innocent. The hook one who knows in advance he's got a reason to wait for him to worry. When we talk about this Gilas, Jeremiah, these Dvora chickens who got great millions while their pals were in power, if they were, they'd whine. The louder they get today, the easier it'll be for them to accept tomorrow that everything they've earned, they've come to think of themselves. If they need to be angry at someone, they're alone and if they need to be angry at someone, let them be angry at their crazy head.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53315	Thank you, colleague Orlic. The faithful Radeta is entitled to a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53316	This was a moment of honesty at first. He says that we use something that someone calls us on the phone, at the end of some show, at the end of the session, that, I don't know, we collect that kind of information. He says we don't do it; he says it to himself. Well, that's the problem. That's what to do. We have information and you've seen all these days while we've talked about this and we've given the minister the opportunity to check on the ground and check things out and answer us immediately, some promised to finish. So, the job of the MP is to find out about every possible problem in the field, wherever it is and as much as possible. So, where are they going to ask for a solution to that problem? Here, in this place. Who? The Minister in charge. If someone else understands the work of a MP, then it's a really serious problem. As far as criminals from the former government are concerned, the SRS' position has never changed on this issue. All those who have committed crimes both in the former government and in the current government and those who have been linked in any way to any of the authorities, all those who have participated in corruption affairs or have made it possible by their actions or by doing some corruption, should go to be prosecuted, to conduct an appropriate procedure, and to go to prison if this is decided by law. We've never strayed from that attitude and I don't see why someone in the debate with us is saying that someone's afraid of something, etc. We were never afraid of anyone but God, and that goes on. We insist that maybe it was just before I said that Arsic was yelling at Nebojsa Stefanovic, it was part of a joke, of course, but does not amnest Nebojsa Stefanovic. The fact that these are walking, and no one is in custody, and that the proper procedure is not conducted, and that he is in that chain. Don't explain to me a lawyer without modesty to a good lawyer whose jurisdiction is, so now tell me what the judiciary, whose judges are, etc. We know a great deal about the hierarchy and who he brought in and who he is, but we know where he's coming from with criminal charges. So, gentlemen, if you really want to fight crime, go, believe me, it's about time, there's gonna be serious problems if you don't do it, I guess you already feel it.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53317	Thank you, colleague Radeta. According to the amendment, Dr. Mihailo Jokic. Here you go, Dr. Yokic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53318	Once again, I would like to take the opportunity to say that the most important thing in these laws that have been passed in the domain of health care is that the advantage is given to people in relation to equipment. The problem with health care is that rewards and retaining them are the best. And these laws give the possibility that those who are worthy, those who know, can do more and earn more. Because the problem with us in Valjev is how to keep an orthopaedic operating on patients throughout Serbia. So he has to be given a chance to work at a clinical center, to work somewhere else. We've got a doctor who's successfully operating on the thyroid, etc. So these people who are worth must be rewarded, they have to be given a chance to work and earn, and that's just what we've done with these laws. That's why I commend the laws and commend the minister who led these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53319	Thank you, Dr. Yokic. The word has Professor Marko Atlagic. Here you go, Professor. Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53320	The Honorable Vice President of the National Assembly, respected ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, certainly that professional staff is very important, especially for the functioning of health care, but it is also important for education not only of the subjects, so to speak, from the medical profession, but from social sciences, to understand the system in which they live. We have a situation today that university professors are advocating street demonstrations, such as professors. Liver, university professor in Nis, etc. So, when he's very important, how important. I'm sorry there aren't any of these across the street, even the doctor among them was amongst the MPs. You see, we are in a very delicate situation today in health care. You, Mr. Minister, inherited the system when we were not on the European list of 35 countries during the party of the former regime. We're in 18 today. I don't have time to list the EU countries we left behind today. It's your credit, besides the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister, and today it's the President of the State. It's true, I'm glad we're looking at a comprehensive system today. You inherited a system that was totally torn apart in a material sense, financially and in a human sense. I must say, Mr. Minister, that the same people who sit across from us from the party of the former regime went to demonstrations on October 5th with the foreign intelligence services to destroy not only the government, but the system and the state of Serbia, and then they came to power on October 5th and stayed in power until 2012 and destroyed, robbed, not just the health system, but the entire economic and economic system. The latest analysis says they fired 573,500 workers. That's their effect. This is very important, ladies and gentlemen, the same people whose names I will now name, October 5th, are also not here today, walking on the street, and this is Cedomir Čupic, Cedomir Antic, who became a university professor on wings on October 5th, and yesterday calls for student demonstrations. Furthermore, Dusan Teodorovic called the latest earthquake, because you saw when the name of the president of the state of Aleksandar Vukic is mentioned, he shakes his head like this. The people call him the earthquake now. Further, Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic, Zoran Zivkovic, Bosko Obradovic, Dusan Petrovic, Boris Tadic, Dr Liveic and many others, instead of being here and gone, they walk on the street. The same people did that on October 5th. On the wings of October 5th, they occupied universities and universities. Today's elections go, five and 10 years, and they want to do it again, because they don't have references in international magazines to come into the same situation. The people recognized them. For this reason, Mr. Minister, I urge all students, all university professors not to allow individual irresponsible professors, such as Cedomir Antic, such as Milos Kovic and many others, to be abused, calling them to street demonstrations. Politics is run through political parties. And students and gentlemen professors, here you go, gentlemen professors, to political parties, and science through scientific journals and published monographs, etc. In that sense, however, I would like to invite more students and parents not to allow them to be abused. They're the same on October 5th. They're the same now without me saying their biographies. One of them, proposed for the president of the state in front of the alliance for the second robbery of Serbia, was the first to rob during the DOS, is Dusan Teodorovic, an academic. Do you know what he did? Well, he led the demonstration before October 5th, when the bombing of our country was, he left and went to the U.S. for two years and finished his jobs, hired his children to state colleges. Gentlemen, don't be abused by irresponsible teachers. It's yours to study and study, and when you do politics, you go to political parties. Everything else is a system crash. They don't hide it. The other day, an actor says, "I'm going to tear down the system, not the government," he says, "a system that's been built for 200 years, 200 years and a few years." They did it on October 5th. They came to power not by election, but by street. You know that Milosevic has not lost the election, and Kostunica has not won. There was no second round, the street route made a coup and stayed until 2012, robbed and destroyed the state, not only in health terms, Mr. Minister, as colleagues from the opposition party said, but also in the education system. Minister Sarcevic circled the education system after 12 years. You, Mr. Minister, you've circled the health system from the spills and we've come to a position where, like the entire system of economics, modernization goes, there's problems, there's difficulties, it's gonna be more difficult, many difficulties, but we'll overcome them. I warn citizens of the Republic of Serbia, students and professors not to allow honorary students, honorary professors to abuse them. Last night, on one television, Milos Kovic called for street demonstrations by students. Well, that's the professor who was in the administration a year ago, he didn't have any references. When you look at Thompson's list, they have zero, the mass of them leading zeroes have points. That's what you scientists know. In international magazines, no, as soon as we call them, actually, the state when it invites them and the European system to publish in scientific journals, European and worldly, there are none, but our home system, I publish to you, you to me, and from science very little. I call once again, gentlemen of the students, and many I know, many generations have raised students, and now I am raising, students and students, don't let irresponsible professors do you for the personal benefit of their abuse. You study, it's yours to study and deal, of course, and politics with a particular political party. Because this is where foreign intelligence services are involved to destroy the state, because the state is heading towards modernisation. This modernisation led by the president of the state and government, Mr. Minister, and most of the MPs in this house, no one can stop anymore. The biggest problem with the former regime's MPs is that we here from the ruling and part of the opposition are working. They've never held a session here. Look at the statistics up there. Some came at five o'clock in the afternoon for morning coffee, usually I would say – good morning, Mr. George Vukadinović, Vlahu, at five o'clock in the afternoon for coffee. Borko Stefanovic, his pass house was this tall home, coming 15 minutes and leaving. I don't want to pick them up any further. The biggest problem with them is that Aleksandar Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the ruling majority are working. They'd like nothing to be done. It was during their regime. It is true that Mr. Arsic said that all the laws were adjusted not to comply. Look, please, just the Criminal Code, what did they bring it into? It takes time to make it right, and sometimes, believe me, history says, I'm a historian, it'll fit. Sometimes fate, what they did, will welcome them. Some in prisons, some in God's name, and a little longer in prisons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53321	Thank you, Professor Atlagic. The People's MP Natasha Sp submitted to Article 78 of the amendment. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53322	Mr. Minister, we've reacted in this article in Section 4 because this is where we give the opportunity to educate the branches of a polyclinic. It is said – yes, and we asked that, in some ways, it be mandatory, of course, by looking at the state throughout Serbia, based on the capacity of these polyclinics. Now here I want to potentiate this relationship between the Ministry and the Health Insurance Fund towards private clinics. You indicated on Friday that it seems to me that two years ago the Ministry and the Fund signed a contract with private clinics regarding cataract surgery and artificial insemination. We think it's necessary to make a few more contracts. First of all, we think of the possibility of viewing the magnetic resonance, because as part of private polyclinics there is, there is such information officially on their site, 23 magnetic resonances, which, you will agree, would greatly facilitate the work of public health institutions because of a large number of people looking for this kind of review. Also, what we think is necessary is to see what else is needed by the polyclinics that exist, and it's about the frame. We believe that in primary health care, therefore, and also at the level of polyclinics, it is necessary to strengthen the fit, as far as the specialist profession for cardiovascular diseases is concerned, because you yourself said that this was not officially introduced into the law, although you are aware of it as the minister of this portfolio, as well as everyone present from your ministry, that this problem is actually the biggest problem. The biggest reason why recent studies have also shown that over 50% of people who save their lives are precisely from cardiovascular diseases. The Finns did so in a way that preventative checks and, above all, early recognition of hypertension, obesity and all that can lead to these diseases have reduced the disease by 70%. At least we have a lot of young doctors who can start working, get on with that specialist profession. We believe that this would be necessary and that it would be possible for these private owners of polyclinics to agree with the agreement, i.e. with the contract with you and the examinations, to enable, while other young doctors are not educated enough, until they complete their specialist studies, in order to solve the problem. I have to potentiate the excellent work of the Kragujevac student clinic. Have you ever been, I don't know, but it's a long-lived polyclinic, which is really at the highest level of the frame, but what you need is a student polyclinic and what it takes to get into the Kraguje clinical center, we're going back to those employment quotas, to systematization, and to the necessity of you giving consent to this employment plan, they're health associates. It is thought of, above all, psychologists, defecologists, biologists, physicists who are mostly in radiology and employment. We had such a case in Kragujevac last year, but psychologists are necessary, because in the system of health care of students, within the student polyclinic in Kragujevac, they have the opportunity because many of them, in the end, come from different backgrounds and we are a major university center, maybe they don't know which way to go to find a way to remove some of their health problems. We believe, given that the town of Kragujevac, and I believe that such a situation in Nis, Novi Sad, Belgrade, has the need for health associates of the profession, that you should give the opportunity to personally, as a minister, to see how much Kragujevac is needed and how much more you can hire clinical psychologists that, believe me, we have, many of them do not work, and we have such bright examples that they are already on the second, third year of doctoral studies, that they have completed all education, that the state has not even paid them, but are from private pockets and their parents, and that they are now without a job. In order for this to be rounded up both at the Kragujevac Clinical Centre and at the Student Hospital and everywhere, it would be necessary for you to look at it as soon as possible and give them the consent to hire these people, because it is necessary for these homes and ultimately throughout Serbia. This is very important and they asked us to point out, to tell us when the conditions will be that you, as the Ministry and the Fund, with these private polyclinics and for these others, those who want, of course, to integrate them, to call them, to sign contracts for these other types of examinations and what patients need.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53323	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. The word is made by Minister Lonchar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53324	We're working very hard on an analysis that could still be signed by the contract, and, secondly, it's been done around that employment, and the staff plan for the next five years for all of Serbia, taking care of what is necessary and what is necessary for people to be employed, and these things will expand.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53325	Thank you, Minister Lonchar. The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the 82nd Amendment. Here you are, colleague Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53326	Since somehow at the end of the amendment and on this law, at least the ones I signed, it seems to me that we should round up so little what we've been talking about these bill proposals these few days. In fact, this debate of ours has spread to the state of health in general, and we have seen health as one of the most important pillars of every society, including ours. I think we've had good communication with the minister, and he's obviously with his colleagues, because during the debate, we've been getting answers to certain questions. There may have been some dissonant tones here and there, especially when some colleagues from the ruling coalition somehow acted as if we had something personal against anyone. Simply, the minister was in some things more critical than they were. Okay, maybe, everyone has a certain need to be courting someone, which we also understand, because we're not demagogues, we don't think being a member of some political party is a bad thing, we don't think that people who are party members are leper. On the contrary, we think that as many people as possible in Serbia should be party members and deal in an indirect or direct way with politics. As far as we're concerned, it would be our favorite if they were the most in the SRS, to attract them with our own program, our ideas, our own ideology. We are not determined whether someone is in a position because he is or is not a member of the political party. We don't think, for free you defend yourself against it, you know, that it's normal for you to have authority, your party at the moment, as the largest in that coalition, and that you won't put your people on certain functions. You will, and it's normal. The question is, are the right people to choose, do they choose people who are professional? I'll tell you what, you insisted that the ministers tell you an example, some name. Here, I will, as always direct to you an example. Zemun Health Home, for many years there was Director Dr Joksimovic, I guess your colleagues know him, the man is a member of the SPS, probably and now, retired, I haven't met him in a long time, doing a great job. Even today, you will not meet someone in Zemun who has had contact with the home of health who will say something bad about Dr Joksimovic. When we, the Serbian radicals, exercised power in Zemun, our President Dr. Seselj was the president of the municipality, he urged Dr. Joksimovic, from the then rival party, to ask him what it takes for the municipality to do in order to equip the House of Health. He made a specification, not at the moment, but after a while. According to this specification it was all obtained and for many years, since other city municipalities did not do so, the House of Health Zemun was an example of the best equipped Home of Health. There were no problems at the time, no restrictions on employment, so there were a lot of good experts. When the advances took over, but they took over, in the Zemun municipality, they did so by buying four councilmen. One of those councilmen is Ksenija, now I can't remember her last name, which was bought on promise to be the director of the House of Health in Zemun. You have driven Dr Joksimović, such a man, and you have appointed Xenia as Director of the House of Health, and no one would mind the very fact that she has become your member, but now go to Zemun, ask if there is a citizen satisfied with the state of the House of Health of Zemun, ask the doctors and sisters what kind of relationship that Ksenija, director of the House of Health, will they all tell you, believe me, Ministers - we have a less problem than its haughtiness. These are the problems we were actually talking about, not mentioning any concrete examples. If she had done her job as God commands, if the people who communicate with her were satisfied, what would be the problem with her being a member of your party? Well, you're the government, of course, that you're going to put your people on key functions. Please, Mr. Mirinkovic, just two more three things to finish with the minister. We spoke, Minister, of small wages, of salary increases, of your efforts to make it even more. Please, Minister, pay attention to these other things in hospitals, in health homes. Pay attention to progress. Pay attention to people's references to specializations. Pay attention to the relationship, that's what I've been telling you, senior colleagues to younger doctors. You spoke when you claimed you invited the best students. That's right. Do you know where the problem is? You know for sure. The problem is also the creation of those best students. Every professor of medical school knows that. This is what every student who has completed medicine, how many young people just walk through college and under what circumstances it is classified as high grades and high averages in these best. And instead of trying to learn something, he's still boasting because he's here because of Mom or Dad. These are, believe me, serious problems. We also distracted you, and a colleague from the SDPS talked about it, and unfortunately on her case, you have to take care of those children who have permanent problems, whose health problems are not solved with their 18 years. Natasa Jovanovic suggested that parents, guardians, it doesn't matter what they call it... Simply, there are some children who have to have parental care for the rest of their lives, and there are no longer employers, other than state authorities, who are able to keep one such parent on sick leave. This is just reality, and we also have to imitate our regulations with reality. One more thing, Minister, children who suffer from the most severe diseases, often their parents are with them in hospitals where they lie, mostly children who suffer from cancer, you see little that for these parents a little more humane conditions. There are no objections for children. Children are treated, treated, in top conditions, but a little humanity and according to those parents who have to go around some corners to sleep to be with their child. I end up with this sentence, impatient fellow Marinkovic. Mr. Minister, believe that you will bring these laws here very quickly to discuss some changes again, but please, what we have told you and what we have proposed through the amendments, it may have been uncomfortable for you to say publicly – I accept this amendment, look at this, give it to your associates, to your services, and through some future changes, install our proposals and initiatives. All are well-intentioned and all in the interest of Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53327	Thank you, colleague Radeta. I'm not impatient. It's even very interesting for me to listen to you, but for the sake of time. Dr. Zlatibor Lonchar, Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53328	To thank you for all the suggestions. If you want to agree, it was never again taken care of by sick children and their parents and it is one of our priorities and we will continue to work, because there is always more and better to be done and there is no dilemma. We'll keep that going. Now I've asked around about the Zemun case, the Zemun Health Center. It has nothing to do with the Ministry of Health. The Zemun Health House is set up by the City Assembly, city government. The director you mentioned is not the director for six months. She's not the director there. This director's been arranged. So, in the meantime, some things happen and solve. There'll be less room for that kind of thing now that it's on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53329	Thank you, Minister Lonchar. The People's MP, Natasha Sp, submitted to Article 82 of the amendment. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53330	The government of the Republic of Serbia declared in 2019 a year of safety and safety at work, and that is a good decision, but since we are now discussing a member of the 82nd Law, which regulates the Department of Health Protection of Workers, let's see, Mr. Minister, what happens in practice. So it is not only for the protection and health of workers at work of your ministry, but also for the Ministry of Labour, Combat and Social Affairs. You can't have the ministry as a ministry of certain problems that happen ad hoc to solve without being systematically done. If this is already the decision of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, then take it from whether employers, in addition to verifying the health book of permanent workers, are further working on their preventive health care and when there is an injury to work, and there is important your inspection supervision, and other ministries, is all that is prescribed by the Labour Act, collective contract and what is prescribed through this and other laws of your ministry, being carried out in the work? Unfortunately, no. Last year, 53 workers died in Serbia. Who knows how many were injured at work. Do you know, Mr. Minister, that there are so many boastful individual private employers who, besides breaking these norms of a bad labour law, who are asking us to put out of force, make sure people don't worry, or put pressure on them, imagine, and there have been such cases on doctors when a worker is hurt to write to him – write down what kind of sickness he has had, and don't seduce them because they know what to do next. Namely, under the existing Labour Act, a worker who suffers a job injury, if he has permanent disability and can no longer perform the job he has done, must be moved to another workplace. But you know when? That's why the law is bad, and we're asking for a whole new labour law to be passed. Just in case, if there's an adequate job for that worker. You know how many employers are going to say – well, we do not have an adequate job. So remember what these yellow criminals were doing, Vlahovic and Djelic and other mob clicks when they fired as many thousands of workers in the Kragujevaska flag. They were obliged to form so-called protection workshops for disabled workers. There's no Arsic here now, but he remembers that, probably there are other SNS deputies here, and Martinovic, who came to the O.R. They voted in law, where the factories that they robbed and fired people were shut down, why they sold into old irons such equipment and machines, drove no one to know where, in fact, they knew about their own pocket, they didn't form those protective workshops. It's a typical example of "Impra" Kragujevac, which is somehow integrated into the system that these people have a job. So, Mr. Minister, I have one more specific question for you. You've seen and heard from our presentations that we're going to point out that with this private sector you find more modes and ways to get involved in the health care system, that the fund pays them like the pharmacies that have been identified with pharmacies, there are still how many years and I can say that this works well, and this is especially when it comes to issuing prescription drugs, now it's six months. Right? That you don't have to go, here in a specific case, my mother and other old people, come and take their therapy at the pharmacy, you don't have to wait for order again, if there's no need for that. But if we give the private sector the opportunity to do these work-medical jobs, it's not gonna be good. Can they appear in a tender for that job that's my particular question? Because as you've seen from these possibilities, there are examples of numerous abuses of privates that threaten a doctor. Even a doctor from Novi Sad had to call a lawyer, a privateer came in, the worker hurt himself, and he said this boasting man – well, write him sick for up to 30 days, not to let her find out, to go on, to process all that injury? Because he knows then he has a duty to take care of things further. After all, to strengthen this and in medicine work, that they know what kind of disease it is, when that man got sick, to monitor it, whether he improved his health, whether he had permanent damage, whether he should be referred to a disability commission, and not to have these abuses that we had in practice, so these yellow and Tomica and the society and that Vukajlović had been there, they sent healthy people to a disability pension. So, all of this has to be systemically regulated now, and that this issue is also very important, in the field with another ministry office, especially, I'm going back to the beginning of the story, which this year has been declared a year of safety at work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53331	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. The amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic to article 86. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53332	We here specifically intervene with the amendment to make things clear. In fact, it is about dental medical services, according to the law – they carry out specialist consulting activities in the field of dental medicine. Well, in order to do it, it's in accordance with the law. The point is something else. We have here as a society and how we express a problem with those young people who finish medical schools, who, according to the profession of dentists. They are literally compared to colleagues who are doctors, if they can thus be compared and if such comparison is appropriate, even more endangered. In fact, the SRS always insists that any man who graduates from Serbia's university be of use to this Serbia, to try society and state in some way to hire him, to gain knowledge, to put that knowledge at the service of both the state and its people, as some would say. But we have a very specific case here. Most young colleagues who finish dentistry begin their work with a private. I say most, not all, but most. Why? Because they are limited by equipment, by number of ambulances, by technical conditions, etc. The state is not in a position to enter into such an investment right now. We have one example on the other side. We have when it comes to encouraging young people who want to deal with agriculture. In order to stimulate them, the State also provides them with favourable conditions for them to deal with this activity in private. Here, these young colleagues, dentists, I'm telling your colleagues, they need to, after the internship, the period where they have this duty of internship, to give them the opportunity to do private work on their own. It may have been easier once, because we had a famous factory to produce equipment in the area of dentistry. It was called "Jugodent". For those of you who are a little older, it means something, but when these five-octobars came, they said it was wrong, we can't produce equipment, we're here to buy equipment, the Jugodent was overcome technologically, pre-named with the number of employees, and here we're denied the possibility of providing this technical equipment from a domestic manufacturer, but aside from putting what was there. What can the state do here? According to us, Serbian radicals, we should consider that those who are interested, and above all young dentists, to deal in private, to have the state provide them with at least approximate conditions, as for these young people who deal in agriculture. To provide them with the ability to borrow, to take equipment, to make it for some reasonable period, to be with some acceptable interest. A certain number will be decided. Look, you're your own witnesses, you're getting more and more developed that so-called. dental tourism, when it comes to Serbia and it consists of not a small number of patients coming to Serbia from day to day to use these services provided by our dentists, for a simple reason, for rational behaviour. This quality that our dentists provide is the same or almost the same as the one that is in Western European countries, but the price is much lower and that is the activity that besides this price aspect also has this propaganda effect. Those who use services pass it on and recommend our doctors. Let's try to at least make it possible in the next period, let's give these people a chance to say -- you have a chance to do it in private, so they don't work, they work more or less, not to talk about how much compensation they pay in private and how much they do, to prove themselves as young people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53333	Thank you, colleague Mircic. I'm just asking the MPs to comply with the time you have. Just take care of the weather. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 100th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53334	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment of mine applies to Article 100. I'll remind you that the 100th member is talking about university clinical centers. Of course, we know that the University Clinical Center is an institution that unites at least three organisational units such as institutes, clinics, etc. What bothers me in this member of the law, and you know, and why I submitted the amendment is that, in addition to, of course, the headquarters of the university clinical center in the center, in a place where there is a medical school, means a medical institution that educates doctors, but it can also be established organisational units outside the seat, which is fine again, but the law says, only in the territory of the administrative district of whose territory is the university clinical center. I specifically don't think it's right that this thing has to spread. Namely, I come from Nis, we know Nis has a university, has a medical school, has a university clinic, and within that, we have a university clinic and a clinic, like, in Nisa Ban, we have institutes as part of the University Hospital of Pauh Nessel, we have a hospital for pulmonary diseases, we also have a specialized psychiatric hospital in Topoca. But that's all in the wider territory of the city of Nis, or the Nis-Governmental district. But in the immediate vicinity of Nis and Nisavsky County, we also have the Fishing Banja, we don't need to emphasize what it deals with, we have Sokobanju, which is on the territory of Zaječar County, we have more spas in the territory of Toplički County, on the territory of Kursumli municipality, and therefore the law would not provide for the possibility that these organisational units, besides those located in the territory of the administrative circle could be from another neighbouring district, and even to be a remoter administrative district, because we know that south of the Shumadian district than the town of Kragujevac, only Nis has a university and a University Clinical Center. What about some other places and why they wouldn't give this, let's say, advantages, a little incentive and some institutions of this health type. First of all, the Banjian type who would enter could be part of the University Clinical Center, which, of course, is normally located, whose headquarters is located in the administrative district's territory.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53335	Thank you, fellow Saviæ. On Article 106, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Dr Darko Laketic. The government and the Health and Family Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric to Article 113. Here you go, colleague Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53336	Mr. Minister, you're in one mud, not only did you want to find that state, but I have to explain it to my colleagues. There is political responsibility and criminal responsibility, there are other kinds of responsibilities, but now we're going to put them aside, but just something of these two. When it comes to political responsibility, the citizens of Serbia are those who conduct the procedure and they said what they had to say, but there is a criminal responsibility. Don't go back more than seven years, you have no right to do that. I've seen that a number of colleagues have expressed doubts about the bias of the judge. That's not good. When we speak on the Committees of Justice and elsewhere, then everything is fine, and now we say they are not processed because the judges were elected in 2009 and 2010. Not true, a large number of judges were elected and later, and this job should be done. For that kind of struggle, you have the support of the SRS. Mr. Minister, we're going to give you another kind of help to solve these problems faster. First of all, we're not going to praise you, maybe there's something to praise you, because your SNS colleagues are doing it incomparably better than we are. They can do that and let it remain their obligation, and we want to draw your attention to some of the cases that you show interest in solving. This should be our goal, so we are directly helping solve the problem in such a way. It is normal for the minister, the MPs and other elected persons to do the best they can and can, everything is different and not normal. The citizens, first of all, go to the polls and give confidence, but there's something they can't solve, and then they turn to the system. In this case, we are in the domain, in the phase of the discussion of health laws, in this case when it is necessary to treat.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53337	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53338	My colleague Marinkovic, just one case, must not be told.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53339	Time, I've got a big minus, I've really given your colleagues a lot of time. Excuse me, colleague Perich, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53340	In order for you to have more time for the essence, there is one case in which a rare disease is involved, and you said it costs about 500 000 euros on an annual basis, and that is probably so. I have an answer ahead of me from the Health Insurance Fund, where the catridge needed is a child who may be a champion in the world, and in Serbia... (Goldibor Loncar: That's settled. It's not settled, Mr. Minister, today it's a kid in control. It hasn't been solved yet. Every seven days he has to come to control, because now the medications he prescribes can't be given for a longer period of time, it's been like that before. Thank you for trying to... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53341	Thank you, now we'll give the Minister a word. (Greto Peric: They said it would be resolved, it has not been solved yet. Minister, do you want a word? Here you go, Minister Zlatibor Lonchar.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53342	I apologize, if we're talking about a child who needs a catridge to be taken, I personally arranged for that child to be taken by a ketridge and to be. Here, I'll check it out in five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53343	Thank you, Minister. The amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic to Article 116. Here's a colleague of Ljubenović's.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53344	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we believe that it is necessary to define a certain matter in the adoption of the Health Protection Act, so we in the SRS have submitted this amendment to Article 116. Article 116 refers to the director of a health institution, more specifically to the public competition procedure for the selection of a director. We have proposed to amend the position 22 in this article, so that it is said – the director of a health institution is appointed for a period of four years and can be re-appointed. The opinion of the SRS parliamentary group is that such an amendment makes it clear that the director of health institutions can be appointed several times. The proposer, in his explanation, states that this legal solution has been introduced in order not to limit the term of office of the director, who is shown to be an exceptional manager and manager. Of course, good health authorities should be encouraged to stay in those places, should be kept from going abroad, which has become a massive phenomenon in our healthcare workers over the past few years, with Serbia's country at a huge loss. At the same time, it is also important to point out that directors of health institutions who do not carry out their work in accordance with the law, who embarrass their profession, should be relieved of their duties and that in the future they cannot carry out the function of directors. The adoption of this amendment by the SRS parliamentary group would make a difference between the two categories of directors, and those who do their job well enabled to appoint multiple times as director of a health care institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53345	Thank you very much, fellow Ljubenović. Member of the 127th amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Here you go, Professor.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53346	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. I'm going to run here as part of my amendment to run for one topic that's more of a theme for this than many stories that could be heard. It's a good thing the laws, the health laws, are on the agenda today, and they match the 20th anniversary of our country's criminal bombing. The opportunity to point out once again the disastrous consequences of this bombing on human health and the environment. Since I'm a member of the Assembly Commission for the investigation of these consequences with a special reference to this bombing, that is, these missiles with the impoverished uranium, to remind you of the missiles with the impoverished uranium used to destroy anti-arming weapons, means tanks. In the impact of this missile on the target, a temperature of over 3,000 degrees develops and nanoparticles are released that go into the air and that are harmful and can be lethal to all those who breathe them. Also other particles that go to the ground and are dangerous over the food chain, means land, grass, animals, man. To our land, to remind you, the villains fired over 30,000 of these missiles. As I respect the Commission's view that I'm not coming out of the data we've come up with, I'll just remind you that by bypassing the field that was most exposed to the fact of these missiles, which is Vranje, Omlječevica, Dobro Selce, Borovac, Žbevac and in conversation with survivors and the sick, the stories are shocking, and the images are very disturbing. Do I have more time?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53347	Finish your sentence, Professor, no problem. Thank you, Professor Boyich. The amendment was submitted to Article 132 by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to Article 141 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Stojanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53348	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister of Associates, I have submitted an amendment to Article 141. Proposal for a health care law. With this amendment of mine, I have asked for the power of the minister to separate in the most sensitive matters from the authority of the ministry. This amendment concerns the Ethics Committee of Serbia. The law provides for the Ethics Committee of Serbia to appoint and resolve the Serbian government, which we think is fine. However, in the SRS, we do not agree that this appointment and resolution is going to the minister's proposal, but rather on a proposal from the competent ministry. It is inappropriate for the minister to be given this much authority on this highly sensitive area. On the other hand, the law does not specify the necessity and conditions, which and how can be proposed and appointed as an Ethics Committee member. As the bill says - members of this committee are selected from the ranks of experts who have significant results in the work, as well as a contribution to health care and professional ethics of healthcare professionals and humanistic sciences. This is all right, but no single person, even if he's a minister, can decide such sensitive things on his own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53349	Thank you very much, colleague Stojanovic. The amendment was submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic to Article 151. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53350	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Article 151. The draft health care law refers to the position of health associates within the healthcare system and prescribes which professional qualifications and specialisations healthcare professionals must have in order to carry out certain tasks. However, what is not precisely defined and we have tried to specify our amendment with our amendment is the position of health associates within the healthcare system, because their position in relation to the other health care employees is unequal. In your explanation, however, as a reason for non-acceptance, you pointed out the opposite, but for us such an explanation is totally unacceptable because in practice it is completely different and health associates definitely have an unequal status. It is often the case that a job to be performed by a health associate is performed by a medical worker, who does not have a professional qualification for it. I'm specifically talking about jobs that a defecologist often performs a nurse technician, and this specifically refers to the diagnostic part. Since the medical worker completes the full examination, there is a slow shut-down of formation sites for certain defecologists. That is why we believe that this amendment should have been accepted and given more attention to healthcare associates, especially in terms of hiring them, and you should always keep in mind that where the medicine stops, the defectology begins. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53351	Thank you, colleague Nikolic. On Article 168, the amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Darko Laketic. The government and the Committee on Health and Family accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Nada Kostic to Article 181. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Darko Laketić to Article 206. The government and the Committee on Health and Family accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Ljiljana Mihajlovic submitted to Article 219 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Mladen Grujic to Article 221. The government and the Committee on Health and Family accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Mladen Grujic to Article 223. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Dragan Jovanovic submitted to Article 223 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Health and Family accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic submitted to the 265th amendment. Here you go, colleague Vukajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53352	If Article 264 states that health institutions should comply with their general acts and organisation of work with the provisions of this law within 12 months, then it would logically be that Article 265 also respects this deadline and that it is unnecessary to wait two years to determine the number of pharmaceutical inspectors required to comply with this law, for a simple formal and practical reason – to speed up the employment of young professionals on the employment records and the conditions. So what I just said was that this law is quite slow, so you've left a lot of time for its implementation, but unnecessary time, at the expense of citizens and experts. What I wanted to ask the minister is this. Please respond, this statement of gratitude by a patient to a particular doctor. That's what you predicted to show gratitude at the rate of one average salary. What does that mean, under what conditions, are you part of the responsibility for small wages, for low medical earnings passed on to patients? I'm asking you to answer. I may be wrong somewhere, but I'm asking you to answer this, because the public needs to know what this is about.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53353	Minister, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53354	If it's not a problem, just give it, which member, what is it, since we don't have it. Bring it in, so we don't waste any time.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53355	Page 106, conflicts of interest, paragraphs 5 and 6.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53356	Thank you, colleague Vukajlović. Minister, do you want to respond immediately? What member, colleague, do you repeat?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53357	On page 106, Articles 2, 3 and 4, it is somewhere: "Extremely from Article 5's position, showing appreciation for a gift of less value, i.e. advertising material and samples which are not expressed in money or securities of value and whose individual value does not exceed 5%, and the total value does not exceed the amount of one average monthly salary, without taxes and contributions in the Republic of Serbia, is not considered to be corruption, conflict of interest, or private interest in accordance with the law". Please explain that.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53358	Thank you, colleague. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53359	Just so you know, and for all of you to know, we were obliged to take over, it's something that's been taken over by the Anti-Corruption Act, nothing else. It's only in the original passed by the Anti-Corruption Act. That's all it's about, nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53360	Thank you, Minister Lonchar. The word is by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53361	That's what I'm saying, and we keep telling me from the Serbian Radical Party, that you're just cheating, that there's not enough law analysis and that there's not enough law enforcement in real life to take care of. So we have to bring it in much more practical. This still remains controversial. So, you haven't answered anything, you haven't explained anything, it's not clear to me as a graduate lawyer, and I'm asking you somewhere to see if this is okay or not, so you're going to talk to the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53362	Thank you, colleague. The amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic to Article 269. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed a search on all amendments, I conclude the examination of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda – Proposal for a law on general use, to search in particular. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by MPs: Nemanja Sarović, Miljan Damjanović, Nikola Savivić, Tomislav Ljubenović, Milorad Mirčić, Ružica Nikolic, Aleksandar Seselj, Natasa Jovanovic, Dubravko Bojic, Vjerica Radeta, Sreto Perić, Dr Darko Laketic, as well as the Committee on Health and Family. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Health and Family, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The Health and Family Committee proposed amendments to Articles 4 and 16 of Title 12 and Articles 83 and 84 to one amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. We must ask the proposing representative to make his statement on this amendment, so I ask the Minister, or the Proposer's representative, to declare himself on this amendment to the Committee on Health and Family, which has proposed amendments in Articles 4 and 16 of the title of Chapter 12 and Articles 83 and 84. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53363	We agree.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53364	Thank you, Minister Lonchar. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 4th amendment. Here you go, colleague Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53365	Article 4 regulates items of general use and we have amended interventions. He has six points where such a general description of what is part of the subject matter of general use. Under point 2) are toys, we have suggested adding: “and objects designed for children and children. ” The ministry, or government, did not accept this amendment, explaining that this was accepted by the 2009 Toy Safety Directive, the EU Directive. Here, again, the question why do we always rely on what the EU recommends if we do not benefit from it? One more thing, Mr. Minister. You may have met former radicals, they look a little bit like us, but we're not the same. I would never question your integrity. It's secured by a machine, and once a Kertridge is secured, which costs 75,000 dinars, and imagine when a child has surgery in the first day of his life, and now he's going to preschool. There's a big and huge desire for parents to try to do something. And they, as parents, give enormous gratitude to the University Children's Clinic in Tirshaw. They say they've shown enormous concern, profession and all, and that's what I said a few days ago, when it comes to the quality of our doctors, we can be proud and compete with the whole world. There we are, not in the 18th place, a lot of us are in front of that 18th place, but as people we need to do something else, and that is, the situation is like this, someone has promised to change the rule of medical and technical means and aids from this republican fund, at the time of the change. Well, that's when you see a chance to meet these people. Regarding these two laws: the Protection Act and the Social Insurance Act, I didn't exactly count 20, maybe even more regulations. There's a lot of that matter that you should be in charge of, and it is for adoption, it is for the appointment of some bodies in these health institutions of public interest. Turn that around, that's what we're proposing for principled and practical reasons, that's what needs to be passed on to the ministry, something to the government, and the minister to deal with these essential issues more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53366	Thank you, colleague Perich. On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. The word is "Verica Radet." Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53367	A strange explanation of why the amendment is not accepted, and Article 4 on which we intervened with the amendment speaks about what subjects are general uses, i.e. groups of these items, among other things, cosmetic products. We have proposed to say that it is also a packaging for the packaging of these products, and now the Ministry says that I cannot accept it because the name of this group of items is in line with some relevant EU regulation, which we are creeping out as soon as it recommends the EU, is life-threatening, believe me, but you are adding further. The packaging for all groups of items of general use is subject to the regulation of a sublegal act, which regulates the area of materials and articles in contact with food, including products intended for infants and children under the age of three to facilitate feeding and sucking, relaxation, sleep and packaging. So this part refers to the amendment of counterpart Sreta Periæ, whom he spoke of a little while ago, but well, it can also be a technical mistake but good. The point is that this amendment should have been adopted and that, of course, the packaging of cosmetic products should be in the category of general use and regulated by law. Sublegal acts should exist and this is not disputed, but sublegal acts do not have a wider use. You know, a sublegal act is specifically for a group of people who are working on the application of this law, and the law is something that, I say, is more accessible to any interested citizen, it will be easier to see what some law prescribes, in which way it prescribes, while for sublaws it is not quite so. Otherwise, we think that this law should also be devoted to, the relative matter covered by this law should pay attention, especially when it comes to cosmetic products and when it comes to toys, when it comes to children's playgrounds, when it comes to children's playgrounds, you know that everything and everything is placed there for toys, the one who organizes children's birthdays in toys or the one who organizes playing children's playgrounds is only looking to pass as cheaply as possible, not care about the quality, not taking care of children's health care, which is the most important thing, we read a little bit in the media that some of the toys or its packaging are not very healthy, that they are cancerous, like this, of course, we don't believe everything we read in the media, but to you as a person of the profession and competent for this, at the end, we recommend only more control and more careful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53368	Thank you, colleague Radeta. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. The government and the Committee on Health and Family accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the law. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to Article 6 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Health and Family accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the law. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 8 of the amendment. The government and the Health and Family Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the law. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. The government and the Health and Family Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the law. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Milorad Mircic submitted to the title of the amendment. The government and the Health and Family Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the law. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenović. The government and the Health and Family Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the law. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. The government and the Health and Family Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the law. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Nikola Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53369	Just for a little while. This is almost three years of this call and SRS MPs have submitted a large number of amendments and this is the first time that this number of amendments has been passed in one law, which says that we are doing our job in one way that certainly corresponds to one parliamentaryism. I wish the previous authorities had acted like this in some other situations. Now we would not have had a situation to complain about the former regime, because we had already submitted many amendments that were to be adopted, but later it turned out that we were right, so they had to change the law for some reason just so they wouldn't go out to meet us who were opposition MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53370	Thank you, fellow Saviæ. The amendment, which is added after article 25a, was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the head of IX and section 1 above Article 62 of the amendment was submitted by the Committee on Health and Family. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I would like the representative of the motion to make a statement on the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53371	Sustained. We agree.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53372	The amendment shall be accepted by the Proposer. The Committee on Health and Family has submitted to the section above Article 63 of the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I would like the representative of the motion to make a statement on the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53373	I agree.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53374	Thank you, Minister. On behalf of the above section 3 above Article 70, the Committee on Health and Family submitted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I would like the representative of the motion to make a statement on the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53375	I agree.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53376	Thank you, Minister. By the name of Section 5 and the name above the Article 73 of the amendment, the Committee on Health and Family has submitted. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I would like the representative of the motion to make a statement on the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53377	I agree.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53378	Thank you, Minister. On behalf of section 6 above Article 74, the Committee on Health and Family has submitted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I would like the representative of the motion to make a statement on the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53379	I agree.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53380	Thank you, Minister. The amendment, which added the title above Articles 91 and 91a, the title above Articles 91b and Article 91b and the title above Articles 91v and 91v, was submitted by the MP Dr Darko Laketic. The government and the Health and Family Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the law. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 97 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the law. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Committee on Health and Family has submitted to Article 102 of the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I would like the representative of the motion to make a statement on the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53381	I agree.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53382	Thank you, Minister. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the fourth item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Rules of Procedure on Substances Used in Disallowed Production of Intoxicating Drugs and Psychotropic Substances You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the draft law: Verica Radeta, Dubravko Bojic, Natasa Sp. Jovanovic, Sreto Peric, Nikola Savic, Zoran Despotovic and Dr Darko Laketić. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Health and Family, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's Messenger, the Prophet of Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53383	This amendment was certainly to be accepted because it represents a more legal-technical order and gives a slightly broader explanation than the proposal itself, but since it is a matter of amending and supplementing this law, I will make a principled point. This is a very serious law and a very serious topic. The position of the SRS is that you should arrange this as a special proposal, as we had those two previous laws, to be comprehensive and to seriously discuss from member to member about this new proposal, because changing several members will not solve the problems that exist in the illicit production of intoxicating drugs and psychotropic substances. The problem is generally present in Serbia. We even talked about Deputy Prime Minister Rasim Ljajic and his involvement in the production and distribution of drugs and people associated with him, etc. We simply think this is a subject that must be given full attention to both the ministry and the National Assembly. You've tried these tiny little changes here, something like putting things in order, and I suppose it's clear to you that this problem isn't solved, too. We expect that your associates will make an effort and that you will propose a comprehensive proposal of this law and then we will discuss it in detail and detail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53384	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. He's got a word for it, Professor. It's a crayon.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53385	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, my amendment sets out the way in which the precursors are classified and is in line with the SRS' stance towards the EU. The bill promoter persistently uses words, aliens, and loans from other languages that are not in the spirit of our native language. This repeats the word "precursor" of the Latin word "precursorius", which is given a different meaning here and which is reduced to substances used in illicit intoxicating drugs. If the legislators go on language like this, it is no wonder that pests and criminals mix different things to produce social evil. It's a modern-day slide of medical alchemy. In addition to illegal production of illicit intoxicating agents and legislators must languagefully cloud the meaning of basic terms? Since you've already gone to changes and additions, why didn't you pick the right dates? The Chinese have one saying – whoever makes a mistake and does not correct it makes a double mistake. As can be seen from this bill, i.e. The draft law amending and supplementing the Substances Act is used in an inappropriate way – the substance, in this name, should have replaced this beautiful word – matter, matter or ingredient, which are certainly more appropriate and more beautiful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53386	Thank you, Professor Boyich. The People's MP, Natasha Sp, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53387	Mr. Minister, we are opposed to any regulation in this law being in line with EU regulations, and especially since this law is about, for the simple reason that the EU project, together with America, the KIM drug mafia, which the Cypriot terrorists tried to make their own security in certain countries in the world through the recognition of so-called. Independence is torn out of Serbia, which will not succeed, and none of it will succeed if you give up the European path. Should I remind you that, according to the assessment of experts from the world and our security services, 15 drug cartels operate, under the allegations, in Kosovo and Metohija, and are headed by all these drug cartels exactly by the officials of the Republic of Serbia. What was an Internet joke is actually true. When those Ship's villains declared that so-called. independence over 10 years ago, such a trick appeared on the Internet -- that the distributor recognised independence from his dealer, or Afghanistan, who was the first to confess so-called. independence of Kosovo. That's not an accident. It is precisely because 65% of the total heroin production has this transit node across the southern Serbian province. A mob bed, a drug cartel, a drug that is distributed to the US military base Bonstil, from where they continue to finance their activities and all in the service of destroying the system and territorial integrity and sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia. What is most regrettable, Mr. Minister, is that today in Serbia, we have on the political scene exactly those who walk, learn, noise, who support in a certain way, go there and talk that the situation in Serbia is catastrophic, go to the hands of those Shiptar terrorists and their friends from the United States and the European Union. That's why we think that all of our legislation should be designed to be applicable to us here. It is absolutely unrealistic, not only because of the marked anti-European attitude of the EU, the Serbian Radical Party. Ask yourself how many voters in Serbia, it's really on your locusts, when you're questioned by these polling public opinion, it always kind of tends to be over 50%, and believe it isn't, because there are those in that interview and so on. Eurosceptics, which are not explicitly against but which have a certain fear and suspicion. As time goes by, and as all those who will, the one I mentioned to you the other day, that German from Bundestaga, here he is now, coming to Pristina and bribing Thaci and Haradinaj for what they should do further. I hear he'll come to Belgrade. I forgot his name, and I wrote it down. That same one he said, as a member of the Bundestags in October last year, that it was a reality to admit so-called. Independent Kosovo. That is why we are against any guidance and anything, in any law, being brought into line with the European Union rules, because they openly support Serbian enemies and their project for the drug mafia is exactly Kosovo.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53388	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Here you go, colleague Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53389	My dear colleague, Natasa Jovanovic, said that she had forgotten his name, and just to remind many of them that I should forget the names as soon as possible, and I think of Tony Blair first because, unfortunately, he also advised some government officials. The law on substances used in the illicit production of intoxicating drugs and psychotropic substances is one very serious law, especially given the direction in which all societies are heading, and hence our society. Unlike these two previous two laws, Mr. Minister, where you've devoted serious attention to these laws, I have a feeling here that it was some kind of alienation. Your interventions that you have proposed in this law are not essential, it will not lead to the suppression of what is the biggest problem for the citizens of Serbia, especially for the younger population and younger generations, but will lead to a completely different direction. The amendment I proposed on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party, he and that he was accepted, would not lead to some epochal discoveries and resolution of some problems. But indeed, it is especially necessary to pass a new law in this area, propose it and bring it, but first as it corresponds to Serbia, as it corresponds to the citizens of Serbia. And finally, another question for you, Mr. Minister. A few days ago, you said there were no longer those long waits for some kind of surgery, like cataract surgery. I'm sure that's where it's headed. I have in front of me a report from a specialist doctor about a cataract surgery, where exactly two years ago an intervention was scheduled. No one contacted that patient. Is it going to be someone from the ministry or from another institution to pick up that list and start calling these people, or is there not or is there some other way? You don't have to answer me specifically, I'm wondering what your approach to that is? In particular, this patient, it's absolutely all the same to him whether he'll be invited to a state clinic or it'll be some private clinic. He's aware and talked to some patients who had this problem, so they had interventions, someone in one, someone at another clinic, but they're happy with each other after these interventions. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53390	Thank you. The amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Darko Laketic. The government and the Committee on Health and Family accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Nikola Savic submitted to Article 21 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, colleague Saviæ.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53391	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, amending and supplementing this substance law used in the production of intoxicating drugs and psychotropic substances is another law to be passed by order, or on a recommendation from the European Union, to comply with EU regulations. That's where the reasons are listed, the more the reasons why they're doing it. The Serbian Radical Party has repeatedly warned you that you do not have to pass laws just because the European Union requires it, because everything that comes from the European Union does not have to mean that it is both good and that it is applicable to our conditions. But if we had ignored it, if we had put it aside, and if the law were the best, the law was a dead letter on paper without a comprehensive state strategy to fight this evil, against this grave form of disease. I'm not going to blame this ministry, even on the contrary, on the contrary, I think your ministry is doing everything in its power and detour to reduce this disease of addiction, but one other ministry doesn't think it's doing its job, which is the Ministry of the Interior. Namely, this ministry needs much more responsibility, to arrest in the root, to recapture all these phenomena, to arrest drug offenders, etc. Because we know how it starts - at the beginning of the grass and at the end of the awesome.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53392	Thank you, fellow Saviæ. The 26th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed a search on all amendments, I conclude the examination of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We're moving on to voter day. According to Article 87(5), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I determine Wednesday, April 3, 2019 with the beginning of... (Alexander Martinovic: The minister of the word came forward. ) Would you like to come in? (Goldibor potter: Yes. Here you go, Minister. I'm sorry, I didn't see you sign up.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53393	Dear Members of the Parliament and citizens of Serbia, I would like to thank you, first and foremost, for this debate we had here for a few days. I think a lot could be heard and I think the citizens of Serbia could see that the people in the assembly are people who take care of them and who want to do things that will be better for them and for the system. Not those who do not participate in this debate are not those who wish them good and who fight for them. This was the right and ideal place to be heard and where everything that should be heard should be heard, because the citizens of Serbia chose you to pass on their observations, their problems, their ideas, their all that they thought could be improved. I think this time the Serbian citizens had the opportunity to see it all, to hear it all and hope to draw an adequate conclusion from it. We all have to work together on this, that when it comes to health care not to make any difference, because that's the only way to get results. If people see that we don't fight here and don't share in these things, then we won't have attacks on the medical staff, we'll have fewer unkind nurses and everything, because then no one will have to take sides with those who attack medical personnel or those who are unkind from medical staff. When they see our unity, they'll have to act too. Remember, that's the basis for being more satisfied. We will never be satisfied, there is nowhere, especially in Serbia, that someone is satisfied with all things, but to be more satisfied than we are today. Always keep that in mind and talk to people. It's the only way to get the results. Once again, thank you all and I hope these results will work.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-02-0.u53394	Thank you, Minister. According to Article 87(5), I hereby set the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on Wednesday, April 3, 2019, starting at 10.00 p.m. as the Day of Vote on the agendas of the Third Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019, except for item 5, which was previously decided by the National Assembly. Thank you, and I'll see you tomorrow at the vote.
