ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53597	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sitting is attended by 87 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 99 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation, in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word has been made by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53598	Thank you. First question I ask Minister Nedimovic. By bypassing western, southwest Serbia, a large number of villages, we have encountered major problems for those people that all ministers and this government say should remain in their hearths, and the state and the ministry alone have absolutely done nothing about them not leaving their centuries-old hearths. More specifically, if we look at the subcablar villages, Caganje, Rosce, Jančića, Vrenčana and other villages bordering the town of Čačka and Gornji Milanovac, it is visible and you can get information that, believe it or not, there is no water system in the 21st century, i.e. the locals of those villages that still have no water today, drinking water. I would like to remind you that it is as the smallest condition that we would have the right to tell them that they are processing their country and that they remain, one of the reasons that there is no water system, and otherwise the cubes and the power shortages, a slightly larger storm, are mostly left without electricity. There is a primary school in which students from these five villages have only 13 and these villages are being shut down because of the negligence of the country. Not to mention travel infrastructure. So the basic and first question is – does the Ministry have a project, will the water system work, if we know that this project has been done for the whole city in the 1980s, and since then nothing has been done on this same project? The second question for Mr. Nedimovic is next. He announced the opening of several factories in Aryl and other places he will deal with, which is a joint investment with Hungary and in which fruit concentrates are planned to be produced in the first phase, while in Hungary work will be done until later stages, and complete production will be done with us. What is the first phase and how long it will take, which is the later phase when we will export as a final product, because we know that Serbia, the budget and thus the more fortunate peasants are, because the ransom price will be higher. The third question for Mr. Nedimovic is that last year was the lowest price of fruit products, raspberries, blackberries, apples, but if we take the current parameters where it says that last year's ransom price was 100 dinars, I want Mr. Nedimovic to explain to us whether this year the price will be higher, because at a price like this, if one picker averages 50 kilos of raspberries, it is a total of 5,000 dinars, and when they pay the dinars, taxes, food, the producer stays 2,000 dinars, or he is only zero, there is no profit with that price. And we're talking about various investments, and we're talking about reaching various agreements and agreements to export these same raspberries. If today is not said in April, the price, when the raspberries are already connected, when the ministry will appear before its citizens, before its producers, in front of its peasants and say what is the ransom price for this year. I have a question for Prime Minister Ana Brnabic. In Stragari, by the way of Kragujevac, there is a mine of asbestos Stragari a.d. in which, according to some of our information given to us by residents of the place, they have and say they plan to build a republican asbestos dump. According to one of the chapters on EU accession, all asbestos must be removed from all buildings in Serbia. If this information turns out to be correct and there is a plan to build a dump, the residents of this place are therefore afraid of the possibility of being even more harmful to human health than asbestos to that dump. So we're asking the Prime Minister - is this information correct and are they planning to build this kind of dump? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53599	Thank you, colleague Damjanovic. Is anyone else answering for a word from the representative or president of the parliamentary groups? The word is Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53600	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my parliamentary question has been addressed to the Ministry of State and Local Self-Government, since it is the ministry responsible for keeping the register of political parties, but it is also responsible for overseeing the implementation of the Law on Political Parties. The question is whether members 8, 19, 22, 23, 24 and 25 have been violated. The law on political parties, relating to the establishment of a political party and to the Register of Political Parties? Why am I asking this? Because on April 19th, Belgrade reportedly has a new party headed by Dragan Gilas with a group of already spent politicians who are well-known and very often flew from party to party. Some media have announced that it is the formation of a new party, but it is true that Gilas has actually taken over the already existing Green Ecological Party – Zelena, whose president was dejan Bulatovic, who will now be the vice president of Dragan Djilas in the reportedly newly formed party. However, it concerns the data, and we see it by writing the press, and we also saw that Dragan Gilas has not denied it to date, that it is also about buying a party. I would remind the public that a similar situation happened with Vuk Jeremic, when he took over the already existing political party of his errand boy from Trstenik Miroslav Aleksic. And then, like now, there was a suspicion that it was a clean trade, because why would they bother? Why would they collect signatures, why would they verify signatures, why would they create party infrastructure when they could come in nice, buy a party, have money. We know, we're all aware of Gilas' hundreds of millions, we're all aware of the millions whose origins, in fact, haven't even justified it so far. The only thing you don't know here and what's asking is, what number is this party bought for? It also defeats the fact that Dragan Gilas has decided to call the party Freedom and Justice Party. Imagine that amount of hypocrisy. A man comes, buys a party, calls it the Freedom and Justice Party, and brings himself first as a great fighter for freedom and justice. He who left a billion euros in debt while he was mayor of Belgrade, who was the actor of so many dozen affairs that I am not going to talk about right now, but the citizens of Belgrade remember that very well. He whose name is synonym for someone who has become enormously rich using his functions, now he wants to present himself as a great freedom fighter. He who built his business empire, practically on the freedom of the media, now wants to introduce himself to a great advocate of freedom. But let's see who else makes this party? We first have Borko Stefanovic, the fake leftist and former Tadic's favorite, who is known to people for what? By negotiating with Pristina. And what were the results of these negotiations? The result was the removal of Serbian tables, resulting in the handover of cadastrian books to Pristina, without resolving property issues of tens of thousands of Serbs, not to mention that he was the negotiator of the government that led us to the position that the dialogue takes place without UN intervention. Then we have a Marinika Tepic who if we asked her now, she probably wouldn't even know how many parties she was at. But we also have a new star, Mark Bastac, who is known to the general public for his savagery in downtown Belgrade, for pulling out traffic signs and for similar vandalisms. In the end, Branislav Jovanovic, whom Nišlje is known as Banet "Banana", who has changed eight or even more political parties, who has had an affair after an affair, who has been arrested for crimes that are being put on his burden during his time as director of the City Construction Directorate. So these are ladies and gentlemen the MPs of the people who want to represent themselves as a new political force. The truth is, it's just an attempt to get these same people back in power and that the same people are rich in the torment of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53601	Thank you, colleague Žarić – Kovacevic. The word has been made by the People's MP Novice Tonchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53602	Dear colleagues, I recently pointed out here a serious problem in the functioning of the justice system in the Pcinjska region and I have asked several concrete parliamentary questions concerning the work of the Senior Public Prosecutor in Vranje Daniela Trajkovic. We all know that under the Constitution of Serbia and all the laws governing the work of judicial institutions prosecutors and judges in their work must have nothing to do with politics and political parties. However, in the case of prosecutor Daniela Trajkovic, the rule does not apply, because before 2000, she began her career as JUL by keeping records up to date at the JUL Municipal Committee meeting in Surdulica, but she founded the permanent working relationship in the prosecutor's office in Surdulica as a radical, to find refuge in Vladan Batic's party after 5 October, and then she was close to the DS to change the political option today due to the election of a senior prosecutor's post. Long ago, in 1996, Daniela Trajkovic broke the law for five years, by illegally moving as a prosecutor of the prosecution to the apartment of the Solidarity Fund in Surdulica. She did not pay rent and the PIO Vranje Fund submitted an emergency eviction request that was then implemented. Afterwards, she illegally moved into a military apartment and was kicked out of there, and the court dispute that led her was lost. In 2010, Mrs. Trajkovic solved the housing issue by buying an apartment in Belgrade, which she did not want to register on her own behalf, but was formally listed as a buyer and owner in the purchase contract by her father-in-law. I know this for sure because she bought the apartment from my company, and the buy-in procedure was filed on her request until she figured out who the formal apartment was going to sign up for. I can only assume that she wanted to cover up the origin of the money, because the rent of the deputy attorney general certainly couldn't buy it. About how a facade was done at her family's house in Surdulica, which workers worked and whether she paid best to explain it herself to the public. During the period 2009-2013 she worked as a member of the Church Committee, the church municipality of Surdulics and from that position actively participated in the adoption of financial plans and final accounts of the church municipality of Surdulics, including the monitoring and verification of funds received from donors, and donors were pauses in cases she represented as a public prosecutor. In February 2011, Daniela Trajkovic registered and established as a member of the Supervisory Board of the Association of Citizens called the "Safe House" in Surdulica, which she founded along with friends. On 14 September 2011, in the case of the KT 25/11 of the Vranj Police Office, she made a solution that ordered one of the suspects to pay 100,000 dinars on the account of the Safe House on the basis of the opportunity. The suspect acted on the prosecutor's order, paid the money, brought a payment to the prosecutor's office, so Mrs. Trajkovic came up with a solution that rejected the criminal charges by the MUP Vranje. These are just some indicators from the biography of Daniele Trajkovic, who, as the primary public prosecutor in Vladica Han, unfoundedly persecuted people on a political basis. Because of all this, I've asked certain parliamentary questions, but I haven't received complete answers from the State's Attorney General. I received some statistics showing that in 2016 Daniela Trajkovic accused 55 people of being released 18. Then, in 2017, 41 persons, released 11 and not to mention and not to bother this home. So, this is extremely poor labour statistics, Daniela Trajkovic, as prosecutor. And I can tell you with full right because I voted here as an MP to have her elected senior public prosecutor in Vranj. Although I told Minister Selakovic at the time that I would vote with a large reserve, here it turns out I was right. I also asked the question of how much money from Serbia's budget was paid to people who were released from charges filed by Daniela Trajkovic and I received from the State's Chief Prosecutor an answer that the costs are paid in accordance with Article 265. The law on criminal proceedings. I can read the law and I know that this thing has been regulated by law, but my parliamentary question, how precise and clear it was, and I will repeat it once again, how much Serbia's budget cost all the liberating verdicts and baseless indictments have been brought by law during the Trajkovic's mandate in Han and Vranja individually for each case is a total annual one.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53603	Thank you, Comrade Tonchev. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53604	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm sure you've heard of the second request of the opposition that's actually the first to give them their parties half of REM is the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media. I will refer here to the law, and questions are related to the Ministry of Information and Culture, I will apply to the Law on Electronic Media, to the Law on Advertising and to the Law, or to the Agreement, Convention No 132 in the Council of Europe, which we have signed on the broadcasting, re-emissioning of foreign cross-border channels. With that in mind, I ask the Ministry of Culture of Information, and thus REM, when the cable operator of the SBB, who is under the control of the School, David Petreus, former head of the CIA and commander of military forces in Afghanistan, will, when the SBB, the electronic media regulator, etc. REM, order to exclude N1, 10 sports channels and other so-called ‘N1’ from the program. cross-border channels, behind whose ownership and co-ownership SBB stands. Namely, what's this about? According to the Convention we signed, according to the Law on Electronic Media, according to the Law on Advertising, cross-border channels that are not registered in REM, and my one question is whether the N1 television is registered in our country at REM, because it broadcasts a programme from studies in Belgrade, which is not allowed for cross-border channels and re-emission. So, is this channel legal, because it would have to be domestic and it would have to be registered in REM and paid for it? Next my question is it true that these cross-border channels are re-emissioning domestic advertising, resulting in violations of the international convention, violations of the Law on Electronic Media and violations of the Law on Advertising? Is it true that foreign re-emission programmes, which have to re-emission in the original form, include domestic advertising, and do not pay taxes on these domestic ads, and thus compete on black with domestic media registered in REM and which pay compensation for it, unlike foreign channels? Foreign channels, while re-emissioning from Belgrade's studio, which stands for Solak, Gilas and Petreus, insert domestic ads and only a club sport for 10,000 seconds per night, a tax per euro per second alone, amounts to a tax evasion of 10,000 euros per night, which comes close to four million euros in 365 days. So what and the IRS will do to determine this tax offense. According to our laws, when an operator releases such channels, the electronic media regulator is obliged to warn the cable operator, to shut such channels off cross-border and if it does not, then REM is obliged to impose a ban on cable operator, and in this case it is an SBB. So, question one more - when will REM, because of its violation of the Law on Electronic Media, because of the violation of the Law on Advertising and because of the violations of the International Re-emission Convention, when will REM require the cable operator to turn off N1 television, sports club 10 channels and other cross-border channels, which re-emission foreign programmes along with the introduction, termination and introduction of domestic advertising? If the SBB cable operator does not do so, when will REM require that the operator be excluded, i.e. to impose a ban on him? With that in mind, I would like to say that these foreign cross-border channels from the subscription that collects SBB, to 54% of the Republic of Serbia's market, pay cross-border channels for broadcasting, while domestic channels whose programme uses 80% of the cases, offensive 80%, pay nothing. It's about exploiting domestic programs, domestic television, with competition from foreign channels that pay nothing to access SBB, even on the contrary, the SBB takes from one, and these other salaries. So the issues are clear and I expect the Ministry of Culture and Information and the regulatory body for electronic media to answer precisely what it will do about this outrageous exploitation, which is at an annual level of 150m euros.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53605	Thank you, colleague Rističević. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that he has been prevented from attending the sittings today by MP Djordje Milicevic. We continue our work and move on to the search in detail on the first item of the agenda – Proposal for a law on the conversion of residential loans indexed in Swiss francs. I'll give a five-minute break until the minister and his associates enter. Thank you for your understanding and your patience. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. I welcome Minister Sinish Malloy and his associates. You have received amendments submitted under the bill by the MPs: the Belief of Radet, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic, Marijan Rističević, Milan Lapčević, Ruzica Nikolic, Sreto Perić, Gordana Komić, Milorad Mirčić, Aleksandra Belačić, Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanović, Zdravko Stankovic, Miljan Damjanović, Nemanja Sarović, Djordje Vukadinović, Zoran Despotović, Petar Jojić, Nikola Savic, doc. Dr. Ivan Bauer, as well as the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search of the Prolonged Law in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Here you are, colleague Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53607	Thank you. We talked about this bill, the so-called bill in principle. Swiss, that the public knows what we're talking about, and we've put you through some fundamental remarks, and you might have wanted to solve the problem of these people who are really in trouble, but this bill didn't do it. We are a serious political party, a state-of-the-art party, and we are not going to use those demagogue flossules so that you spend people's money on how you can think of it, but we remind you that in the last election, citizens voted in the largest number for the political parties that have enthroned you. This obliges you to have the attention of a good host in your budget, which is mostly filled with contributions and taxes, and that is a fact. Every dollar in the budget must, in advance, be known what it is intended for and what it will be spent on. Every penny, every one behind the bar, you obviously don't do it that way. We can't trust you for the simple reason that for years, for decades, we haven't received a final bill for over a decade, where we'd see if the budget really was spent the way it was adopted in the National Assembly. The question is, how are you and what funds you intend to pay for these expenses you've made in the budget, which you'll make this "lex specialise", by a law that repeats itself does not solve the fundamental problem that was the reason for the adoption of such a law. This problem, Minister Mali, had to be resolved systematically. It can't be solved and you're getting more and more, I don't mean personally, but the government is increasingly reaching out to some solutions from case to case, something happens in life, someone sits there, makes a bill, it's being discussed here, so we have all kinds of laws that have some kind of personal names, and then we have this "lex specialis," but it's just talking about a non-serious approach to solving essential and essential problems. Instead of the governor of the National Bank sitting down and talking to the bankers and giving them a good idea, that their obligation is to solve this problem, which does not like it, please, can leave the country of Serbia. Those bankers didn't even come here because they wanted to help us. Here are the sprawl banks, destroyed and today there are certain funds that have been made available to these non-existent banks, banks in bankruptcy, or I don't know what stage they are at, that at that time Dinkic, I remind you, would have brought various foreign banks, so you remember when he founded the National Savings Bank, so he called one of the banks, and then, at that time, the bar, Djindjic then spoke, was in error, I guess Dinkic led him astray, so he went, as if he had made the first dinar into that National Savings, because God helped national finances in this way. So, it's all wrong at the beginning, but why, we remind you that this was supposed to be finished by the governor of the National Bank? Well, because it really ended in serious countries by governors and the state had no obligation. We don't think that you from the ministry shouldn't have been involved in this, but the problem is that Jorgenka Tabakovic has her back by not wanting to spoil her relationship with the bankers, so when the governor goes to some world or European bank, then they're some of her relationships. We said the same thing, not so long ago, about Minister Vujovic, so the MPs from the government were yelling -- wow, you're the smartest, you know, you know, you, what happened, you went to Vujovic, and now he's one of the most serious critics of this government, and you ministers, who inherited him, and now he's telling us with restraint that everything the government promises is possible for me not to know how many decades. The current governor of the National Bank, we remember well all, recently declared that the dinar, our dinar, is the strongest currency on the globe and slightly wider. If that's why loans that are indexed in foreign currency are allowed in the first place, this applies to both the euro and we think this should have been dealt with systematically. Credits in Serbia are to be given exclusively in dinars, in fact, dinars are given, none of these people have received euro, or Swiss francs, nor have the banks that approved these loans had coverage in Swiss francs. So it's a pathetic speculative, fictitious job that only bankers have benefited from. We understand that the bank can't function if there's no profit and it should have it, but it can't have extra profits and still don't pay taxes for it. You made it possible for them this way. We talked about some cases, but we have a picturesque example. Here's a man who's employed in the National Assembly, whose executioner, while this law, I think, was in the procedure, the perpetrators took his apartment. He personally, in his personal name, owed himself this Swiss loan, did not allow his wife to appear with the right of an obstacle to purchase. They broke into their apartment, wouldn't let them take the drugs or the values they had in the house. Now, I publicly advise them to press charges against this perpetrator and tell the D.A. that all their valuables have disappeared from their apartment, so let's see how the perpetrator will make it up to them, how the prosecution and the courts will react. Here, in just one case, a series of criminal acts have been committed, and it's nothing to anyone and what's going to happen now, let's say, with that man, and with hundreds of those people who have lost their apartment. These people, this family paid 87,000 euros, people. Payed off, and nothing, ate a cat. So you don't solve the problem of people who are already badly damaged, drastically damaged. You have no option, you gave up the opportunity to force the bank to make annexes of these contracts, that these people be compensated, if they can't be returned to their apartments, this one even I'm talking about can be returned because that apartment is a crime scene because the buyer is the son of an executioner from Kragujevac, and the apartment was sold here by an executioner from Belgrade, so that, people, there's no cartoon. I don't know if you're aware, if you live in Serbia essentially, if you're communicating with the people, if you know what's really going on here. You of this law, which we are absolutely against but are not against solving the problem of these people, so we insist that this problem be resolved systematically, we insist that all people, all citizens of Serbia who have taken loans in foreign currency and to resolve the issue and businesses. No one here is talking about the economy that took loans in Switzerland, where these people were, how many businesses or means of work had to be sold to get back these loans? So, you just did this so you could say on TV -- here, some people were strikein', the president came in and told us to settle this, we solved it overnight, these people won't strike anymore. Unfortunately, they'll strike when they realize you haven't actually helped them. You, Mr. Minister, have once not rightly tried to resolve already there will be no law, and that's right, ask the associates of the lawyers around you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53608	Thank you, colleague Radeta. The word has a finance minister, Dr. Sinisha Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53609	Dear MPs, ladies and gentlemen, I have carefully followed the previous presentation and will look back with several comments on the same. So, with the attention of a good host, we take care of each dinar. This is the first and most important message that I have to tell you, if not, we wouldn't have had a surplus in the budget for the third year in a row, we are carefully taking care of every dinar, we are working hard to repay the debts that the previous government left us, I will remind you, you and the citizens and Serbia that in 2013, we had a country that was before bankruptcy, so the country that was on the edge of the ambition, but we managed to reverse the ferry of our public debt, instead of over 70% of the public debt compared to GDP, is now 5.8% below the level of mastery that is defined for EU countries. We managed to reduce our unemployment, and I say on fiscal policy for the third year in a row we have a surplus, only for the first three months, so for the first quarter of this year 15.8 billion surpluses in the budget compared to the planned deficit of over 19 billion. So, the result that's better for over 5 billion dinars than we planned, and that gives us the right and to be optimistic about this year, which is what people would say – if we know each other in the morning, we are expected to increase wages and pensions this year, we are expected to have a better standard of living for Serbian citizens this year, and on the other hand we show that we take care of every dinar. This law is the first, perhaps most important, and the problem that is related to the citizens in charge of the Swiss francs has arisen 12, 13, 14 years ago. I can't, and I don't want to go in and into how irresponsible it was, whose responsibility it was, ours was to try and solve this problem and can't be solved by anyone but the state. So, we've made a compromise solution, we've sat down with the savings association and with the credit-users' association and with the banking sector, we've made a compromise solution, no one's made that compromise solution so far, that it's been easy for someone else to do it, and it gives the possibility, and that's what I end up with. So to citizens who want to solve this problem, they solve through this law. Those who feel that the law is not good enough for them have the opportunity to continue the litigation and prove in court that they are right against the banks they have filed and brought proceedings against. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53610	Before I give my word to my colleague Verice Radeti and before we continue to work, allow me to welcome the students of the tenth generation of students of the education program Politikas, who are currently monitoring part of today's session from the Great Hall Gallery and please welcome our guests with applause. Right on the replica of the Witch of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53611	Minister, this was a theoretical review, and now it's a little practical. You say you're doing your job with the attention of a good host. You will convince us of this when we have a final budget account in front of us and on this basis, on the basis of the planned budget, the adopted budget and the final account, we can determine whether this is really business with the attention of a good host. Maybe we'd commend you if we had a final bill, but we don't. You say we have a third year, or what, surplus. What would we believe in your word? Where's the evidence? Where's the final bill, and that's where you see it, Minister, we're not layers in politics, science, or profession? I'm a lawyer, but when I was preparing for this law, I talked to my fellow economists, with colleagues who understand finance, read, study, study, we're not passing here, we come here to talk seriously. So it's not good for you, nor is it an argument for you. You say, Minister, this was at the time of the previous government, they're in charge, they've made these loans possible. It's all true, but, you know, when it comes to elections, then it's said to the citizens – give us power, and we'll solve it as soon as possible, try to solve or move towards solving your essential problems. You can't talk for seven years - this is what the former government did. You know, in the modern world, 100 days is given to every government to see what direction that government operates after 100 days. So, Minister, please don't tell us any stories, if you have an argument, say it, you haven't had one so far, you haven't made an argument. We're still suggesting, you're not too late, you pull this bill, you hire your associates, you include the governor of the National Bank, you include the bankers, we don't mind, and you bring us here, give us a bill that will comprehensively resolve that no one is strikein' for this anymore, that no one is using' or misusing someone's accident in the media, etc. Once we finish one segment, let's say -- this is over, we delay, we solve the following problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53612	Thank you, colleague Radeta. The word is made by Minister Sinisha Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53613	Very briefly, about the final bill. You have a final account for 2017 on the website of the State Auditing Institution, take a look at the results, and for 2018 it is working. So they're working on it, and it'll also be on their website. So, if you can read it easily, you will see the result we achieved in 2017. The second question is the essential question, you said -- I think we've solved the essential issues in the previous period. So this issue of credit in Swiss francs was the problem that we inherited, and the fundamental question was that the country was turned, that you no longer have bankruptcy and bankruptcy, the country that was ahead of bankruptcy, which we had, to reduce the unemployment rate, to have high rates of growth, to reduce the cost of public debt growth. These are essential things and these essential things mean a higher and better standard of living for the citizens of Serbia and give you the basis for the stable development of our country in the future. Finally, your comment on the scope of this law. The law covered all those who use loans in Swiss francs and who still have those loans. This is the best solution we've ever made as a compromise of talks with both associations and banks. I wish I had heard and seen that another more comprehensive or better solution was presented, if he's willing to hear it himself, if he doesn't, this is what we have and what he is is the final solution for the citizens who are in charge of the Swiss francs.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53614	Thank you, Minister. Right on the replica of the Witch of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53615	I'm not going to replicate the Minister for what he said, I'm just going to have to ask him to repent for the first sentence he said. Minister Sinisha Mali, you tell the MPs you have a final account for 2017 on the website. Have you heard of the obligation to discuss this final account here, to adopt here, that the National Assembly is bringing the final bill, you're just proposing it? Listen, he says to the MPs "if you can read." Is it normal what you say, Mr. Sinisha Mali? (Sinisha Mali: You said it didn't exist.) There isn't. As long as he's not adopted by the National Assembly, he doesn't exist, Minister. I'm telling you nicely, don't, you're going to be spinning that statement in the form of a clip on the Internet. I don't know what you want me to say. That's terrible. It's terrible for the minister to tell the MPs -- you have a final bill for a year on the site. Minister Sinisha Mali, read the laws you're working on. Read the Budgetary System Act. Read the Ministry's obligations. Read the obligations of the National Assembly. The final budget account is adopted at the government's proposal at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It was the last time it happened in 2003. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53616	Thank you. Now I'd like to give my word to Professor Dr. Miladin Shevarlic. Professor, if you knew you had five minutes, how would you like to use it? Here you go. (Miladin Ševarlic: Rules of Procedure. Yeah, you're on the phone with the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53617	Thank you. I'd just like to ask the finance minister when he's making statements about his success in terms of a more versatile analysis.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53618	Just name a member of the professor, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53619	Member of the 107th Dignity of the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53620	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53621	So I have before me yesterday's material of the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia, the Economic Institute, etc., the minister is known as the bulletin "Macroeconomic Analysis and Trends". The country's economic position in many countries has also been determined by the external trade balance, and here we have information that Serbia has recorded a minus 926m euros for the first two months of 2019, with an increase in the level of debt, with a decrease in exports and an increase in imports. These are all three negative characteristics. At the same time, when the minister is talking about the surplus, I would like to point out to you the following fact, that we have considered the final report for the fourth quarter of the Ministry of Agriculture, forestry and water economy on the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, and have then found that over 800 million dinars have not been spent for 2018. This is one of the reasons why the supposed budget surplus appears at the end of 2018, and there are no outstanding commitments from the agriculture sector, even for 2017, that I do not speak for 2018, which is also what the parliamentary questions I have provided to you, among other things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53622	Thank you, Professor. I don't think I've hurt Article 107. Rules of Procedure, I have not offended the dignity of the National Assembly. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (Miladin Chevarlic: No. No, thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53623	I'd like to do the amendment. The problem, or the reasons for the adoption of this law, is related to one of the wishes of the banking sector to generate a certain extra profit. Namely, the dinar as a means of payment in the Republic of Serbia is counted against other currencies, first in the euro, and then the exchange rate of the dinar that is according to the euro is equal to other currencies, such as the dollar, such as the English pound, such as, among other things, the Swiss franc. Why are we passing this law? Because the lack of care of the regime at the time, the former regime that walks the streets, commits violence, attacks on women, rather than reacting in the right way before, even when the problem arose, they kept quiet about it. And that, in fact, it is evident that it was not only a foreign exchange clause that was in question, should the citizen also accept the foreign exchange risk between the euro and the Swiss franc, but also what kind of exchange deals were done by the bank when the contracts were concluded? Completely fictitious. It was paid in dinars, it was returned to dinars, but it was paid to the citizens on a lower course and returned on a higher course. In this way, there is a real extra profit, plus the exchange rate due to losses that the citizens had between the euro and the Swiss franc. That's one reason, and that silence of the state, which in the first place should take care of its citizens, of course, both the financial sector and the banks, I can only see by motive that they had certain business with banks. I would also like to ask the amendment promoter, how do we get the Duke of Meridian to return at least 10m euros to the citizens he received from the Meridian Bank while silent as the holder of the government and while these in the banking sector have become rich in various speculant actions. That's the problem of the country. It's the state that needs to handle it. The absence of state and reaction in the right way is that these citizens were left to themselves. I'd most like it if it were possible to pass a law that was retroactively applicable. The National Assembly can do that, and I agree, 126 MPs, and no problem, we'll pass the law, but, I ask, what after? Will the financial sector be suing us for the losses he has before international courts? It will. You think he'll forgive us for the money? He won't. Is it their great prospect of obtaining the Republic of Serbia in some dispute? Yes, it is. With one of these laws, we are actually trying to produce a result that will alleviate the consequences of the Swiss franc's jump, on the one hand, and on the other hand to keep the stable financial sector, which needs the republic and these same citizens and that same economy that we are constantly calling on, including the Republic of Serbia. It is necessary, there is no development without the banking or financial sector. Here, I'd like you to tell me the state that went after the hand, just to hear it as an example. I don't know, really. Maybe I'm wrong, maybe I'm wrong. It's the easiest thing to say - fire on the banks. It's not that simple. As a result of the agreement between the citizens' association affected by the exchange rate differences between the Swiss franc and the euro and the banks that placed such loans in order to earn as much as possible, we have one law and thus avoid, at least when it comes to banks, international arbitration and disputes. Whether all 100m euros will be spent on easing these consequences, we still don't know that, we'll find out when the law goes into effect in about two and a half months, because I believe that a large number of citizens will continue some of the disputes they have started before the courts. That's about 10 percent for now. And most importantly, this law does not prevent citizens from achieving judicial protection. Also, this law does not prevent banks from seeking judicial protection, only in front of some other courts. But we have an excuse, even if they do, that it was the result of an agreement between the banks, the National Bank of the Republic of Serbia, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and that agreement was given to us by the MPs. I would most like it if we could pass a law that would give the Duke of Meridian the bank of Bozidar Djelic and all his comrades back to the citizens everything that was taken from them. But when I look at the 2011 Foreign Exchange Act, they also passed laws so they wouldn't answer criminally, materially, so it's very difficult to correct all injustices with one of these laws. In any case, for many, this law will be a relief, for some kind of victory, and this law should therefore be passed in the National Assembly. This law is the result of one responsible behaviour and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the President of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, because it removes the great risk that threatened the state, the Republic of Serbia, if this problem is not resolved, but also provides some legal certainty for all future investors and the financial sector in the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53624	Thank you, colleague Arsic. The word is News Tonchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53625	Dear colleagues, respected finance ministers, here I am, reporting for the amendment, and I want to take this opportunity to ask the finance minister if we, since the people chose our MPs, and we MPs choose the Serbian government, do we have to make every law like a Lex specialis, or can we systematically solve it? This is about people who are in charge of the Swiss, or banks that gave credit and us as the Socialist Party, as an MP, I also advocate that this problem be resolved. But since I come from a local self-government which is a poor municipality, you said that the Serbian government has money, surpluses and that it stands out 11.6 billion dinars. I mean, Minister, that's about 20 undeveloped municipalities, the total annual budgets we give. This is also about the law we're making, about raising the salaries of children's kindergarten employees. You know that salaries in children's kindergartens are paid by local self-government, so I want to ask – will this salary increase be followed by an increase in the transfer from the Republic in favour of the level of municipalities, since the amount of this transfer has not changed since 2014? Since this is an extraordinary increase, will the Ministry of Finance also approve an increase in the mass of funds for salaries in local self-government? I've got a table here. In my municipality, for example, with a higher school, a municipal administration worker receives 38 thousand dinars, and with this increase, workers in kindergarten will receive 57,000 dinars. Since the same register pays off, what do you think, ministers, that we do this, that the same workers who work with a higher school in the municipal administration pay 38 thousand dinars, and the children's kindergarten workers with a higher school of 56 thousand dinars? From the same register, or municipal budget, all of this is paid off. Also, the official travel logs in public enterprises and employees of pre-school institutions are paid at 5% of the average monthly earnings per employee in the Republic, which according to current parameters is 3,700 dinars, and employees, elected and appointed persons in the municipality of the official travel daily are 150 dinars. Everything is also paid out of the same municipal register. The Law on how to determine the maximum number of public sector employees was also adopted in 2015. Acting under this law, a large number of local self-governments had to reduce the number of employees who had all sued the same local self-government. The court brought them all back to work, which resulted in millions of dollars in damages. Did the courts become union organisations for employees? I wanted to report for the amendment and tell the Minister – let the Government and the MPs systematically resolve these laws, because the next one who will... Do we have to wait for people to strike or express their protests in any way, and then we here to solve these problems or wait for our President of the Republic to visit and give us orders to do so? Let's take the initiative here. Here, I'm telling you that the next to strike and protest will be workers who are employed in local self-government. My driver drove me to Belgrade this morning. What can he do with 150 dinars today? He can't buy a muffin in Belgrade. Let's go, Minister, to solve systematic problems for what people voted for. I want to tell you in the end about the employment ban. The employment ban has devastated undeveloped municipalities. We can't hire a good engineer for 40,000, well an IT operator or anyone, Mr. Minister. The lowest salaries are in Serbia, so far, for workers working in municipal administrations. So I ask you to prepare for next time a law that will solve this case too. It is also clear that professional staff, too, do not want to go to local self-government, and the existing staff is leaving local self-government due to low earnings and high numbers of jobs. The high expectations were of a new Collective Treaty, Mr. Minister, but unfortunately all employees in local self-government did not accept the proposal for a collective contract, so that employees in local self-government will continue to work without the right to a warm meal, a regress for the use of annual holidays, unlike their colleagues who work in public enterprises. I'll give you an example, too. The president of the municipality, who is a doctor, receives 75,000 dinars in Surdulica. The local manager of the hydropower plant receives 200,000 dinars. Who has more responsibility and who works more? Come on, Minister, let's essentially solve these problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53626	Thank you, Comrade Tonchev. The word is made by Minister Sinisha Mali. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53627	Dear MPs, there are three questions or comments that we have heard, therefore, on the subject of Lex specialis. The law as a lex specialis, you know, this is a special substance, relatively narrow matter. So there's not one law, except for the lex specialis, which will tang, if I can put it that way, that applies only to this relatively narrow thing. That's why we have to get the Lex special, because there's no... This isn't a big, wide topic where some special law would be defined, except this way. So it's not a standard thing, it's not a normal thing, so we're going with a Lex special to solve this clearly defined problem of citizens, of individual citizens of Serbia. On the other hand, you mentioned inequality in wages. It is very important to note that this year we are awaiting the adoption of a special law that will be and relating to wage reform in the public sector. I believe that these inequalitys will, in such a way, slip out and balance over the next two or three years just under that law. If we are able and determined to adopt it and apply it as of 1 January, you will already see the harmonisation and movement of wages in all public administration employees, eventually, and in public enterprises very quickly. What is particularly important to me is your comment on the structure of your budget. So every local self-government defines its priorities. The height of the transfer depends, as you know, on how many employees you have in your local self-government. You know how much we've done for your local self-government in terms of infrastructure, roads and everything else. So what every local self-government needs to do, it's to increase the number of employees, find a way to attract more investors, and therefore you have bigger salaries, or more employees, more contributions to the municipality, and that's the healthiest and only possible way to develop a local self-government. As far as educators are concerned, I'll see what you're dealing with in your local self-government, but let me tell you, if it's not one of the priorities in your local self-government that those who deal with children have higher salaries, and according to the law and decision of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I'll be free to say that somewhere is the problem. There are probably more important things than that. I don't see what's more important than that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53628	Thank you, Minister. The word is News Tonchev, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53629	Thank you, Minister, for your exhaustive answer. I will especially welcome the law that we will bring on public sector wages and that is where I agree with you. As for the priorities and budgets of local self-government, it's true, I've been running a local self-government for 10 years. I'll only tell you one example. It says a reduction in the number of employees in local self-government. Here's a classic example. We in local self-government certainly can't fire some engineer or some man who works on matters of important interest for the municipality and the state, but we say: reduce three cleaning girls, and then put them in the budget, and I'm not the only one doing that, some municipalities put for the gerento-home girls 20-30 million, and then put into the budget cleaning municipalities 15 million. He's getting some agency for it. She hires a cleaning lady, pays 30 grand with 50. The agency takes 20%, and that's already 60 grand one worker and VAT 1.20%. So, one cleaning lady in the municipality costs us 75 grand instead of paying her 25 and 30. Who brought such a newspaper? That's what happens with security and everybody. Some municipalities in Serbia, I don't know if you've seen, received 200 gerento-homewives who do nothing. That's why it's happening to us. It was only a higher cost to reduce the number of employees. I was the President of the Republic, when he visited our municipality, he said. In 2009, in 2010, the total net salary for all the municipality employees was 10 million, and now, ministers 17 million, although we reduced salaries, although we reduced the number of employees, introduced discipline. We're 17 now because we pay for jobs that we don't need through various agencies. (President: Thank you. We need to deal with this systematically. (President: Thank you, colleague Tonchev. Just a second. (Chairman: You're out of time. Just a second to finish, it's time to finish. As regards the transfer, since 2014, transfers have not been increased to any municipality, and how many commitments have been imposed on local self-government since then and how many pay increases have been made in the public sector? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53630	Thank you. The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53631	Just for a little while, honourable MPs. I didn't quite understand the right way how your number of employees fell, your salary was reduced, then you increased the mass of separation, if you have people doing pp jobs. Why are you doing this? So you have no employment ban, you have employment control. So you have no employment ban, you have employment control. So if you have a desire for additional employment, I tell you, every day I talk to the presidents of municipalities and local self-government, you give consent, people get hired, you just have to have an excuse for that, that it's not without a plan. But I would ask you to consider that policy of yours. You're welcome to come and talk to me about it. So there's no employment ban. There's a job control. That's one thing. The other thing is about transfers and transfer altitude. The amount of transfer increases depending on how performances of your local self-government are. That's what you have to work on, and you know for yourself that your local self-government got support at the end of last year, if I'm not mistaken, 20 million dinars. That's not small. On the basis of the consolidation of our finances, local self-government is also obtained directly or indirectly through investment in infrastructure, through support, through the Public Investment Office, etc. So, the responsibility of anyone who runs his local self-government is how the budget he has to increase and then how to spend it. I'm not going to get involved in this, but it's up to you to define your priorities in the right way and organise the work of the municipality as appropriate to you, in accordance with existing laws, but I say, with control, not a ban on employment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53632	Thank you, Minister Mali. I just want to point out that we've come a long way from this amendment. This topic of employment and the Law on Employment really has nothing to do with the subject, so I ask you to go back to the amendment of your colleague, Verica Radete. The word has Vladimir Orlic. Dr. Orlic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53633	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. With regard to the comments made by the amendment promoter, but also with regard to other words presented during today's discussion, as they are important. From what I understand, it's all about the subject in a narrow or somewhat broader sense because it concerns the issues of the economy and the economy of our country. First of all, there was a comment by the amendment’s promoter that there was no such thing as no respect for those reports that were not familiar with the National Assembly. So the minister mentioned the DRI report. On 18 December 2018, the same institution met the National Assembly and each MP individually with the contents of the report the minister spoke of. So right now I'm looking, there's a seductive number for that date. A review report on the final budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2017 was submitted to each MP. I understand that sometimes it is to sort out reports from the DRI that arrive to the MPs that are a busy job. It's about extensive materials that we're really getting a lot on a weekly basis, but if that's why some report has been promoted, we should check before we claim that we're not familiar with whether it exists or not. As to whether there is something or not, depending on whether the congregation is familiar with it. There are different reports, there are different allegations, as you well know, but the usual thing for some reports to be used when they are considered useful to themselves. Let's say, the famous Fiscal Council, which I see as much as I do today is something that avoids coming by the big hall before they have breakfast, and these press conferences I'm hearing right now, that fiscal council they often mention. Among other things, MP Ševrlic said, or someone else was today, as we know we have a surplus in the budget. Among other things, the Fiscal Council, which is highly called upon by members of the former regime, e.g. whenever something critical is directed towards the government of Serbia or Alexander Vukic, or SNS, without distinction, whenever they respond to that advice. The same advice found in his report that there is a surplus in the budget at the end of the previous year, and that is worth knowing. There is another report that makes up other organs that show what the situation in our economy is like. I will mention some of them, but regarding what was mentioned above by Ambassador Ševarlic. I wanted to, Mr. Chairman, intervene first in my Rules of Procedure. It was an indication of an injury, and it was actually a pure replica, but I couldn't find a suitable technical model. The MP is currently not a member of any parliamentary group, is he? Among other things, if someone in the National Assembly didn't know that, even the MP group he belonged to, the Devere Group, no longer exists. As of this morning, I'd be doing it for free if I could find a model to address that group. That group fell apart. From what I've heard, it has to do with the finances, Mr. Chairman and the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament. What do you have to do with the financials? If you have not followed, there have been two other MPs left officially. I think it's about Ambassador Nog and Ambassador Radojicic. What does that have to do with finances says in his open letter, the MP Radojicic. Namely, he addressed all members of the movement, which was registered as a party. Although you know, Mr. Chevarlic, they don't like to say they're a party because they once swore they'd never be a party, but they did because they registered like that. So Radojicic addressed these members with an open letter and what he said on the subject of his dissatisfaction that culminated in abandoning and disintegrating the parliamentary club, as he said on the subject of finance. He says the following – says that the Nogo, who had been expelled from the Dvora before, was inside the summit a leader in countering crime. The crime that was committed there was against Nogo. That's what Radojičić says, so they kicked the leg out. So then Radojicic points out, and Radojića is expelled, and what else does a member of the presidency say at that point, Radojicic? He wrote that in the movement, in Dvori, he was silent about financial malfeasance and serious crime, and he said -- Dvori's finances are hiding from the state and says they are hiding from both members and party officials. One report is sent to the internal structure, the other is sent to the state, the third, the real one, only a few people are known. No one in the Twors knows the real money flows. Many fellow Members are involved in crime. Many of God’s justices have been dragged through the mud in the media, questioned by the police for this reason, and none of the real cause is responding. He says -- we have to get it out of here, where the money is, and who, be careful now, stole the state's budget, but also the Dvori budget, asked Radojicic. It has to do with finance, and it has to do with what he wanted to point to, I believe, and Mr. Chevarlic, with the question of a responsible relationship with money, with the question of good business. He was commenting, for example. Some fiscal parameters, he was talking about some trends. He mentioned, say, imports - exports. I can't help but look back, Mr. Chevarlitch, when you say - something fell last month or before last, I don't know exactly what you meant, export. Are we talking about that export that grew stable, take care of it, from the moment Alexander Vukic and SNS started taking care of this country? This exports that are one of the main pillars of our development have grown all the time. Do we then have the right as representatives or former representatives of those who were responsible for making the exports very low-level to criticise its higher level today and with what basis, for what purpose? Is export coverage higher today? The reason for criticism, is there even room to criticise anyone who is a representative, even if a former representative of those whose time that trunk, as it is today, was only greater? I don't think that's very politically correct. When we talk about debt, on the subject of those reports that exist or don't exist, depending on whether we like them or if we're officially familiar with them, the Public Debt Administration exists and I guess everyone knows that. How many times on the other side of the hall have members of the former regime called on – there is now a report on the Public Debt Authority site. On that same site, which we know to be familiar with, among those reports, which we know they've read and interpreted so far, you can see how much this debt is and what's very important, is that if you look at it as a percentage, it's about 50% today and it's pretty much 50%, I guess everybody knows that without me saying anything, significantly below that 70 and something, almost 80%, as much as it used to be. If we want to criticize today, let's be so honest and say yes, this is a great result. People, this is not only below the level of masturbation, this is drastically, dramatically better than many European countries have today. If we're going to criticize, is there room to criticise here? Is there a basis or is it only fair and human to say – for this all the honor. I'll find some other reason to tell you what I think might be better, but for this really hat down there. I think it's the only correct approach here. We're talking about a surplus. And that fiscal council talked about the fact that the surplus exists and many others have talked, but how can we criticize it because it exists or pretend we don't see it? Do you remember how much surplus was at budget level? When we adopt the budget here and say planned and the deficit considered five times smaller will be projected, watch out for five times smaller than for Europe is a good standard. Five times better than for a developed world is a good standard. We're told - there won't be. We end up with a surplus, we're told -- well, that's not good either, actually, it's even worse, so here they say it's not good to have a surplus. I'm just wondering how it's not better to have something that you've done, earned, earned honestly, which you haven't added to, that you haven't stolen from anyone, that people in this country have provided for themselves to be able to invest in good things, among other things, and for those apartments for the security forces you know we're doing. Yesterday in Kragujevac, one such project was launched, in the King. So how is it not good to provide good space for this country to invest in such things? I think it's just things to say, if we're going to be honest and human, good for this and hat down for this. How does that compare to a two-digit deficit, to inflation, that was two-digit? The city of Belgrade to look at at the time of that great genius Gilas, his projected deficit for more than 20% was a great thing. There was something that was meant to be normal, what we were going to talk about. A day today to ask him what you'd do to masters today? He says, "Well, I'd do it all the same." That's what he says. We plan a deficit in legal frameworks, which is, say, six or seven percent, he says – I would give it all for free. When do you ask him where? He says, 16% more deficits. Well, that's going to be over 20 again, man. What's the matter with you? He says, "What is it?" So, that sort of thing, that irresponsibility, that kind of non-domestic relationship, the pestilence relationship, think of a better expression for yourself, compare it with the surplus, plus, with something that's good and that's leading to us raising wages today and increasing pensions, we've talked about it many times. I don't think there's any basis. What was the economy like in 2018? What's the latest data? Here's your data from the other day. Last year's business Serbia, according to the Business Registers Agency, means another alleged, official data that exists, liked it or not, has earned a net profit of nearly 500 billion dinars. So 4.2 billion euros, if you prefer in euros to count, which is a growth of 33.7% compared to the previous year. There's fresh data. Are they bad? There's something I wouldn't say. Is there anything to hold them back? Well, I wouldn't say, only to pretend that we're a genius like Jeremic and Gilas to honk for months -- industrial production fell, it fell, it fell, then official data came, so it didn't, but it grew between one or two percent, but it grew. So, a little bit of official data. What are the salaries? Did we talk about 460 euros? What did we get as a counterincentive? That there's no way. That's bullshit, it's never gonna be. Here's another official information. Average January earnings 54,521 dinar. In envelopes of 460 euros, something beyond that. Was it? Well, sure, it was. To all of this, we're just adding more and we know it's not enough, we know we need more, we know, we're ready to work, we're willing to work as hard as we've done so far, to make it even better. Why? Because we are convinced that this is the only right way, because we also have a great example of how to work hard, how to work day and night, and finally make good results. Such good results, which, whose average salary was around 320, 330 euros, never come close. Never close. Their standard and their norm, what Radojićic was talking about, stealing moves, stealing from colleagues, stealing from each other, at the end of the budget theft and stealing the state. It's their daily routine, their daily standard, something they live with today, which is why they're still biting and gnawing today, so they're leaving each other and disbanding MP clubs, council groups and asking God what's not. In doing so, they quote, as George Washington was -- we're one big papazian of everything and everything today, because we prefer to ride together rather than hang. George Washington said something else. He said, "Being alone is better than being in bad company." If there was any better understanding in the meantime, I see that it is better to be alone than in bad society, I believe that Mr. Ševarlic understood it a while ago. I see that now, seems to have understood both Nogo and Radojicic and some others. But more important than knowing you too, Mr. Chevarlich, being alone or not, it's much more important to be on the right side. Today in Serbia to be on the right side, it means to support these results that for the country, for its future and for our children, were voted by Aleksandar Vukic, the Serbian government supported by SNS, today being on that side means being on Serbia's side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53634	Thank you, Dr. Orlic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure of the Prophet of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53635	The Rules of Procedure did not hurt Verica Radet, but Mr Marinkovic, and if Verica Radeta had sat where Marinkovic is now, and her place was there, there would be no damage to the Rules of Procedure. So you had to react to the start of a discussion of a colleague who had just spoken. In such an ironic way, to say the lie, and to address one MP group, specifically the SRS, although he did not mention us it was inadmissible. I'm sorry, I thought only the minister didn't know, when I saw, they don't even know who would vote, here's another one without a brief instruction fee. So whether there's a report on their budget audit or not on the DRI site, we're not interested at this point. To say that the MPs don't come from huge materials, and yet think of us, to look at which all the reports of the DRI arrived is absolutely unacceptable. You know, we're SRS, we're not from that parliamentary group whose MP was public on the show a dozen days ago, I was already saying that here, from the authorities he said -- you know, we're making so many laws that I don't often and I don't know, I just vote, and then only after I have time to look at what I voted for. So that doesn't apply to the SRS, and he can't tell us that we're not here to look at materials, because anyone who looks at this Assembly might not like us, but he can't tell us that we're not looking at materials and we don't know what we're talking about, that's what no one can tell us. You had to react for something else. Because we are not the only ones being offended as an MP group, but the entire National Assembly. And he said it was enough to exist on the final account review site, no, we insist on the final bill that is legally binding to adopt the National Assembly. Under the Constitution, we are obliged to adopt the final budget account. The budget and final account of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia binds the National Assembly. Here, tell your colleagues this education was free. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53636	Thank you, colleague Radeta. I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. I also believe that my colleague Orlic, as far as I know from Parliament and his performances, does not use irony in his manner and we speak. So I didn't notice. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (No) The right to the replica has Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53637	Thank you. I really don't know what in the context of my discussion on the Rules of Procedure, it points to the financial business of Dveri. I was neither a member of the Dvori, nor a member of the Dveri, nor a member of any function, nor a member of the Parliament group, and, as a non-party MP, I used at least one dinar for any needs during the previous three-year period. Secondly, when it comes to surpluses and public debt, etc. I'd like someone to tell me once, here's the minister, did he reduce the public debt in 2018 compared to 2017? General, total. Is public debt reduced per capita or increased in 2018 compared to 2017? Thirdly, when we started the debate for this fourth session, we were in principle having a debate with the argument that economic success is exceptional and that these commitments made by this law on the conversion of loans in Switzerland can practically be covered by budget surpluses. Now we have a second proposal that the state should be in charge of bonds to settle those obligations.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53638	Thank you. The word is Marijan Rističević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53639	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of 106 and 107. Rules of Procedure. It is nice that certain MPs give up parliamentary groups and political parties on whose list they are elected. As far as we know, Mr. Chevarlic was elected on the Dvori list and DSS, on the election quota of Dveri. So, are you a member or not, if you're a member of an election list, for me, it's a little more than being a member. Next, it is very nice and I welcome that former MPs Dvori, deny the financial malfeasance that the political party committed and likely the creator of these malversions was Bosko Obradovic, in a people known as Bosko Ljotic left-handed. The point is, then, that the political party received money by the number of MPs. So the political party Dvori was also getting money for Mr. Chevarlic and that's an annual amount of about 40 million. In what I was investigating and the application I signed, it was about money laundering of over 30 million dinars, where the political party instead of money to invest in the campaign and in the political party, invested it in entrepreneurial stores and the same day the cash was raised, 30 million dinars to a dozen entrepreneurial stores, mostly from Borca, and that money was returned to Bosko Obradovic's pocket. Did the MPs know or not, that the money they received to the political party of the Dvora, by the number of MPs, was abused? They probably are, because I've warned them over the last year several times, and it's commendable that these financial malfeasances are being denied at this point. I'm not asking you to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53640	Thank you, colleague Risticevic. I don't think I've hurt the Rules of Procedure, and we know about those appeals, you've brought them out several times, so you know who should react. The word has Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53641	Thanks again. Mr. Chevarlic, I thought it was quite clear, I mentioned you as a former member of the Devere Parliament Group, in that context, I didn't say either that you didn't have any financial benefits, I'm not getting into it. I'm just telling you, this Devere MP group, which fell apart this morning, seemed, as far as I remember, members of a political organisation called Dveri, is that right, these political organizations whose recent member of the Radojicic presidency has publicly claimed that it has become encumbered in crime, according to man, crime in our ranks. She was stealing, not only her own cash register and ensuring that a certain, narrow circle of people, probably the immediate environment of Bosko Obradovic, abnormally rich, but that she was stealing, which is the scariest, in the whole story of the budget, the state was stealing. So that's what Zoran Radojićic, the man who was your fellow MP yesterday, you left that group a while ago, he seems to me this morning, and that parliamentary group no longer exists. I pointed out that fact, you were talking about what are examples of good practice and successful finance. Well, I said that what's going on in the Dwarves is obviously not good examples. Something much more important, you asked for public debt. So, the Public Debt Administration site, I said a little while ago, who's got to hear me, here's what I'm reading from him now, 50.09% absolute. You asked if he changed last year? December month, 31st day, 2018. 23 billion 015. A year before that, 23 billion 222. Is it less than 200 million? Yes, it is. You want to go back to percentages? Over 4% less. Well, however you look less. So what's the issue? Then what's wrong? Then what prevents you, once again, from doing what I said a little while ago, be correct and say, for this, every honor, hat down, it's great, but let's move on. We'll react to it always with -- right, you're right and we'll move on, and it'll be even better, don't have any doubts. That was important to hear you citizens watch this. As far as I'm concerned, this is where I end up, Mr. Chairman, free education. Thank you for your help. I always appreciate the good will of whoever it comes from. With me not loving anything for free, I like to thank you for your help. So, a thank-you sign on my part, this is what the front page of the report you received, each of you individually, looks like to the parliamentary groups. There's a number under which the material is being seduced, so another, to say courtesy, this time on my side, you can even consider it free. This is to help locate the location of the material and the recommendation, make sure someone doesn't accidentally steal your mail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53642	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Jovanovic. (Milorad Mircic: Rules of Procedure. ) According to the Rules of Procedure, here is a colleague of Mircic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53643	Please, Mr. Chairman, pay attention to what certain speakers say. For the second time, Mr Orlic has presented something that is not founded in the Rules of Procedure that regulates the work of this Assembly. Mr. Orlic, we've received this report and it's attached to the site of the site, but here in Article 177, precisely, it's decadently said that this report is not worth anything, persuasively, as long as there is no debate in this House in the Assembly, until it is discussed by the committee in charge. What you have stated can only serve as information. Whether it is true or not, it should be established by the congregation, or by the board of directors, and then by the congregation. The report, which is said to be the commission's report, or agency, is then discussed. In order to be valid, to comply with the law, we respect Article 177. Don't with such irony, the best intentions are radicals to help in the work, legal work of this Parliament, not that you fight back that something is free of charge or not and how you react to free of charge. You're telling the truth, the truth is in article 177 of Mr. Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53644	I don't think I've hurt a single member of my 177nd colleague Mircic. Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in the voting day? No, I don't. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53645	Yes, so I told you a member, Mr. Chairman, will be completely brief and fully in good faith. So, I mentioned gratitude, I mentioned something for free because something like that was offered to me on your part. Remember that sentence – here's a little free education, etc? That's what I thanked you for, and for that, I made it up to you by offering something for free in return, in terms of what you said to Mr. Mircic, information. I don't think you've done anything wrong to say this is information for you. There's nothing controversial about it, but I'm glad you confirmed that you're familiar with this content and that's what we're talking about this morning. It's not our slow deeper than that question is getting to know or not. The minister said he was, and I understood that you were insolent and you said you weren't. I may have been wrong about that, but I'm glad you're getting to know each other, and I'm even more glad now that I know that no one's stealing your mail, which makes me calm.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53646	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger of the Faith of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53647	Article 27(1) Allow me, Mr Arsic, just to ask Mr Sinisha Malo, since you obviously skip it, when the MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia can expect a draft agenda in which the draft final account of the Republic of Serbia for 2017 will be, because we have a legal deadline, because we have a constitutional obligation to discuss it, so that we can see how you spent your money? You're not Vujovic, you don't care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53648	The word has a minister, Mr. Sinisha Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53649	Dear MPs, it is not a question of Minister Vujovic, the final accounts, if I am not mistaken, have not been in the Assembly since 2003. So they haven't been adopted since 2003 if I'm not mistaken, correct me. We'll take a look, and after all, I'll see you here, and we'll see you around. As far as I'm concerned, the sooner the better. We have nothing to hide, just to see what state these 2003 accounts are in and somewhere until 2012, 2013. I think, if we're already adopting all of them, to adopt them all, to show to parliament all the final accounts since 2003, because there must have been a problem some 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007 and 2008, something happened, and it wasn't in parliament. Let us see, and then let us put all things before the messengers of the National Assembly, and let them see and see the results that have been achieved in the last five years and those that have been accomplished ten years before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53650	Thank you. Thank you, Minister. The right to a replica has a colleague named Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53651	Minister, I'm sure you understand what we're talking about and don't pretend you don't understand. So, what happened by 2007? We're ready to talk, but if there's any doubt, it's a little late for the Assembly to discuss it. Then it's for the attorney general, so let's see who from that former government will be called by a public prosecutor, who might be held liable. You know, you've abolized many who have participated in these previous authorities, so don't do it that way. We are talking to you about the constitutional obligation, I have asked very precisely by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Article 105. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia obliges us to discuss the draft final budget. We can't if you don't deliver it to us as a suggestion. It is a very precise and clear question – when will you deliver the proposal, when will we discuss and adopt or not adopt the final account? And what it was, when we talk about this last one, we'll talk about it. You say - something was probably going on by 2007. Would you be so kind as to tell us what's been going on for the last seven years? What happened in 2012? Here, let's say, there's been a lot going on by 2007, and they're supposed to go to jail, and they're supposed to be taken away from their assets in criminal proceedings, all of it. But you have no answer to what happened last year, let alone what happened since 2012. Let's talk about it. But to begin with, fulfill your constitutional obligation. You've never had one before. This is the first time you as a minister have this obligation. That's why we're very well-intentioned, and we advise you not to enter what the ministers were entering before you either. You give us a proposal for a final account on behalf of the Government, or Government, and you, on behalf of the Government, to discuss it. You are a minister and a politician, it's every minister, but don't speak politically to us. We're politicians, but we're serious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53652	Mr. Sinisha Mali has the right to a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53653	Dear MPs, thank you very much. I respect your politics and your experience. So, once again, the most accurate thing I can say at this point is that in the shortest time period, we will look to the National Assembly to come out with all the final accounts from when they were gone until 2017, since that's what's done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53654	Right on line, colleague Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53655	Thank you, Chairman. Since the Committee has been mentioned to correctly define who is submitting a report on the implementation of the budget, it is the government of the Republic of Serbia, not the finance minister, the committee in charge discusses this. In order to be extremely honest, you cannot find documentation about what happened between 2003 and 2007 in the State Auditing Institution, but in the various institutions that need a certain auditory house to process and say what happened by 2007. Since 2007, we have so far had a record precisely because the State Auditing Institution is doing its opinion on the basis of the report on the implementation of the budget and that is what is good, because someone professional does a full report and simply presents it to the MPs. Obviously there is also a good will to determine what it was until 2007 by the Minister and the Ministry of Finance and simply to come here to the Serbian Assembly with a single joint proposal, let us have a public debate on what happened by 2007, what happened from 2007 to 2012, because since 2012, many financial international institutions have witnessed what we found in 2012 and what has happened so far and how fiscal consolidation and economic reforms have taken place and we can say today that we have successful public finances. Therefore, I think that we all agree as the MPs here that this should happen, but that this proposal should be comprehensive and follow continuity, because those who were supposed to respect the Constitution from 2003 to 2007, did not say that, those who were part of the public debt exceeded 45% simply in debt and did not respect the Constitution. Therefore, it is necessary to come out precisely with names that did not respect the Constitution and at what limit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53656	According to the Rules of Procedure, the peoples of the Ambassador Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53657	We're here again listening to the improvisation of everything the Assembly is supposed to be doing. Why improvisation? Because the Rules of Procedure, no matter what our radicals were supposed to do earlier, clearly defines this area. What the colleague was saying could only be done in the Assembly in a way that the Assembly formed a committee of inquiry.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53658	Just name a member, colleague Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53659	Article 68. The survey board can participate in the review of some events, something that has happened in the past period, and further jurisdiction are official institutions, whether by 2007, but here is one matrix that has been spinning for seven years. You tell us where the final accounts have been since 2012. You've been in power since 2012, you carry all the responsibility. Leave those stories alone, tell us radicals that Gilas is a thief. Why don't you arrest them? If they're thieves and criminals, bring them in, let the court judge them if they're guilty. You're distracting the public and you're stalling right now by claiming that the Assembly should discuss something that was in 2007, yes, after the survey committee's report, following the official institutions of this state's report. You can't improvise the functioning of this country as you imagine, how little Djokica imagined, and now you're going to manipulate. A clear question has been addressed to the Minister - when will you come to this House with a final account for 2018 to be discussed? You have the information you gave for 2017. When will the Government propose to consider the final account in the agenda, if you will for 2017 and 2018? That's the point of the question, not to keep us spinning around.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53660	My colleague Mircic, even if I wanted to, I couldn't break Article 68. The Rules of Procedure, all of it, even if I wanted to. This refers to the work of the committees of inquiry, and I, from the chair, cannot influence it at any time. Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in voting day about the breach of the Rules of Procedure? (No) According to the Rules of Procedure, the word of the People's Messenger is Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53661	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Article 106 and Article 107. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with much that my colleague Mircic said I agree, even with his desire to arrest Gilas, Jeremic and others from the alliance of thieves, frauds and Latvians. I am absolutely behind this, and I agree that they should be brought to justice. The only thing I disagree with is that we have to do it. The government is divided into judicial, legislative and executive. The prosecution is on its own, and the judiciary is independent. I believe that in 2009 and 2010, those who were the subject of the speech of counterpart Mircic and mine deliberately selected the court of their party, the prosecution of their party. They knew and how well they had done to this people, and they knew how well they had become rich and at whose expense, and so in time they selected the court of their party and the judiciary and the prosecution was independent and independent of this authority and not from the former. I'm not asking you to vote on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53662	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53663	I'm advertising a violation of article 107. I said, "Why don't you arrest them, because you're promoters and claims or the fact that they're thieves?" Well, hand it over to the prosecutor, and let the prosecutor go to court, and the court will make a decision, not keep yelling, like the wolf, the wolf, the wolf, and the village did not ultimately believe him. Don't say that. You're always giving us a back-up theme. It's a back-up topic, the former regime. Well, here, the minority over 30% of the ruling coalition is the former regime. What is your former regime? Well, you're already the former regime. Whoever's in power is already ex, should he count on moving to the opposition, will these elections, or will the next one be decided by the citizens? But what is your ex-determination? Well, isn't your former Rasim Ljajic? Aren't you the former Ivica Dacic regime? Isn't your former regime Vuk Draskovic? You want me to count more. Individually if it were over 40%? I know you individuals when you were in other parliamentary groups, or other political parties, and what does that even mean to you for Serbia's former? Well, one day you have to be ex, which would make the people wiser than ever.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53664	Article 107 of my colleague Mircic was right before yours, and now a precise attitude 1. I don't think I've violated the rules of the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in the voting day? Here's my colleague Rističević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53665	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising Article 103. And I'm lying again, and I'm going to commend Mr. Mircic again, we're the future former government, the future ex-government. I hope it takes us a while to be ex-government, but I agree there's no authority that hasn't fallen in one way or another. I believe this will remain long and will fall in a democratic way, therefore, in a democratic procedure. But now about the application, I have to call all the MPs, here, we all know that Pajtic was a thief, we all know that Goran Jesic was a thief, I did not as a party have province MPs in the movement parliament. A lot of parties, bigger parties and more games than mine had. Let's all cross criminal charges, dear gentlemen, MPs from the left and on the right who have been filed with claims that they are thieves, as I have agreed that it is an alliance of thieves, frauds and litigators. I'm free to say that I filed about 15 criminal charges against the gentlemen mentioned, and I'd like to see other fellow MPs who say we don't. So, on Zagorka Dolovac at the prosecution's office, it's that after a police investigation, and my information says that a lot of things have been confirmed, I believe it's true, but the execution is what I call the prosecution, so the trial didn't take place, and probably Zagorka Dolovac keeps it in a drawer. We did not choose Zagorka Dolovac, or we confirmed her choice, because it was me at that session that said that I would cut off my hand rather than vote for Zagorka Dolovac. And then I claimed that many things would not be prosecuted and that the prosecution and court had been selected since 2009 and 2010, that these were the courts of a party called DS and that they were protected in time and that the court of their party would not judge them and I am fully standing for these claims, but I agree with 95% of Mr Mircic's claims. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53666	Thank you. The word is from a colleague, Dragan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53667	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would only ask for a little attention and return to the original subject, the amendment of Mrs. Radete and, above all, the Law, that is, this Lex specialises in helping the debtors in the Swiss francs. Mr. Minister, I'd like to ask you, and first of all, to apologize to the MPs for being busy, I haven't attended this debate in principle, so I'd like to ask you just a few things that are here, I think, that still exist as a public misunderstanding, and also with us MPs. I'm one, I don't know if I'm rare, maybe there's still a fellow MP who's had a housing loan indexed in the euro since the end of 2003, and someone who's been hit very badly by this subject in private. Fortunately, I'm not in charge of Swiss, but I say, my personal matter and it's fortunate. What is my concern, first of all, is to praise the efforts of President Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia to resolve this problem and that is a good thing. What I would have as a question is, is it possible, Mr. Minister, that we as a government and as a state of Serbia couldn't force banks to solve this problem only on their expense. Here, that's the misunderstanding that simply puts me down as a MP, and especially after the Supreme Cassation Court's decision that the parts, or those contracts signed between the banks and the people who raised those housing loans, were illegal. On the other hand, decisions by the European Court of Human Rights on debtors in Hungary and on the third hand and countries in the environment that also have these problems and are trying, are being dumped that these problems will solve, and they have more people, such as Croatia, who say there are estimated to be over 50,000 such people, and in Serbia there is that figure somewhere around 15 to 16 thousand. Now we are wondering, here fellow MPs with full right called for the responsibility of the people who were finance ministers at the time, and that is the period prior to 2007 to 2008 when the largest number of loans and loans were taken. On the other hand, what about the responsibility of the people who were in the banks and who were and are then, and that is clear and judgment of the Cassation Court to say under the terms of the quote, deceived these citizens, and on the other hand, there is a personal responsibility of those people who, no one forced me to take a housing loan in euros, so no one forced them or chased them to take a loan in Switzerland. He was more favourable to them at that point, and what was later found, that's the problem we're dealing with here right now. Perhaps it would be good, Mr. Minister, here you are joined by the Minister of Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, that in fact, he and this law represent, because we have a donation from the Republic budget. It's giving as a social category for these people who will be able to cover part of the Swiss debt with them, and that part is, as far as we understand 15% of the budget, 18% of the bank itself and 38% of each loan individually. What is also good and what I think is commendable is that citizens who are unhappy because they feel that banks should pay because they have subscribed to the basic amount of credit three times for certain loans, they should bear these costs themselves so that they can continue and demand their rights in the courts of both Serbia and international courts. It's something that's commendable. What I'd like to ask you one more time as an explanation is whether there was any other possibility of making banks take states both through the NBS and with their authority and you as finance minister simply force them not to pay out of the budget, but to put up with it as a cost. Believe me, everyone here has been in and out of the banks, and we know what pains we all face together, and we here as MPs, as well as citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I believe that this is how we should simply force banks to bear these costs, and certainly not the citizens of the Republic of Serbia through the budget of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53668	The word has a minister, Mr. Sinisha Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53669	Dear MPs, Mr Jovanovic, had it been so simple then the agreement and agreement of banks and associations of citizens would have happened two years ago and five and 10, but unfortunately not everyone had their position, had their position, and it was absolutely necessary for the state to sit together with them for the same table and to compromise, a compromise that is being examined in this law. I just want to tell you and to answer your questions and decisions of the High Court and the experiences of the other countries. So we've taken into account the experiences of all the countries in the environment, and here, look, first the High Court of Cassation didn't say that contracts were illegal, that's very important. Secondly, you have experience in Hungary, where slowly, but surely that solution that the state has brought to court. You have, however, the position of the High Court in Greece, which has absolutely sided with the banks, it was a decision made last week, and said all loans must be paid in full. So there is no unique view of the same problem that occurred in several jurisdictions. So, both in Greece and in Croatia and Hungary, I don't know which other countries, and it's very difficult, based on their experience, to come up with a solution. We looked at their experiences, but we also looked at the situation in our country. There are no simple solutions, the situation is absolutely neither simple nor easy, you don't have a book from which you can read what happened and how it happened in some other countries, so you do the same thing here. No, everyone has their own experiences both negative and positive. We saw this law as the final solution for citizens in charge of the Swiss francs. So, that people who are left with no roof over their heads, people who have a big problem paying off these loans, to be helped in the right way, in the only possible way. We've got a maximum of 38% of the write-off of the credit, no tight interest, including all those who used those loans. So, the request from the banks, and the first proposal was just loans to six million dinars, but then we eventually fought the authority of the state to be all the users of the credit. The banks believed and held their position, the users of the loan also their own, but we found a compromise that was revised and to say in the draft of this law, that's the best the state could do at the moment. Who doesn't want to stick to the letters of this law in a way that applies to banks, of course, can still prove by judicial means and try to prove and prove that he's right. It's not forbidden by this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53670	According to the amendment, MP Aleksandar Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53671	I would like to thank the chairman, honourable ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for not accepting the amendment for all those reasons which are otherwise contained in the Serbian Government's opinion, which has been delivered to the MPs. I cannot accept the erasure of any member of the proposed law, because this would undo all the positive effects that this law produces. The law represents a direct benefit for more than 15,000 citizens in charge of the Swiss francs. This is how I want to support the efforts of the government of Serbia and President Alexander Vukic to help these people in this way. It is this bill that shows the difference between this government, the government and the former regime. The former regime has in no way shown any interest in dealing with this problem. In no way did he show any interest in helping these people. However, they showed no interest in other citizens' problems either. So they didn't want to listen to these people, to consider the possibility, to help these people in any way, and that's the fundamental difference between us and them. What are they doing these days? We had opportunities a few days ago to hear that there was allegedly a new party headed by Dragan Gilas, and in fact no new party was formed, but an existing party that already exists was reregistered. A man nicely taken into a buy-out party. Why bother, to make committees of parties, to build and party infrastructure, to collect signatures? The man took well and bought the party existing. They're used to doing it. It's people who don't know how to bother a little, try harder. Bought a man on almost a party, like before him the Wolf of Jeremic when he bought that party of his errand boy from Triestenik, where he's from. Who are all those new faces? Borko Stefanovic as the first fighter of the new party, a false leftist, a man who decided overnight to become left-handed, and before that stood for quite opposite ideological goals. Marinika Tepic, who wouldn't even know how many parties she's been to so far, or that Bastic who's been wild around Belgrade for days, and probably has a plan today to block the city. Every day a man causes some incidents and becomes known to the public for vandalism. It's those new faces. They are not new faces, but they are people who have been destroying Serbia for years and are now trying to portray themselves as some new people who are going to get Serbia out of its downfall, which they have caused. So, the same ones who have led Serbia for decades, destroyed it in every way possible, today they are the new political force. No, Serbian citizens know very well who Dragan Gilas is and who their boss is to whom they account. For all these reasons, I want to support this law, but also all other efforts by the government of Serbia and President Aleksandr Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53672	The second amendment was submitted by Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53673	As you all know, you too, Mr Arsic, today is April 23, 2019, and on May 15, 2013, Jorgenka Tabakovic, who you chose for the first time as governor of the NBS, said, so on May 15, 2013 – loans in Swiss will be settled in three weeks. What have you been doing since then? As possible, you are now Mr. Djordjevic here as a proposer of the Government, because Mrs. Tabakovic added a sentence – it will be a socially responsible solution, that today we have this law on the agenda "lex specialis", which is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, with all the applicable legal regulations and asked Mr. Arsic who now presides that he will not be able to deal with me in controversy, is it fair then, that Mrs. Radeta will eventually replace you if you want us to replicate, that we enter into a different legal project that would mean that we have to deal with conventions in front of international financial institutions. Did I quote you somewhat well, Mr. Arsic? That's just not true. He came out of Sinisha Mali and said it was simple, those of the Swiss Franks Association, they'd have worked it out before anyone knew how many years ago. You know, the second is when one problem solves responsible government and state, because I guess you're starting from it, and you want to demonstrate to these traitors from this Corps of the West, and you're doing it all these days, and it's simply true, that none of the states are stronger. Then you say now, and now how did the countries solve it in the environment. And what if we were to manage how they solved it, because if you were responsible for the government and wanted to solve it with much smaller consequences than at this point, with much less people's lives in terms of health, even physically, you would have done that when the lady announced it, on May 15, 2013, in three weeks, about half of June 2013. The model has and they must be characterized by Serbia's legal and constitutional system. Here, Mr. Arsic, you've been dealing with finance for a long time, both the budget and the final account, and finally, you've passed the Financial Protection Act for the users of financial services in Serbia, you've passed the Consumer Protection Act and the National Bank Act and the Bank Act. Where is it, in which the current law of the Republic of Serbia, that any credit, and these are loans with really, as someone has said well, loans with made delusion contracts, because they really were, turns out, for the users of those loans. If one of the people present tells me in what law in Serbia there is a currency clause, not a Swiss franc, but a euro, here's a colleague of Radet, that all these people were buying apartments by the equivalent of the Swiss franc at that point, as the euro at this point was paying for the purchase of that apartment. If that's the case, then why didn't you do what Ireland did? I don't have time now, and later we have more amendments, and I'm also talking about the case of Austria and other countries. What do you handle with models, as you say here, the worst countries in the environment? In 2010, Mr. Arsic, Mr. Minister Djordjevic, passed legislation in the Assembly to prohibit any taking of credit and business by banks. The French even went one step further, they filed criminal charges against bankers who offered and entered such an arrangement with people who, you have to admit, not everyone has to know what they're dealing with. He can, but it's hidden, even if the Minister of Government, like Parivodić did, invites him to do it, so an ordinary man will say -- well, here, the minister says, top of the state government, to take that loan, I'll do it. Therefore, the most just solution was that you do not now make this selection of citizens and help citizens who have taken loans in Swiss francs and those who have taken them in euro. What does this mean now, you've solved the problem, you think you've solved the Swiss franc loan problem, and what about those people who were in a more unfavourable position from 2005 to 2011? Now you want those who took the euro to make the difference? Well, you won't. So don't play with things that can be done very well. You say - that's what you have potential, me and the minister, Mr. Arsic, you in particular, will deal with the consequences. No, it's just those banks that got permission from the National Bank of Serbia that caused a disturbance in the country's monetary and financial system. If they did so, if they've unlawfully indexed these loans in Swiss francs in this way, then bring the law to declare them all worthless, so let those banks that made extreme profits and extra profits make up for it, and people to save themselves, and not just them, but also those others who took loans in euros. You're moving, as if that's not possible, so you know we talked about it a few days ago, they came here to do business under these conditions on this market. It is the state that prescribes these conditions. I now give you an example of Ireland, an example of France, you want Austria, you say – these are not enough examples. Not enough examples because you're afraid of what they're going to say to you there, Serbia is running, it's in a hurry, if it's going to get us into the EU. We're not interested in that. We're not going to the EU. We want justice and we want to save all these people and we want to do it by the laws and the Constitution of this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53674	The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53675	A few brief notes, ladies and gentlemen, I think it's important because of the claim that the National Bank has not dealt with this issue before. It is mentioned in 2013, in fact, that claim does not stand. In 2013, as I'm sure, you know, the National Bank has made a recommendation. It was a recommendation to the banks that, it was in May 2013, I am now checking, to return the overpaid money to the clients. What was the problem? What a lot of banks didn't want to follow that recommendation. However, the National Bank continued to deal with this problem. In 2015, you know and certainly very well, she suggested more measures, I think four or five different ways to solve this problem. Why are we doing this today and doing it this way? Is that what the minister representing the government was talking about? Because today, thanks to the stable finances, the Republic of Serbia is able and can afford to help relieve part of the debt in this way. So we're the 99 million we're talking about today to afford and we've talked a lot about how we came to be able to afford something like that today. It's this very serious and responsible relationship to finance and to our common budget. Just by creating some value that we need to remain, which then allows us to invest in things that we consider to be the most urgent or most important. These include investment in the future and that infrastructure that we often talk about and the highways we haven't had, which we've only announced for decades in other important projects that, too, a colleague Markovic talked about, are now disturbing the failures. I don't mean the amendment promoter, of course, I mean those who simply can't live more than the malice they feel when they look at what's going on, for example in the city of Belgrade, to arrange his center, to make it seem like Calemegdan is both more beautiful and attractive. Well, when they look at the parameters that say that tourists visit us year by year more and more because of such projects and such beautiful images that we built in the meantime, they can't live. Today we finance this, today we are participating precisely because we have managed to make a certain amount of greater exports, more attracting investments, you know for sure and that information, in this we are more successful than all the countries in the environment together, all to put them on one pile, then on one cup, and Serbia on another, will weigh us. So that's why we made room for ourselves so that we could make this solution today. As many people will be pleased, we will see from the fact that people will come out on their own. The same can be said of previous solutions, including the one from 2015 that defined the then National Bank, always leaves room for free will, the one who considers it to be of benefit, he can plead in the direction of accepting the solution. That's how it's gonna be when we pass this law. We force no one, we force no one to do anything, whoever concludes that this is better for him, he will accept it with free will, just as he once did, unfortunately I have to say free will, and decide to be in charge of Swiss francs or in some other currency. So, it's a question of free will, a question of that framework created by the state, I think it's an unequivocally clear question. It is also shown through investment in our future, but also through the care of every man. You don't need more proof of that concern than the scene you see, you see with your eyes the President of the Republic of Alexander Vukic coming across the street to people who are protesting the difficult problem and the pain that has hit them, talking to them and telling them - don't worry, Serbia can offer a solution today. Be assured that you will see this solution within a few days of today and then this solution, not only to be made, not only to come to the National Assembly and we are to discuss it today, but to this solution, in terms of the support of the express and representatives of those same people, those who applauded Alexander Vukic on that day because they saw that every man cared about it, and who said when they looked at how this solution was said, so indeed, here are all our remarks, and here every wish is incorporated into the legal proposal. When you look at all that, I think there's only one thing we can do. If we agree to take care of the citizens, there can only be one epilogue, two or three days from today, probably two days from today to meet again in this room, you and we and what to do, the only thing that's right is to vote for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53676	Right on line, counterpart Natasa SP Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53677	You know, Mr. Orlic, it's time for straw, and it shouldn't have come to all of this, and I'm not talking about what the current situation is and how much these previous steals and how it's compensated for the policy that you're promoting here and boasting about these results. Even if there was five times more money in the Republic of Serbia's budget, therefore, that there weren't these thieves and yellow authorities, that you didn't find such a register, that it wasn't all happening, five times that there was more money in the budget, that everything was stable for years, and this problem with the Swiss francs came up, it's not according to our party's fair solution. In terms of the proposal, you say that for the period from 2020 to 2023 you will plan 389,556.000,00 dinars per year for interest costs, and in 2024 you will plan 10,128,456.000,00 to settle costs and pay the principal. This is really a scandal. Because, in fact, you're giving banks state resources. You say - she made a recommendation to the National Bank. Please don't, I suppose, institutionally, the National Bank of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, in the field. They could have done that back then. If you have seen that they have disobeyed the recommendation of the National Bank of Serbia, you come to the Serbian Parliament with the law, to oblige them to do so, as these countries quoted me as saying. Now, you're going to put all those people who are waiting for any salvation, any relief. You say, "No one defends them." Well, do you think there won't be many such cases that they won't seek their justice in court? Of course they will, because, you know, someone does all that when they're down and they look at me, where I've been, what I've been doing. I wanted to talk about it, but don't you answer the line, but I'm gonna have to do it now. So we here in the Assembly passed the Mortgage Act. Article 7 of that law defines nicely, since it's all mortgage loans, right, Mr. Arsic, what's the value of this mortgage? If that bank takes away that apartment that's indexed in Swiss, illegally indexed in Swiss, and you have to pay more after that, so come on, please, where's the end and what's this about? You know, Mr. Orlic, no bank can give you today that you want to buy some real estate, that you want to invest something, everyone will ask you for a little more mortgage security than what's the real value of what you buy. But then they have to risk what they're doing. Not like this. The easiest thing was to make them rich, and then the state of Serbia to pay and they made a huge profit.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53678	Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53679	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. What needs to be avoided, anyway, is that we're trapped to run a campaign against the banks. You remember for sure, we talked about it when there was a debate here in principle. So why is this solution the only correct type of model, so to speak? For only one reason – it must be so, that the actors, all involved, and citizens and banks agree on it. If it is necessary for the state to participate in this and in its own way, we said – there is room now, we will and we can do it and we did it. But this was the only solution that was right. Citizens, you've noticed correctly, no one's pushing for anything. And who has decided to address the court, who has decided to address the court, and with this decision has the right to endure in that decision. If he wants to lead the dispute, he can continue. If he wants to accept the proposed solution, he will do it again with his own free will. But look, for example, what I'm saying may not sound interesting enough, I may be boring, but look, for example, the argument he's using, you might know about this professor from economic college, her name is Danica Popovic. She was advertised by Dragan Gilas in time, if you remember that, in a campaign for Belgrade elections, as his finance minister tomorrow. But what happens? She thinks of Gilas and his former regime all the worst. When you mention the finances to her in their time, she says – it was a disaster, that dog with the butter would not eat. Gilasu seems to have broken her heart, and since then she has no longer advertised as finance minister. Now she's advertising someone, I think, her assistant who happens to be Gilas's boardman in the Belgrade City Assembly, is such an independent guy. But it doesn't matter. Look at what she's saying about Gilas having a completely missed, populist, demagogue story, running a campaign against banks, and she'll say this in the modern world is beyond imagination. So this is for the Stone Age. It probably also has an impact on each other between these coalition partners, Gilas and Obradovic, on each other. So being with Obradovic probably means accepting rocks as some argument and some stone age. But what I wanted to tell you is so vividly she explains to Draga Gilas, that I think it's interesting enough for everyone to read. What's important here to say? You say, "It is not a just solution. It is more just." Let's talk about it. It's not a question. But this amendment, and that's why I'm calling for it not to be adopted, it's not. This amendment simply says to delete one member of the law. If you have a proposal on how a thing can be solved in a fair way, and it's for the state to be realistic, that it's something that the state can endure, with this state it has, you suggest it. A proposal to just delete a member, it just isn't. Since there is no better proposal, I think that the one we support is the best on the table and therefore I repeat the call for us to support him together in the voting day, and that Serbia will be stronger over time and have more room to help its citizens in this way and in similar ways. (President: Time.) Here's another piece of evidence. We'll work on our growth and development and further. In late April, Aleksandar Vucic will discuss this in China, at a summit concerning the project "The Belch and the Way", with Si Gingping, the President of the People's Republic, with Vladimir Putin, the President of the Russian Federation, with the President of the Swiss Confederation Maurer, with the President of the Republic of Belarus Lukashenko, so there, we are talking about good prospects for us to build on, to create more, and also that the good funds that will serve us to help our citizens, but also to invest in the future, over time we have more and more. Until then, let's come up with a better solution, if we can.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53680	Thank you, colleague Orlic. Right on line, counterpart Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53681	Mr. Orlic, with really my attempt to understand all this, you are telling us that we are campaigning against the banks that Djilas brought to Serbia, and destroyed, Đilas, Dinkic, Djindjic's mob regime after 2000, when the largest Serbian banks and people were shut down. So don't transfer us to do something that's not good for the country's financial system. These banks are going to do business or not, and what kind of campaign Gilas is running, who knows where his billions and millions of euros are, where he keeps them and what banks in the world. We are talking about these banks which, since not all banks have approved these loans, that we understand each other, while we are already pulling that parallel, the Serbian Radical Party is to strengthen the domestic banking sector and that we also have our Serbian Development Bank and that, how much is left in Serbia alone with the majority share of Serbian capital, and that is the question whether they – the Post Office, are the only ones who have such capital. And you said it well – he's going to China. Great, let him say -- here, these will go, we, Mr. Orlic, you say you can't accept because you delete that article, and we would like to propose a whole new law, and that's the only solution, but in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and with these laws that I mentioned earlier. You say he's going there. Great, let him say, well, then we want another Chinese bank, these if they want to go, it doesn't matter, they don't want to do business on this market, we pass such a law, they get angry, they go. But that's how many kamaks they've bought. 'Cause, you know, we're not gonna do that folk thing with the fat geese. They did this to the citizens of Serbia and the state is also obliged by the government of the Republic of Serbia to protect its citizens. And now that we're going on the elements, there's really no time, there's going to be more amendments, they're going to tell all the fellow Serbian radicals, how to do it, and how to avoid that trap further, then you'd realize that it's possible by passing, but quite different, new law.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53682	Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53683	Thank you very much. New banks came in the meantime, you know? New banks, including Chinese banks. Here, news, January 2017, China begins work 21. So that's one of the things that are in Serbia today is reality. It's not something that tells it for the sake of a story, so we say, "One day it will be." We were able to make those results. Something else is more important. I didn't give you a second to do what Dragan Gilas did. I said that we all have to make sure that we don't fall into that trap and mention that it's more interesting, let's say, when it's explained by Danica Popovic who is considered someone who should be close to Gilasu, but apparently, in the meantime, he dumped him. That's not why he was too upset, his bank account isn't even smaller for the euro. On the contrary, I'd say his bank account is excellent. The way I see it, it's so good, Mr. Chairman, maybe you saw it, too, that a man has enough to buy parties. Here, the other day he became president of the Green Party. So, Comrade Gilas today is a great expert and environmental authority, dealing with various issues, including the issue of banks. Does that have anything to do with it, Mr. Risticevic, with those allegations from his former party, DS, that they're interesting them with green interest? I don't know, it might have something to do with it, it's all a green story, but his contusion isn't any worse. On the other hand, I believe he is not comfortable with the words, this is exactly the text of the teacher, says – Dragan Gilas says: "Don't listen to fairy tales about the risk of business in Serbia, which is why loans are too expensive. People are getting skins from their backs all over the place. Whoever does not work according to European rules, feel free to close their offices and leave." It concludes – this should be remembered. This shows he's even worse than the ones he criticises. This is what I was pointing at. As for better proposals, Mrs. Jovanovic, we don't mind, suggest them. Well, suggest we talk. Right now that we are discussing this amendment, it is clear that it is no better than the proposal we have on the table, the legislative proposal, and therefore I continue to call on us to support the law together anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53684	The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53685	The esteemed Vice President of the National Assembly, normally I advocate that this amendment be rejected for the reasons stated by the Government, because it primarily interprets the basic concepts, or terms in this law. This law, as we have said, solves the problem of over 15,000 citizens. I must say, Mr. Minister, that no one but this government and this president has tried before, has ever known or intended to solve this burning problem for our citizens. And they settled it very well, all three subjects agreed, although the negotiations, as we heard and how informed we were, were difficult, but to the satisfaction of all. Those of the Alliance for the Second Robbery of Serbia, I call them, are now against this law. Remember only Janko Veseinović, called Janko Stanocrat, in a people known for stealing the apartment of Milici Barzi refugees from Obrovec, on the street of Brača Kurjaković, as in this hall, or in a high home, he wore inscriptions related to solving this problem, and now he is against it. Now he's up against that solution. The hypocrite Janko Veselinovic is now in favour of dialogue, and at 14. The Congress of the Union of Communists of Yugoslavia, where my childhood was, was also Janko Veselinovic. Believe it or not, he's pleading to the individual delegates of 14. The Congress of the Union of Communists of Yugoslavia prohibits discussion. So, this is Janko Veselinović. I don't want to talk about others. But, Sergei Trifunovic, called pee, in a people famous for saying that he would wet on the grave of the President of the Republic, on April 13th at a gathering here outside this high house, not only did the President of the Republic, the Government, the MPs and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but also the citizens present, so-called. their supporters, who slowly left the assembly after his speech. Indeed, his colleague Biljana Srbljanovic, who said, quotes: "The unwashed, lying Sergei is your leader. He's always been a sneaky liar, always the same way he drags me into his tabloid stinking life. He always licked me, was a gold medal in getting his ass up. He always lied, always smelled, always scratched for money, for a meal, for a drink, never washed, always cheated on his colleagues. “ A quote has been completed. Biljana Srbanovic, 20th of January 2011, page 1 in one daily list. The Honorable Chairman, as for other colleagues who are against this law and MPs, and also part of the Belgrade Faculty of Philosophy, who supported these walkers, is also a certain professor Dr Isidor Jaric, do you know which one she, who has sharply criticised us? Here, now you'll find out. She finished her master's degree at Soros College in Budapest. Believe it or not, on this basis, the Faculty of Philosophy in Belgrade has admitted illegal master's degree and based on it has doctored. She hasn't completed her master's or doctoral studies, but you know on what subject, honourable MPs? On the subject “The position of the woman in the list of Bazar”. None of us university professors would have even given it up for seminar work. What to say about the second, Jovi Bakiæ, the doctor, who called us thieves, hohstuplers, both us and the Government and the President of the Republic. On Friday, so last week, he was elected the third time as a doctor. I congratulate him on this occasion. This is the one who gave the Master of Studies the student – "The Role of TV Happy" in creating the leader's cult, the Alexander Vukic case in the show "Cirilica" and "Tough Word". Imagine how rude these colleagues are to mix politics in class. It is the same as if I were to give a doctoral study student "The Role of the Faculty of Philosophy in Belgrade in the creation of prosaclysm, intellectual ignorance and diletantism, the case of Jovo Bakic". Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, what about the actor, it seems to me his name is Lecic, Blecic, right? Blecic was a minister of culture. Lecic, I'm sorry, Lecic. Did you hear his laugh when he said he cheated on us? A colleague, Marijan Risticevic, recorded it and placed it on his field and instead of a scarecrow, scares that laugh of crows and crows no longer come to his property. In the end, I really congratulate you once again, Mr. Minister, the Government, which has solved this problem of 15,000 citizens and I am taking the opportunity to thank you, Mr. Minister, the Government and the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic, for your first time in 28 years, to solve the old foreign currency savings of Serbs from Croatia, the most endangered part of our people. Many government presidents, many presidents of the Republic and ministers, have passed, none felt that, although we insisted, the problem was resolved, so they will receive their first war of foreign savings as early as September 1st this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53686	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Here you go, colleague Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53687	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as regards Branislav Lecic, who once served as Minister of Information and who banned several media, who banned the most violent newspaper "Nacional" at the time, etc., a man who today advocates the Kobajagi for freedom of the media, such freedom that he then launched, I would not wish for any media. However, here, counterpart Orlic spoke of Dragan Gilas qualified to, by the way, say Marko, I must say that Branislav Lecic's laughter is effective. No more crows in peas have gone since I've played his laugh from the loudspeaker, there's nothing to be missed. And I hope that in the fields of the sunflower they give the same result. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, grateful for this applause, I must tell you that Dragan Gilas is qualified for the Green Party, not because he was cut, it's unheard of to choose a man as president of the Green Party, a man who is in an outrageous affair in King Alexander, in order to serve a little money for the citizens of Belgrade, while being a thief, cut down 400 or 500 platans in King Alexander's Boulevard, and it's outrageous that such a man, who cut down 400 to 500 trees, who they called a carpenter thief, would be president of the Green Party. But, well, I'm saying he still has some component that leads him to the green parties. It's green dollars. This man loves these green bills so much, and it is likely that in the Green Party they have assessed that he is qualified because of this green paint to lead the Green Party, warmly hoping that after the marines and bought another four, five MPs, former thieves, etc., from one thief to another, it is obvious that the journey of some of our fellow MPs will be filled with suspicious intentions. It is likely that they too are green-dollar lovers, and even those from the Green Party have estimated that some green dollar could reach them and probably trade something with that political party and probably the currency was that dollar. Well, that's why I believe that Dragan Gilas is qualified for the Green Party. As for my amendment, I support the government. So, this country has already intervened with Agrobank, Universal Banks and Vojvodina Development Banks to save the savings, to save their deposits and savings in banks, through the Agency for Rehabilitation and Banks Banks, we have paid hundreds of millions of euros to that agency so that these losses that DS rules can be compensated and that those who invested in that bank will not be harmed, or that their stakes will certainly be safe. We know very well who is in the Development Bank, from Pitiæ to others, was an expert on these banks, and I often have a habit of saying that when the DS ruled, I didn't know which side of the counter banks were being robbed. It all seems to me that during the rule of the Drpocrat party, bank robbery was done exclusively on the inside, by keeping all the problematic loans from these banks as a partner mare, by keeping foreign banks guaranteed by the domestic state, their liquidity and their positive business. So, I didn't bring these foreign banks and it's a miracle, and take this away from me from the time of power, that today Bosko Obradovic, who was a real refreshment here, a fighter against foreign banks, when he came here for months, was talking about how he was against foreign banks, how he was for domestic banks... However, we see now that Bosko Obradovic is walking with those who brought foreign banks and who often issue loans from virtual amounts of money that we later have to make to these banks to pay. So, a man who, for good reason, rebelled against foreign banks today walks with those who brought these foreign banks here and destroyed domestic banks and, more or less, walks with persons, politicians who brought these foreign banks, and debts, destroying domestic banks, made at the University of Banks, the Vojvodine Development Bank, Agrobanks, the New Agrobank that was set up in a criminal manner, and to cover up the machinations in 2012, ahead of the elections, made by Nikezic, DS, Bojan Pajtic and others, and Tesla Bank not to mention in Zagreb that these luckys, the unfortunates of the Dropocratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53688	The word is from a colleague named Radet, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53689	I thought that Marijan Risticevic would challenge me to a replica, but I have to supplement him, so here's his line. It's incomplete information, Mr. Risticevic, when you talk about this Lecic that successfully disperses your crows. He did shut down the paper in 2003, and do you remember why? One newspaper was shut down because of the daily horoscope, because on the day of Zoran Djindjic's murder, for the horoscope sign in which Zoran Djindjic was born, he wrote that anything unpleasant would happen to all those who were part of that sign that day. He concluded that there was an unpleasantness, which happened to Djindjic, foresaw the newspaper. These aren't insinuations. This is what the man said back then, he was a minister, remember, Mr. Arsic, that's what he said at the assembly session, but the assembly was closed. That same Lecic, who scares the crows of Mariana in the field, and what's good, which disintegrates them, would now shut down some media again. Now I see that the loudest thing in the world is to turn off the TV Pink, and I just want to remind myself that before, it seems to me, two, two and a half years, for more than two years, he's been working on TV Pink, on some show that was such a humorous guy, and entertained the people, probably for serious money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53690	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević, right to replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53691	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Radeta is partly right, but if I were to list all the sins of Mr. Lecic, I think this session would be extended for a few days. I wasn't an MP after 2003. Mrs. Radeta was and could have followed Mr. Lecic's development path, which was a moral misery, when I must say so, so you can't believe it. So he banned it at the time, while he was a minister, even distribution of Podgorica's Day, because it was written there that one bodyguard who was with Ceda Jovanovic was a bodyguard, I think, and the Zemun clan or the Legion or something. He forbade it because of this text, the text must have been written by Brkic, journalists were arrested, etc. That man stands for freedom of the media. When we add that his party champions were changing the editors as they were told, that they were bringing Mrs. Zekic in because she wrote the truth, when we think of breaking into the Courier, when we remember the arrests of the owner of Raja Rodic, when we think of, say, banning BK television with long pipes, when one national television went in and banned, and when we hear that man advocates freedom of the media, it's such a hypocrisis. I can't call Lecic otherwise, but with one moral misery, I suggest that, if the courts hear me, they condemn him to community service. I have to spend batteries to broadcast his speech, and I believe that many peasants would be pleased if a court condemns Branislav Lecic that he has to walk in the fields every day and scares crop birds, scares all over Serbia. I think that this socially beneficial work and how it would produce results in the export of olives, grains from our country. And let me tell you, Mrs. Radeta, you forgot that, when I said that moral misery, I was thinking of moving birds. You're all talking about the marines, so it wasn't Lecic that changed the parties less than the marines. Let me just tell you that he was a minister of the DS, and then he was a Christian Party, for a time. That's when the late Batic died, so when there were 140,000 euros left in the account, so when they played that vice president, what was his name, they took the party. He was an LDP, so when that rare wine was drunk with Cedomir Jovanovic and the money was gone, he went to the fourth party and participated in the elections as My Serbia. As I recall, it was his fourth party and return to the DS, which is something quite different from 2001, we can count as Branislav Lecic's fifth party. That's why I suggest that during the day, he must go to at least five fields for these five great sins. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53692	The word is "Verica Radet," right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53693	A colleague, Marijan Risticevic, has brought a lot of facts he has forgotten and has simply forgotten, and we simply need to complement ourselves so that what we want to tell the citizens of Serbia does not remain unarranged. We're a little out of the agenda, but as far as we're concerned, we're always up for that kind of debate. We've got time for the agenda. A colleague Risticevic has a lot of right to talk about Lecic and Marinika Tepic, but I am afraid that everyone in this room does not have the right to talk about this type of flyer. If a true democratic, parliamentary spirit is sincerely wanted to be established in the National Assembly, then you should accept the SRS proposal, all of you, to stop flying, to accept that proposal that already stands at 7-8 months, and to return in the Law on the selection of MPs to the constitutional provision under which the MP can make his mandate available to the party whose list has been elected as a member of the People's Parliament. If that sacrade provision, which has given the MP a mandate, had been unconstitutional, which is even worse, is now less whether or not she is a naharadian, but unconstitutional, if she had not been incorporated into the law, we would not have Lecic, or Marinika Tepic in that sense. This is amazing, if they go back to the National Assembly, maybe they'll come back to participate in the work, I'm talking about these MPs, it's really going to be a serious question here to determine which party they belong to. They stopped coming to the Assembly as members of a party. Now, if they come back, they'll be members of the third party. So they've already made 14 MPs without a parliamentary group, some stand-alones, free MPs, I don't know what they're called, and they've all done it on stolen terms. We really need to seriously discuss this bill of ours, to present all the facts for and against, that the amendments are possibly being made from all parliamentary groups and to achieve what was achieved on the SRS proposal in 2000, when Marijan Rističević voted as a member of DOS for our proposal on the election of MPs because he was unique and legal and just. That's what we want to do through amendments to the Law on selecting Members of the People and, among other things, to close our mouths to all those who say they have no conditions to go to elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53694	Right on line, MP Marijan Risticevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53695	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, it is no secret that I voted for Djindjic's government, for that unfortunate Lecic, who now has to do it in fields and gardens. So it is no secret that in 2003 I refused to vote together with Moma Trajkovic, Professor Simonovic, etc., resulting in the fall of the government of the gentleman, so to speak, Mr Zivkovic. But here we forget one key thing. Not only did Gilas buy Marinika, Gilas didn't buy only the Democratic Party, Gilas didn't just buy himself the Green Party, it qualified him for dollars or because he was a carpenter, that's what I was saying. It's not Gilas' fault he bought the MPs' club. It's not Gilas' fault he bought the president of the Parliament Club. It's not Gilas' fault he bought the former RRA, and so, along with Sorlak, he made hundreds of millions of euros, selling fog. The most successful fog dealer is Dragan Gilas. But you forgot this team they put together, Mrs. Radeta. You forgot to say Chad Chupic. Moral boulder of misery. So that's the man who was the Anti-Corruption Agency and invented the meeting of the Board of Appeal. So someone complained about the admission at the Anti-Corruption Agency and that he would refuse, to receive his friend and friend, he rejected the complaint and wrote that it was done by the Court of Appeal and forged the signatures of two of his colleagues. So, Cedomir Čupic, who now as a moral integrity should negotiate, I don't know, with us, who should be conducting the dialogue, this Cedomir Čupic has received this criminal application. Cedomir Čupic confessed to the crime, and the prosecution gave it instead of falsified official documents and everything else, and so little of that criminal act reduced it as unconscious business, but as a criminal act. He confessed and was punished for something monetary. That's when you deal with the prosecution and you pay a certain amount of money, and that crime doesn't go to trial, you don't go to jail, you pay a certain amount, and Cedomir Cupic, of course, had money. Not to mention the objections of his students to certain attacks of certain species. I suggest Tanja Voytehovski, when she was already listening there to that Yutka, the butt, to find all these students and organize one show with those students, let's see that moral clump of Cedomir Chupic after the confession of the crime. So he confessed to the crime and thus became a criminal who is due to talk today, probably wants to talk to the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister, the MPs, etc. Let's see what this man's done, and I believe she could re-deliver that lie detector, what was it, and see if he was telling the truth and whether he had some sexual illusions about the students he was teaching. So it's not just Gilas, Lecic, Jeremic, Reis Efendia. This is also about Cedomir Chupic, who is a member of the team. About Srdjan Dragojevic not to speak, who called us pigs here, etc. In Orwell's farm, pigs behave like humans, and when I look at Srdjan Dragojevic, it seems to be the other way around. I guess people act like I don't say anything else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53696	Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Right on the line, the People's Messenger of the Faith of the Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53697	I finally understood what Mr. Risticevic was actually trying to say. Last night, he confused me when he wrote on his Twitter account that someone had founded a party, and he didn't start it, but bought it. It should be accurate on Twitter, Mr. Risticevic. People read that a lot. That just confused me a little bit. Of course, when it comes to this Cedomir Cupic, you're right, he did attack students. If someone in the course of a criminal case makes a settlement with the prosecution, that is why, all the lawyers know it, confesses to a felony, but only settles to get either a parole or a minor sentence, etc. He admitted that he was guilty of molesting a fellow student. It's good, Mr. Risticevic, that they remind you that you didn't vote for the government of Zoran Zivkovic. There are several MPs here who were in the O.R. when Zoran Zivkovic was elected Prime Minister. I really have to mention it as, I mean, the hardest in some sense day in the politics of each of us sitting there. The government was elected days after Djindjic's murder. It's normal for the government to have to choose. The state can't be without a government, no government president, no matter what happens. I am not saying this because of some regret for Djindjic, but because of the fact that Zoran Zivkovic was someone who was being weighed down and who happened to run for Prime Minister then, because the project of those who organised this murder was to be Nebojsa Covic and then when Zoran Zivkovic was pushed in and when they chose him, again at a closed session, for the Prime Minister, congratulated him, laughed, he received congratulations, applauded. We who did not participate in it, he also knew that Arsic was there, we were shocked that someone could, we understood that he had to accept the function, but that it was in a modest way, modestly, but no, it was like that with fanfare, with laughter, with congratulations and it actually speaks of the moral character of Zoran Zivkovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53698	Right on line, MP Marijan Risticevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53699	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when Zivkovic's government was shot down, we were suspicious of a few facts, which is why we canceled Mr. Zivkovic's trust. First, he was the federal interior minister. The prime minister of one of the members, federal members of the then state union or confederal, was killed, call it what you will. The second thing, when the government was elected by the interior minister, Mr. Mihajlovic, at the proposal of his fellow federal interior minister, who took the position of the murdered prime minister, adventured, was re-elected on his proposal as interior minister. These are very suspicious facts. That is why even today when radicals propose to investigate the political background of the murder of Zoran Djindjic, which is why I am voting for the proposal. Today and in the future, I will vote to examine the political background, but complete, to examine how it is possible for the federal and republican interior ministers to survive, and the other to advance and take the position of the murdered prime minister even though they were responsible in one way or another for the security of all officials, including the murdered prime minister. So, to that question, the courts never gave an answer, and that one Anthony Mongton and Black, what was the name of the other, the regional bosses, six of them from the CIA were never called here by our authorities to be questioned for whom they agreed and how the Prime Minister of a state, a sovereign state, was liquidated. Whoever thought of him, it was an inadmissible act, and in the future, I will ask that part of the political background that I believe is more credible than what was mentioned in the court is determined. I believe it's a very credible political background because it's usually killed in Serbia because of the government to get one away in that way, and the other in its place to come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53700	Right on the line, my colleague, Radeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53701	Mr. Risticevic, I must say, has given complete information again. It's all true what he said, but there's still something missing. Comrade Arsic, you will agree, because you were also an actor of that time. The overthrow of Zivkovic's government was launched by the SRS parliamentary group. We had a much better Rules of Procedure then, so we had much more time, so we had data reports on the crime of Zoran Zivkovic, Pitic, Vlahovic, Marija Rasete Vukosavljević, Šumarac, Mihajlovic, the mob poodles of Neboja Covic. So, they were all the subject of these reports, and we all had this kind of stunt of evidence, and you and Arsic were one of the participants in that debate. It triggered that avalanche, when we went out with all that data, no one had any more, not even those who voted for that government, no one had the moral right to vote for that group of criminals anymore, because it was a group of criminals. Do you remember only, did the people forget that Maria Rashet Vukosavljevic, whom you imagine the court released, and was known to have paid 5,000 dinars at the airport at the time for coffee spoons, at the very least. So, in every job, they stole, every job they took, and that's why they had to leave the government. Marjana Risticevic, any moment he voted against the government at that time, because indeed no morale could vote for such a bulument to be at the head of the state, as it was during that period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53702	On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Lapčević? Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. My colleague Nikolic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53703	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the proposed legislative solution to the conversion of housing loans will certainly not solve the problems of a large number of citizens, who are in charge of the Swiss francs. The proposal envisions the conversion of loans to the euro instead of to dinars, which is certainly not a good solution, as no one guarantees the course of the euro. This law represents a satisfactory solution only for banks and not for credit users. Serbia's Supreme Cassation Court has considered the issue of housing loans indexed in Swiss francs and has declared indexing invalid unless the bank has provided evidence that it is in debt in the currency, for the payment of the appropriations. This means that banks should convert loans into dinars, since in their contracts they are instructed to lend loans to dinars. Lex specialis predicts the opposite of the position of the Supreme Cassation Court, to make a conversion to the euro and thus reduce the amount obtained by conversion, the amount of the principal on the day of conversion increased by the amount of the maturity rather than charged, the regular interest on the day of conversion, by 38%. Such a legal solution is to legalise the robbery of Serbian citizens and attempt to abolise banks of criminal responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53704	National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Comrade Mircic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53705	We just want to, using the institution of the amendments, warn the public that at first sight the great injustice that has been done to the citizens of Serbia is not resolved in a way that is in line with the Constitution and the law. Here's the simplest thing about the next one. Banks commercially use green methods. How? So, in this particular case, those in charge of credit in Swiss francs are victims of such a policy, green policy in the banking system, and you have to agree that such a system of bank functioning, including individuals, lies on a general condemnation not only in Serbia, but throughout Europe. In the EU, there is also a fight against this kind of business of commercial banks. And we now praise here that the Government has made a final effort to help the citizens in charge of the Swiss francs by broadcasting bonds, and in some ways, they're abolized, in part, by the banks. In this section concerning the suspension of court proceedings, the government intervened by making an even greater injustice more wrong for the people in charge of the Swiss francs. How? By referring only to those currently in credit relations with banks. What about those people who lost their property? What should the Serbian government do with those already seized by the perpetrators, who were on the same basis in charge? That's where the government has a role to play - until the review, everything has to return to its original state. And the government says simply -- we don't care about that, and it gets involved in something brought by the Supreme Casation Court. The Supreme Cassation Court made a decision where it made it clear that the operations of banks, the functioning of banks on these loans were not in line with the law and must return to the frameworks of the law. There is a clear role of both the People's Bank and the clear role of the executive body of government, called the Serbian Government. The Bank should strictly give instructions on how commercial banks should coordinate their work with the Supreme Cassation Court's decision, and the executive authority, in this case, should act on the executioners. Guys, our wound cancer is this system that consists in the functioning of the executioner. People stay out of property overnight. That property is sold for nothing. They run out of apartments, houses, no land, stay for some debts that are even negligible in some cases, but why? Because that's how the system was designed. A system is designed to apply this method of wild capitalism in Serbia. It's a method of force. Commercial banks operating on Serbia's territory will not question their further functioning for a possible government decision through legal provisions, to review all cases that have been in the past few years, and are related to such loans. Why won't the commercial banks? Because in these commercial banks, about nine billion euros has been deposited, which in the name of savings, on other grounds. So which banks will leave, they will leave those who have no interest. Secondly, what is the government's additional power, what is the government's additional argument? That's what everybody knows who spent at least a little time in state authorities. The deposited funds that individual ministries have on bank accounts are an additional argument to talk to these banks, that those in this case, such as the practice in many countries where this happened, that they bear all the costs, not that there is discrimination against the citizens here. That's why we Serbian radicals, and we change our reaction to let you know that what you're doing, it's going to show time, we'd love to be wrong, it's going to show time and events that you may have made a greater mistake and greater injustice than it has ever been. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53706	The 6th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. National MP Marijan Rističević submitted to the 7th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, the Prophet of Rade. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here are your colleagues.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53707	Minister Djordjevic, in the last two hours, we managed to convince Minister Sinisha Malogi, he promised publicly that he would respect Article 105, paragraph 8. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia which obliges the Government to deliver to the National Assembly for discussion and adoption of the final budget account. Now we have to convince you as a reasonable man, a reasonable minister to withdraw this bill on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia because it is bad, because it is harmful. You're not helping anyone with this law. You don't help people who are in charge of Swiss, you don't help people who are in charge of the euro, you don't help people who are in charge of the dinars. You know, we're lucky people say -- well, if these government guys give money out of the budget to Swiss people, they don't give part of my loan in euros. He says, which they don't give me, too, part of the money in the dinars. So, in a completely wrong way, you did something that you might have had a good intention of doing. He now spoke to counterpart Mircic, how will this law solve the problems of the people who were taken from the apartments, to whom the perpetrators sold the apartments, who still have obligations to the banks, who remained on the streets? How are you going to help people who suffer from stress, some unfortunately die? So he produced a lot of bad laws that allowed that indexing in Swiss francs. But you can't solve the problem by one part of the people being satisfied with this law, and when they take everything and add it together, they'll see that nobody's actually satisfied. Each contract was to be analysed individually and seen. The man took 50,000 Swiss francs of credit, actually got a loan in dinars, in dinars paid off his apartment. In the meantime, he paid 70 grand instead. Then he draws a fine line and says – gentlemen from the bank, enough for you, this man no longer owes you anything. Chuck, banks probably owe people who regularly settled their credit obligations. But it all requires serious work, first through one serious system law, and then, of course, individually. I don't see why the state is afraid to talk to banks like that. What's scary is if some of these banks, which usually yell at the skin and people and businesses in Serbia, and profits and extra profits are in their own countries, do not pay taxes here and what someone is afraid to tell such bankers – do you want to work under these conditions or do you not? If you won't, thank you so much, there's someone who will. A colleague said he mentioned a Chinese bank. We look forward to such banks, convinced that they will have a more correct and business relationship with the population in Serbia and with the economy of course. The state must be state to both people and banks, but to the people more. You have to understand that, and this isn't any demagogy, this is a simple SRS position, our political commitment, our programming position. Between the arrogant bankers and the executioners on one side and the hungry people on the other side, we will always side with the people. This has to be done by the state. The state can't, the state can't judge. It's a shame if we go to this bank. What's the harm if whoever wants the bank goes away? It is a shame that you are taking money from the budget in this way and that you may not be aware yet, but it will also come to you, in fact you are creating people's dissatisfaction and the whole of Serbia has had an understanding of these people who are in charge of the Swiss. I never heard anyone say before this bill, and who was to blame and what they were in debt. When you've offered a law like this, it's a hell of a story. So you've made a difference between the people who are in charge of the Swiss and those who are in charge of the euro and the dinars. Instead of passing the law that absolutely everyone in Serbia can be in charge of the country only in dinars, because the dinars all received for each loan no matter how indexed. Someone here said that after this law, many will experience relief. Yeah, you'll make the budget easier, that's the only relief.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53708	The word has a minister, Mr. Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53709	Thank you. I'll try to answer your question. I am fully aware of the fact that you can always show something good in some other way, and the good thing that we do for citizens of Serbia who have found themselves in such an awkward situation, in which the state of Serbia today can help, of course we can show in a different way. The event starts a long time ago, and you just said in your presentation or Mrs. Jovanovic, when the state allowed people to be in debt in Swiss francs. I'm talking about an earlier government that had no responsibility to its citizens or had some other reason why it allowed people to be in debt without any restrictions and without any warning that it was potentially harmful or that it was a great risk. Since 2012, you have a National Bank of Serbia that has taken care of all this. But something when you take over as a commitment and something that's done at some point, you can't undo it so easily, you can't go back and say that there's a law going on at the time, now someone else is. You simply have to correct something that someone has done to some citizens and be responsible enough for other citizens, to be responsible for the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and yet you have the desire and the will to help these citizens. Now we come to a situation that you today have people to whom the state of Serbia can help. We can make a parallel with some other things where you can always say that we're sometimes helping someone or today, and on the same basis someone five or six years ago had a problem and that the problem couldn't be solved, the state then didn't help him and that you're making a parallel with it and you're saying that, well, we've made a discrimination against some who had the same event five or six years ago. The state can do it now. The state is responsible today. The government of the Republic of Serbia is today responsible and the government of the Republic of Serbia wants to help all citizens wherever possible and wherever there is no impact on the budget of the Republic of Serbia and other citizens of the Republic of Serbia. In this case, this is a solution that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has done, and I think in agreement with these people, what was possible for them at this point and what was good. That's 100 percent more than anyone's ever done before. Not 90%, but 100% more. This government, in addition to its will, wanted to do so and that's the difference between this government and all the previous governments.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53710	Thank you, Minister. The Right to Replica has the Faith of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53711	Now I have to explain one specific example. When the first advancers were in the campaign before they won power, Aleksandar Vukic led the campaign and won the election on promises that as soon as the advances came to power, they would abolish all agreements that Borko Stefanovic concluded in Brussels, that they would abolish administrative crossings. I am now saying what Borko Stefanovic has done, that he will abolish the Cyprus ID cards in Kosovo and Metohija, that they will abolish their judicial authorities, so-called. the self-proclaimed countries of Kosovo, that they will abolish their Supreme Court, etc. And what happened? The same day he sat in power he said - and, we must be a responsible state, we cannot cut with scissors what the previous government did, we must respect the continuity of the government, which is simply amazing and the consequence of that continuity are the harmful Brussels agreements that have been signed. Now you're telling us, which is why I brought this up, you're talking about some predecessors doing something wrong again, so it took you seven years to come up with a smarter solution. That's not true, Minister Djordjevic. It's undeniable that they've done a lot of bad things before you. Here, I admit, they were worse than you, but you had to, I just said that to Sinisha Mali, there's no government rock trial, so the lawyers say, seven years ago, but 100 days. You were long, long ago, 100 days ago and only in those 100 days you were right, and that applies to all governments, only in those 100 days you had the right to explain to the people what evil and torment you found and what your steps were to overcome and to get rid of it and to solve it one by one, and not for seven years we didn't know what we were going to do with these "Switzerlands" and then they decided to strike and then Vukic decided to go there and then he said to them, we'll sort it out. Imagine, he says the exact day when the Supreme Cassation Court will make a decision, no one will talk about it. That's terrible. It's absolutely inadmissible. You are now saying, instead of really accepting our serious arguments and we want to participate if you withdraw this bill and propose a good, serious system law, we want to participate in amendments and committees and help solve this problem, Minister Djordjevic, permanently. Believe me, you haven't solved the problem. You've only deepened it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53712	Thank you, colleague Radeta. Labour Minister Zoran Djordjevic spoke. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53713	Let's start with Kosovo and a solution to that. This government didn't mumble and you know that we're talking to our people downstairs and confirming it is that 99% of them vote for Alexander Vukic. That means he has support for everything he does. He wasn't hiding behind them, and that just clearly says that there were no false promises, but that we would solve all things together, together with them who are the hardest down there, and we would solve them and in the future, and we wouldn't give up in the future. As far as the Cassation Court is concerned, well, the Cassation Court itself announces when it will bring its verdict, you don't need to be a psychic so you can tell when it will be, so now you suddenly know when it will pass the Cassation Court's ruling. The cassation court has announced when they will, and if you inform yourself enough, then you know when there will be a verdict. When it comes to goodwill and desire to help someone, and in this case we're talking about people in charge of Swiss francs, it's not easy. This thing didn't come up seven years ago, so the president of the state showed up and solved it. You yourself know that this problem exists, that the problem was rolling, that the problem was piling up and that people didn't know how to solve it. This government has solved the problem. The problem has been solved by giving you MPs a proposal on how and how we can handle it today. Was it somewhere in the past when it happened, and we were just talking about it, could it have been done differently? I'm sure it is. With the things we found in 2012 and 2014, with the cross-section going on in our country at the time, we were the only ones who could go bankrupt with what we got from these predecessors, not solving the Swiss problem. Because we could all be a collateral executioner together and we could all go as a state to be executed by them. It was the reality of Serbia in 2014. You can't solve things like that by saying yes, we'll figure it out, here we go. From where? Who should we give it to? Who do we promise and who do we take? We can't, the budget isn't a bag from which we have unlimited resources, so we can give it somewhere. We have to create some value, we have to have extra values and think about what we're going to do with that value, whether we're going to get the Swiss francs back, or we're going to invest in another thing. In this case, the state said that in addition to investing in infrastructure, besides investing in other things, in addition to increasing pensions, salaries and everything else, we can also set aside for Swiss francs and thus help this group of citizens get out of trouble. In that case, we haven't paid off everything. Remember that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has been responsible for everyone, and by respecting these banks that you are criticising today. It's an inherited thing from the past, and we have to deal with it to solve the problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53714	Thank you, Minister. The word is Veroljub Arsic and Verica Radeta. Here you go. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's not exactly how it wants to be presented. First, citizens who have raised loans in the Swiss franc and citizens who have raised loans in euro will not return the same amount of credit. More will be returned to those who took loans in the Swiss franc, despite this law. So there's no need to be dissatisfaction with other citizens. So, it'll still bring back more of those who took out credit in Swiss francs, despite the application of this law. So that's the first thing to clear up. There have been some interesting discussions here that need to be lifted from the exchange clause. I don't agree with the foreign exchange clause. Whether it should be applied or not, I also don't think it should be, but some National Bank has earlier taken the view that it's legal. Because it was some National Bank that took the view that it was legal at the time, remember which and what financial and speculative malfeasances were between the National Bank and certain cartels led by Miskovic, etc., so we kept having a weakness of the national currency, where again one part of the extraprofit ended in private pockets, for example at the Duke of Meridian of the Bank of Bozidar Djelic, former minister of the former regime, from the Democratic Party. So, one part of the profit ended with him, and the other part of some others, foreign exchange reserves were sold. Now let's look at what would happen if we said the exchange clause was illegal and nothing. That's what we say and we think we've solved everyone's problem, we think we've solved problems and citizens and businesses at one point. That sounds very nice, I just have to ask someone - and whose money is in the bank's deposits, is only the investor of these banks and owners, or is there money of our citizens or is there money of our economy and does the state guarantee for the stakes of up to 50,000 euros? It guarantees the state's stakes of up to 50,000 euros, so we can clear this up right now. So, if we were to put something out of force so easily, we'd still be hitting some new law. I ask the question – then who will compensate for the damage to the citizens and the businesses because the banks where they receive their wages are bankrupt? They can't pay their savings anymore, they can't even pay their foreign savings. Who's gonna pay for that? Well, country. Again, who's filling that budget? Well, you're the same citizen. Don't send political messages so easily. It's just a small one, to say the simulation, what it looks like when you want overnight, without looking at all the consequences, something to do. This law has measured everything positive and all negative. Does he solve all the problems? Of course he can't. Will it remove all the consequences? He can't do that either, but he's going to ease them. One more thing, it is not true that the President of the Republic went to the citizens when the Supreme Court's position was announced. He didn't even announce it, he went to the citizens to talk to them, the president's authority was enough to finally take one position. The Supreme Court has reached a position, has not made a decision. So now we can guess, and maybe this Supreme Court of Cassation has made a point just because the president's authority was such as to talk to the citizens who were in front of that same court. What the hell are you talking about, Arsic? Don't, don't, don't, don't lose your temper. Well, the President didn't go to the Supreme Cassation Court, he went to the citizens who were strikein' hunger outside the Supreme Court. What bothers you so much? (Miss Radeta: Who's the problem?) I asked the Supreme Court to give its position on the matter, so is that a problem? He didn't say defined it like this, or decided it like this, he said give it anyway, but give it already. Now, what we're saying is, during other authorities, there was no interest in the President of the Republic's living citizens, as Boris Tadic did before, that's the second part of the story. That's why he's the former regime. But I'd like someone to finally propose that some model solution, anything, to let go of the populist stories, to undo it, to transfer it to dinars, etc., and always to ask the question of who's going to pay for the damage. Someone says banks. The banks were giving, according to the laws in force then, so the state has to deprive them. The only minor danger is that courts in individual court proceedings dispute contracts that the banks have concluded with the clients, but these are procedures that someone has to carry out, so the state can't sue banks, the client has to. With all the problems and uncertainty that this dispute brings him, you have to tell him how much he's guaranteed success, no one can, can just say you have a better chance of success or less, but to guarantee him you can't. It's all trouble. Let's not even question the financial sector, I just said, come on, investors are gonna lose money, and what about the money that belongs to our citizens in those same banks. Well, because due to the irresponsible leadership of the former regime, this Duke of Meridian Bank, Bojan Pajtic, and everyone else around Agrobanka 400m euros, the state had to pay the debts of that bank, so we had to pay around the Vojvodina Development Bank 600m euros, a billion euros were stolen by the banks, but because these banks had permission to work in the Republic of Serbia, or the National Bank. The state had to vouch for the stakes and pay off the stakes, so now we're gonna talk like this. No, we're going to bring all the foreign exchange contracts, we don't care what happens to the banks, and as a consequence, we're going to have citizens who are going to lose the money they deposited with these banks, so the state is going to pay them. Come on, let's get things right. So, finish your proverbs till the end, don't say everything, but at least say everything. Not half. So, not half. So it's not easy to make a law that will solve this problem. This law only mitigates the consequences of an irresponsible policy run by the then National Bank, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and Boris Tadic as president of the Republic of Serbia, an irresponsible policy. Even then, they could say as they said in 2011 when it was all over and already late, we prohibit loans indexed in the Swiss franc due to excessive risk. That's what they could say in 2007 or 2008. Well, what aren't they? Rather, they reduced the fees of the National Corporation for the Insurance of Residential Credits for Loans indexed in francs to make them even cheaper and even more citizens to enter the trap. Now, I really wish that we could because we had one bad legal regulation to say this legislation, to say this legislation is not valid, and when it was applied, it's impossible, it's impossible without consequences for the state. And that's why they're inherited problems. I don't know if a member of the government has the right to talk about what his predecessors were like. I don't want to go into it, but as an MP who supports the government of the Republic of Serbia, I will always talk about what the former regime has done to our citizens, always, whenever I get an opportunity, for all their crimes against their own citizens, by their jobs, by their standard of living. Whenever I get a chance to never see them again in power. That no one can ever be fooled again. That they can never promise one another and do another. And as long as it's been since they lost power, as long as they want to come back and participate in Serbia's political life, I'm going to say what thieves, bastards and bastards were and those who are now trying to push these kids against the police, fight the police because those 18, 19-year-old kids don't know what they were like when they ruled seven years ago.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53717	Five things. First of all, I don't know which former Arsic regime he means, does he mean the government of Ivica Dacic or the Government of Alexander Vukic? Secondly, I'm sorry, Arsic, for making you admit publicly that the Wolf had an influence on the court's decisions by his authority. You're gonna get a serious bug from Wolfie. Next, he says, give us a suggestion. Well, you're the government, you have to propose. We should criticise you, accept or not accept you. You're the government. That's what we hear regularly at conferences, you tell me, you answer me. No, brother, but tell me, answer you, you took responsibility. Thirdly, you have admitted that you are actually officials of the previous regime. Here's why. Among other things, you won't prosecute them, and you're always talking about their crime that he has so much. You will not eliminate the perpetrators who are the evils of this society. Through the Brussels agreements, you have legalized all agreements and agreements between Borko Stefanovic. You will not lift the position of the National Bank on the ban on foreign currency credit conversion. So you're not going to do any of that. So you're the mere officers of that previous government. You say, "You have done, you have worked, you have worked hard, and you will not solve everything by this law, but you will solve something, you will not solve anything." What have you achieved? You've turned Swiss loans into the euro. What if some miracle happens with the euro? You weren't hoping, or hoping, then some of them weren't even hoping it would happen with the Swiss, so it happened. Who knows how long Jorgenka's gonna hold this artificial course of dinars which, by the way, you weren't when I said, she said it, the strongest on the globe, and the wider one. It wasn't our dinar, though, but it doesn't matter, it happens. So, what you said was that, I don't know, 99% of Serbs vote in Kosovo and Metohija for Alexander Vukic. You let go of what happened in the previous elections, get ready for the next one, and the votes from Kosovo and Metohija in the future don't count in Vranje, count them where the elections are held. If it's safe to be in the polls all day, to come and vote, then I guess it's safe for you to vote there and count. And don't pay for the next campaign, ask for capillaries, don't promise these half a million people who are on time to get a job permanently. There's more, but it's not a topic. Now it's the subject of the so-called law. Swiss. Once again, Mr. Djordjevic, withdraw this law and give us a serious system proposal, and we will discuss it and help you solve the problem. We want to help you, we want to help you because of the people.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53718	Thank you, colleague Radeta. The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53719	Mr. Arsic, when he mentioned Alexander Vukic, I will be very specific, he said it was a man with the highest political authority. So that's exactly what Mr. Arsic said and asked precisely, what bothers someone. Here, we still haven't received an answer to that, but we see further evidence that someone is bothering someone, through the words of Mr. Arsic or through the fact that Alexander Vukic is the man with the greatest political authority, and who he has said, we will find a solution. It is not true that this solution comes down to the conversion into the euro, and that is that, both the end and the point. Absolutely not. The question was just asked, who is this going to be worth it to, to whom this is going to mean, and even, even if it's not going to be worth it to anyone, no one is going to want this. So it's not true. It will directly mean to those people who have been sued in the meantime, and they are in bad litigation, those people who, without this law, have no way of being elegantly useful and favourable to them, come out of these lawsuits. This is how they got that solution. You know who else? Those who are one step away from being left without apartments, who are one step ahead of facing those perpetrators you're talking about. This law gives them the solution not to come to that end. If you're worried about the perpetrator's question, here's the answer. You know who else, the ones where the principal will be reduced significantly. You have a variety of media analysis of cases, so if someone made it to a debt of 117,000 and paid 115,000, and now he owes another 95,000, with this law, it will be reduced by 36,000. What do you think, he wants to accept? They will, they will. Who's talking about this? It's the representatives of those associations who represent them. So all you have to do is have an elemental interest in the work you do, so you know all this. Kosovo and Metohija, answered Mr. Minister, but if you did not understand, 99% of the votes are evidence that our people at KIM, believe, not that, as someone here dared to claim that Alexander Vukic is not telling them the truth, no, these people think, stand by the name and last name that Alexander Vukic was the only one telling them the truth always, the only one to this extent, that today alone they want to hear about him, just to talk to him, just trust him and vote for him alone. More people with KIM were at that fantastic rally on Friday, when 150,000 people came here to show that they believed in results, and in the vision, the perspective that lies ahead of this country thanks to Alexander Vukic, 150,000 in total, and among them more people from KIM, than the total of those unfortunates who managed to seduce Dilas with all Jeremic and Obradovic, there were seven days earlier, more people from KIM, the representatives of our country's countrymen were here on Friday, than there were total people from all over the country, abroad, who came from where he came from, I will not go in there to say hello to Gilas, who did not finally get the courage to turn to them and to look them in the eyes. That's proof of who the citizens trust. When the next elections come, we will remember the previous ones, but on this next one, no matter where we count the votes, will be on election committees, will be in RIK and your representatives, will testify as every previous time that the result on the paper is recorded, exactly the result that's been counted. Now here's what the latest research tells you, they say 50% plus for Alexander Vukic, for the SNS, and even for the governments that we form, even some would now add, and what's more. After these joint analyses of what we've done and these joint plans that we've established in front of 150,000 people the other day, and that support is even bigger than it's ever been. (Faith Radeta: Ha, ha, ha.) There were 52, 53% in the last studies, I apologize, last one. Do you know what today is? Today is 57%, 58% of Serbia's citizens' support for Alexander Vukic, and your "ha, ha, ha", add your finger to the forehead and ask yourself where we are in these analyses, where will we be in these elections or after that election?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53720	Thank you, Dr. Orlic. The word is made by Minister Zoran Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53721	I would just add to Mr. Orlic's exposure that there were more people with KIM, regardless of what they were forbidden to come and what the vast majority of them couldn't come to, there were more of them again, than there were when Gilas, Jeremic at the rally. I see from your exposure that you're suggesting that, given that you've limited us to everything, we still have to stay out of the election, so that it seems like the only way to win, but I have bad news, we're going to go to the polls and we're going to win the election when they're with the great majority and we're going to break all the records again, as we've broken, because most people can... What a great thought! I understand from your presentation, since you've restricted us with everything, don't do this, don't do that, don't go to the election yet, so you can win. Bad news for you, we're going to go to the election and we're going to beat you in the election, but not that we're going to beat you with a little difference, but with a lot bigger than you expect. (Milorad Mircic: Minister, it's called reduction. ) As for Swiss francs and solutions, we offer solutions to the people, we talk to the people, and we do not lie to the people. That's what the people can appreciate, and that's what the voices of the people show when the elections are. It's the same for the Swiss. I invite you to tell the people your solution. We, unlike all previous governments, went out with our solution, had this courage and helped these people, and we talked to these people about what suits them. We didn't come up with a solution without them knowing about it, so now we're here discussing something that they may not be for. They're for this solution. This solution is the solution that is tailored to those citizens who have a problem today. That's how you solve problems. You say your solution, and we'll see who gets better at the election.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53722	Thank you, Minister. I apologize to my colleague, Radetti. He'll have a word right after the break. We've already broken through time, so in accordance with Article 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly... And now I want a word. I'll give it to you, it's no problem, but right now I have to take a break, we've already broken through a few minutes. I beg you to understand, you know I always go out on a date and let go of time. Don't be angry, please. There will be a minister. I'm asking for a little understanding. [[Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: Where does it say that the break is at 14.00?)]] We're due for a meeting. We're already late. In accordance with Article 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I set a break of one hour. We'll continue at 15.00 hours. Thank you. [[after breaks]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue to work further. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 8th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) colleague Jovanovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53724	The latest news is that while this session is under way, members will be gathered around the "Effectiva" group, they say, are bound by chains at the Supreme Cassation Court's premises because they are dissatisfied. Unsatisfactory for the reasons they think, and we are talking about today, that the Supreme Cassation Court, deciding before a certain number of days, did not properly interpret it when it comes to the termination of the apartment credits indexed in Swiss francs and think that it is an injustice, as well as the fact that the question is being asked what will happen to all those people who have already paid off those loans or who have previously made the conversion? Since we always have to point out that there's not enough time, but, I'll, for that, take a really much bigger observation, to point out a few things. There is a law on bond relations that is in force, here are our legal experts, and Vjerica and Jojic and other MPs who are lawyers and know that he has not changed since 1978, I have found this data. The law in its Article 394 imperatively prescribes the principle of monetary minimalism, i.e. nominalism, which would fit into what the Serbian Radical Party is looking for, and that is to say, this member of the law to which we have submitted the amendment, to make the conversion, but to the dinars. This fear, above all, you, Mr Arsic, but also your other colleagues, that Serbia will suffer financial and monetary consequences, that these banks in international courts will sue Serbia, not drink water, for the simple reason that the state should really go through the institutions, these are primarily the National Bank, the Ministry, to talk to them, but in a different way, and to tell them that they here in Serbia, of which for years, have not paid taxes, such as value added tax, of the interest they give for other loans. Then, you have the cost of processing credits, you have various enquiries of these banks that they don't pay at all as other legal entities, businesses, entrepreneurs, etc. And now we need to fear them and protect them? On the other hand, those who have achieved it is realistic and it is all verifiable, through this payment plan that these martyrs took in the Swiss francs, first and foremost, this exchange clause is controversial, let alone now convert it into euro. Because we understand, and in the end it should be a decision, that in case someone negotiates with the bank wants to make that kind of conversion in dinars. Because our citizens are getting paid in dinars. In the end, you saw how it happened in Russia, when they're the same through other speculative jobs, this is a classic monetary speculation of indexing in Swiss francs, planted on people. Yes, you say, that was better for them at that point. But a simple man told by the minister, told by the governor of the National Bank at the time – that's great, take it, he's taken it. In the end, the colleagues of the radicals know that, and I've been thinking about it, even the current governor talked me into it, Jorgenka Tabaković – it's great for you, take credit in Swiss. Thank God, I had so much sense not to listen to her, and I don't do it, at the last minute, here, my fiancée is my witness. So, you can watch it all one way or the other. Now you'll have those people on the street who don't care about this law because it's bad and it's not a system solution.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53725	The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The word of the Messenger of the people is Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53726	I call on the amendment not to be accepted, and I can't help but notice that the amendment is not reasoned with us, perhaps for an interesting reason why he is the Proposer of the Democratic Party? We had already had in the morning part of the session it seems to me that the reading of an amendment proposed by MPs Vuk Jeremic, which is also interesting, and Boris Tadic, they share a group, they may have had a fight and disintegrated in the meantime, as these "dwarfs" were famously disintegrated this morning, so there are no more, I don't know, but that they have submitted the amendment – they have. Here, now I see the amendment of the Democratic Party, so I have to ask myself out loud -- that maybe it's not some boycott of some kind? I don't know what else to represent and what else is it supposed to mean? They could at least show up and be polite to tell us what word the amendment promoters, when they've already filed the paper, to explain their ideas or their motivation to boycott their own boycott here. Of course, it's a fake boycott, we know that here. Because as long as they are boycotting, they are really charging their troubles from the National Assembly. In particular, MPs of the Democratic Party, some of them, believe it or not today, signed up there in that record paper that they were present at the National Assembly, that they came to the session, and I haven't seen one since this morning in this room. However, they signed up neatly to raise travel costs. At least one of those great workers, who took this superhuman effort to lift a pen and write down his esteemed name and last name to charge him, to enter this hall and to, say, explain this amendment to us. Or someone else. Maybe the amendment to that fake Vlah Vukadinovic, who also filed an amendment? Or this previous one, which was put together by representatives of Vuk Jeremic and Boris Tadic? I don't know why they didn't do that, when they already signed up, with the intention of charging that effort? If it's hard for them, they don't have to personally, here, one of the representatives of the Dwri can. And they signed up to come to the session, believe it or not. I didn't see any of them again. One of those who are still accompanied by this fascist Obradovic, also signed up, I checked it out earlier. He could have helped his colleagues, one, the other, the third, the fifth, I don't know, to help the Lord God explain to them what they were doing. But he's not in the O.R. either, and so is he. Where are they, what are they doing, we're wondering? I, meanwhile, only noticed Bosko Obradovic that he appeared for a moment in front of reporters, to confirm information that Dvori no longer exists in the National Assembly. So they broke up in the parades. They are no longer on the list of registered parliamentary groups. But, Obradovic, God cheered him up, so with a smile from ear to ear says -- it doesn't matter, we're going to make up our own parallel parliament in the woods in front of the building, so we're going to form our own parliamentary groups, where there are no rules and where we, so, kids, we're going to make up our parliaments, themes, and even non-existent parliamentary groups, we're going to form again. I wish him luck, both to him and to these great workers from the yellow company of the Democratic Party d.o.o. and to those bought by Dragan Gilas, we talked about it today, and maybe he didn't buy it, maybe with that party, those environmentalists, the green ones, he got it? Today, it seems to me that an analyst commented on it and did very well, when he bought the party, maybe he also got some MPs gratis along with the party? You know, with a used car, sometimes you get winter rubber gratis, though, also used. So we all wish them all the happiness of this world. While they're out there having fun in the woods, while the kids are playing, at least be so honest, they don't take real, not imaginary wages, here, in this House, if they can't stand it. Let them not charge the travel expenses of the true, not the fabricated, of this people's congregation, unless they bear it either. Let them not speak here for the cobwebs, nor for the foreign exchange logs, as they continue to travel neatly in the white world whenever they seize an opportunity. At the very end, in particular Bosko Obradovic, the small Ljotic and fascist, must return the fine funds received from this National Assembly, not his fictional ones in a forest there, to the Belgrade apartment, which this people pay him. For what? To spread a smile from ear to ear, to come out to the press, a little insult by Alexander Vukic, a little SNS, and then with the other kids, in that woods across the street, to make sure that the people are having fun while the money's on the bill just lying there. If Nogo and Radojcic left them, as they say, for crime, I'm sure they knew very well what they were thinking and why they said it. It's so greedy out there, so insecure, that I don't believe anything but crime could be the reason. As for these amendments, I don't know, the moment they turn to us with a desire to explain their high-minded ideas, I suggest we talk about them a little deeper, in the meantime, that we don't support these things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53727	Thank you. The 9th amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damnjanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to Article 11 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the People's Messenger is the Prophet of the Prophet of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53728	This article 11 is, in fact, the cost of conversion, and it is a key member, which is why we are asking that the Government of the Republic of Serbia withdraw this proposal and propose a serious comprehensive proposal to the MPs in order to really solve these problems once and for all. You've heard before that a group of these people have already appeared who have also been in charge of the Swiss francs, who are threatening to bind themselves with chains or I don't know what. So, I can't solve problems with ad hoc, and that's what we've been telling you for well-intentioned days. The laws, or government must propose comprehensive laws. You know why certain laws are codified in serious countries, primarily from the civil area and criminal justice, of course? Because it prevents an act that is not already covered by the law from happening, and that is the right legal certainty. We now in the state of Serbia, no one knows, knows what is written under what law, what is foreseen as this or that act, but something that is not there happens, and then we go with some actions, some others go, we don't go, with some actions to collect signatures, we no longer know who proposes the laws. Of course, it's all regulated and we don't mind and that with a number of signatures, laws can be proposed and that every MP proposes laws, but it is essential to function to divide the power that the Government of the Republic of Serbia proposes laws, to discuss them in the National Assembly and to vote in the National Assembly on these laws. We as an opposition political party do not vote in favour of government proposals, but, believe me, if you were to fascinate us with some proposal, if we were to say -- bravo, this is really a bill that solves all the problems in this area, we would vote for it, because we are MPs and what we want to do in the interests of the people. This law, Colloquially speaking, about the Swiss, not to speak the full name, is not the solution for the largest number of people in charge of the Swiss francs. It's not a solution, and you haven't convinced us, and you have no arguments to convince us that we're wrong. None of you will talk about what with hundreds of people who have lost apartments for which they have already paid the banks between 50 and 80,000 euros. Who's going to make up for these people's damage? Others without an apartment, lost at the same time without funds for which they are approximately costing those apartments. You haven't gone to solve a major problem and I wonder, I wonder – how many days will we have changes or additions or alterations or additions to this Lex specialis? What are you going to do with these men who bind themselves with chains in the Supreme Cassation Court? Are you going to tell them – we don't care, we don't care, we don't have to tie up, or you'll count how many people it is, how many families it is, and then you'll judge whether to help them or leave them, I won't say it doesn't help them, but simply leave them to do whatever they want? It's an unserious attitude of the state towards the people. When I say the same thing when we say "people" we never think of 17,000, 5,000, this many or so people, we think of every citizen of the Republic of Serbia. The government through its proposals, and by adopting these proposals, the Assembly must make sure that the laws are such that they satisfy the interests of the largest number of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. You know, people who people will always find someone unsatisfactory for a personal reason, for one reason or another, but when you solve a problem essentially, then it can't have any negative connotations. The problem is that you have shown your relationship with solving this problem in the course of that debate in principle and today. So MPs of the ruling majority can count, there are no more than 20. So, so much for how interested you are in solving problems. Minister Djordjevic is here, taking part in the debate, but this is still a narrow specialty, the portfolio of Minister Sinisha Mali. He was there, I'm not saying he wasn't, but the minister can't have much more to do than work in the National Assembly and exchange arguments with the MPs. The argument that this law is good is not in it, you will see when we go to the elections where you will be, where we will be. That's not an argument. We're not just doing this to be some statistical number in these installed polls of yours. No, we work to help as many citizens of Serbia as possible, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. You know, they voted for us and they're going to vote in an even greater number of Serbian voters, vote for you, it's not a dispute, but you can't judge now those who strike if we pass the law, then they and their families will vote for us, so let's do it. That's not how you handle it. I ask you, Minister, did you find out in the meantime how you're going to help these men in charge of the Swiss, who are bound by chains, and how you're going to help people who have lost their apartments and without tens of thousands of euros? You are here predicting in article 11, whose proposal we are proposing to delete that of these costs of government conversion from the budget, they will pay 15% of the amount of someone who will be calculated here, etc. You are in this way really bringing the citizens of Serbia, the people of the Republic of Serbia into a situation to start against each other to react. You know, something like that was when Mladjan Dinkic shut down our state banks. Then, mostly, women are employed in banks, and they were then protesting against Mladjan Dinkic and those truly terrible decisions to shut down our banks by nothing, so that he could bring us these vegetables that are now tearing the skin off the people's backs. Then these women who were 20-30 years old working in banks, winter was, they were coming out before their banks to protest and most of them were dressed in pumpkins, winter was. What's so terrible about someone doing 20 or 30 years, that they could afford to buy a coat? What were the media doing back then? "Bundish against power," so they turned the people to cheer for Dinkic and for shutting down our banks, for my God, what there is to protest some woman who has a coat. This is how you banalize solving this problem. Believe me, we don't banalize when we say, you ministers don't walk among the people except at party meetings, which is not an opinion and attitude, that's clear to you, but believe me, not only do people say – you want to tell the Assembly to pay me back, I took a loan in euros, let the state pay me 15%. It goes to the point where people say -- I took 3,000 euros, 5,000 euros of consumer credit in dinars, ask the minister there if he will pay us back 15%. So, you have led this law to the fact that people no longer have solidarity with each other, but the opposite of that, it says – what do I care, the state will pay you 15% of that loan. You haven't solved the problem. Minister Djordjevic, consult with the Prime Minister, Minister Sinish Mali, on behalf of the Government, withdraw this proposal, we are ready to discuss a new proposal from next week, but to really include everything with this proposal, and not just some, I have no idea how they've been chosen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53729	The word has Minister Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53730	First, let me tell you that and how I go among the people, and how I move, and how well I know what their demands are, what their problems are, because that's the only way to help the people, to be among them and to hear their problems. As far as the law is concerned, and as far as the measure the Government of the Republic of Serbia is concerned, we have already talked about it. With the best intention of solving something, we are also taking action and working in the interest of our citizens, all those who have problems. Our job is to help them. This is a way to help those people who came across this problem. Will they be dissatisfied? There will always be those who will be dissatisfied, but I expect you to make your concrete proposal. We're just hearing about saying that you need to withdraw the proposal, that you have a proposal, and we haven't heard the proposal yet, as we haven't heard the proposal from this other side that's not here today. And they say they have a solution to that problem, but we can't hear that solution to those problems. After all, they were in power, they led to it, and they didn't find it appropriate even to appear to turn around and say what their proposal is, which speaks more of them. We are here today to discuss how and how to help these people. This is one of the suggestions to help them. And what essentially makes a difference, is that, we didn't bring it to some office that they weren't advised, that they were for. They were both there, and how they talked to us, and how they said what they needed. This is a solution they agreed with. It's not true that they're not included in those who've been taken away from something. Those who remained in Switzerland, besides being executed, will also be reduced in debt. So we literally watched everyone go out to meet. I say once again, and I underline, they were for this solution and this solution is a compromise of three sides -- states, citizens and banks.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53731	Right on the line, my colleague, Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53732	I don't know, it's like you're not listening to us, Minister Djordjevic, even today, and you were the day the discussion was held in principle. First, the president of our parliamentary group, Vojislav Seselj, has made our views very precise. We had less time, so we also talked about it, and very specifically we said how this problem could be solved. So, first, this second position of this member, whose erasure I propose, should say that these 15%, as well as this rest, will be paid by banks, not by the Republic of Serbia, rather than by the budget of the Republic of Serbia. You, the devil of the cross, as the people say, are running away from a critical conversation with banks. You say you talked to banks, you talk to people. How many people, all of them? You haven't talked to everyone, but that's neither the point nor the way the government works. You should notice the problem and you should suggest it. You're saying we didn't make a concrete proposal. We did. We said -- bring a new bill, no more conversions, but only loans in dinars, no government has any obligation to repay any loans, but banks have to do it, banks have to make extra profits to secure those funds, because they get extra profits, and they don't pay the state tax. Banks make that extra profit from the Serbian state. That all contracts are broken, that one item at a time is analysed, to see how much of the contract is in charge of those Swiss people, so if someone was in charge of 50,000 Swiss people in dinar equivalent then, that's when it counts, and not now, and he has returned the equivalent of 70 thousand, then it's said, well, the bank should have only 2.5% to 3% interest, so let's see, do you owe the bank maybe another 5,000 dinars, or the bank owes you 55,000, which would be a much more common case. There, solutions, Mr. Minister Djordjevic, both legal and economic, in every sense precise, accurate and clear.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53733	Right on line, Minister Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53734	Just to be clear, I thought you were anti-Communism fighters, and you're bringing us back to communism. All you've said is a list of good wishes, and it really does work out for anyone who gets a chance to come up with a solution. You know it yourself, that everything you've listed is simply inapplicable. It is possible in some totalitarianism, in a system where it is possible for you to impose some measures on a private sector bank, all retroactively and to change the laws retroactively, but it's called a completely different name. I think your leader knows, because he's very valuable to all of it, how and in what way it's called, and I think he was a supporter against such regimes. I only owe you one thing I didn't say earlier, and that's about Sinisha Malo. Minister Sinisha Mali is on an official trip with our president in China, where he should sign very important state contracts and that's why he's not here. And I can freely tell you on his behalf that he must be very sorry that he couldn't have been until the end of this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53735	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53736	Article 107. Mr. Arsic, I ask you to warn the members of the government that they are addressing the MPs. Their address must be with respect. They can't lecture here who's in favor of returning communism and who knows, and who doesn't know, whose leader knows this system or whose leader doesn't know. Minister, you've overstepped your powers and ways of acting as members of the government. Don't lecture us radicals and honor us that we want to restore communism. Well, you and your government returned property to those who got it in an illegal way 30, 40, 50 and 60 years ago. Well, where in the world does it have such an example? You did it, your government did it, Minister, and here you can't do to the poor people who were kicked out of their apartments, taken away their property, a few years ago you can't get back, at least to start the trial over, to prove it in court. No, you don't care. It's the easiest, you think you're that powerful. Well, I guess you're aware of the fact that everything is changing in Serbia, including the government. You'll see when you get to the other side how it comes back with interest. Just remember how they were heating up, here, Mr. Risticevic can remind you that Natasa Micic, Gordana Komic and others, how they led the Assembly, how their ministers acted, and now you see how they are, are now running from the end of the street to meet us radicals, to let us know. They think we've forgotten them. We haven't forgotten. They ruined Serbia. Don't act like one, Minister. Take care of your behavior when you're in power. That's when a man should take care of himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53737	Comrade Mircic, you have used your right to the Rules of Procedure under Rule 107 as a replica, so I don't think I have the obligation to answer you. Right on the line, my colleague, Radeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53738	Minister, I've been giving you some free advice this afternoon and teaching, and here I am teaching you. So, totalitarianism, you know how picturesque it looks? When someone says - I'll give you back the loans you're in charge of during someone's thieving power, I'll bring that factory here and that factory, I'll do it, I'll, I'll, I'll, I'll, well, it's totalitarianism, and you recognize the one who owns it. So how do you say it's communist that you can't get to private banks, that the state can't interfere in the work of private banks? And what is the National Bank for, what is the National Bank Act for? Why are they serving the National Bank's orders to those private banks? We keep telling you, talk to those private banks, but you won't, so now you leave the possibility of association to each of us. Which is why you're protecting a particular bank and who's really protecting the bank? Because you will not sit down with them and say to them – our legal system asks you to do so and if you like it, continue to work, if you do not like it, go ahead, go. Is that communism? You're confused, you weren't in class, Minister, I guess. So you're saying it's impossible to apply some law retroactively. Minister, consult the lawyers around you. Retroactivity exists as a constitutional category. It's supposed to be avoided, but you don't, say, avoid it when it comes back from taking away property. You're applying the law that brought the yellows at a time when the MPs, the party you belong to now, were members of the SRS, when we didn't know how many arguments we had convinced the authorities at the time that such a law should not be passed, when we were legal and political and economical and all the possible facts and arguments to convince them and when you swore in the campaign that this law would also be one of the laws that would no longer be applied, and now you're applying it to the extent that it recently took place in the paper that the property was returned to the heirs of some fascist from Novi Sad, either before or somewhere. So, Minister, don't talk to us casually. You're making arguments, because we're talking about arguments, and our main argument is that this bill must be withdrawn from the assembly procedure, and when we talk about changes or some new Lex specialization, we'll just read what you've been saying and remind the public of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53739	National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 11th amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Rističević, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53740	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, unlike Bosko Ljotic, Boška left-handed, who in due time, why Bosko left-handed, I will now explain to you, in time with the male members of the Dvora, and I think women are a little more men, but there only men are visually received there, so they have visually satisfied that form, Bosko Ljotic and his associates swore in the Hilandar monastery, that the great Serb sanctuary, the world's sanctity, that they will not form a party, that they will be a family organisation and that they will never form a party. He swore on the Trinity, at the sanctuary and took 5,000 euros on behalf of the family organisation not to be a party and, of course, lied. He lied to the clergy, and therefore they rightly call him, because of this oath – St. Boščić the left-handed. So this Christmas Ljotić left hand isn't here. I'm committed to his constituents, to his first members... I can even say that certain times were sweet, when they pushed the family first, as some sort of program of theirs, when they were believers, when they were believers who betrayed their faith, their sanctity now. I remember him when he was here taking a hearty stand against foreign banks. I liked that. Is that he wrote it a little bit from that Pernar over there in Croatia, and they're still missing Thompson singing the anthem in those protests and being complete. They have the support of Zagreb. They have the support of Pristina, Tirana, etc., and they bite us like piranhas. So at least that's what they're trying to do, drive foreign investors away, etc. So, he's taking a hearty stand against foreign banks. I have to admit, I liked that, because I think they're cruelly exploiting the locals, but they're walking with those foreign banks. So he walks with them, with Gilas, walks with Jeremic, with Borko Stefanovic, a NIS salesman, etc. He walks with them, right with those who brought foreign banks. He took a hearty stand for domestic banking, and today he walks with those who have shut down domestic banks in order to bring the rest to the side, according to Drpokrat's party, Bojan Pajtic, Goran Jesic and others. He was kind to me in a certain way then. I'm not some Eurofil exaggerated, he's more than a Eurosceptic. He advocated against the EU, St. Bosic's left-handed was against the EU. I thought it was a man of style, that's a man of words, he won't step on it, and today he sits next to the laps of Dragan Gilas, who boasted in Brussels along with Jeremic that they are against Russian influence in the Balkans and in Serbia. So, you're here against the EU, and you're walking with a DS that's exclusive and only in the EU sees a partner, you're here for Russia, you're here for relations with Russia, and you're walking with those who are fighting, proven fighters in the fight against Russian influence. That same Christmas left-handed, remember, he stood up here against the Masons, the secret society. I don't know if the Masons are good or bad, but he attacked the government to have two Masons in the government. I'm saying again, I don't know how bad societies they are, bad people. The masseuse, Marija Janjusevic, sat next to him all the time, a member of the Great Women's Lodge of Serbia, a third-degree master, the President of the Court of Honor of the Great Women's Lodge in Serbia. I didn't even know there were women's lodges, but now I know. This same Bosko Ljotic left-handed woman stood here, as a believer, for Orthodoxism, etc. As a Orthodox, it was nice, but behold, miracles are walking with Borko Stefanovic whose poster in the political campaign was playing guitar next to the burning cross. He walks with those who burn the cross. So how do you trust that man to be honest against foreign banks? I'm in a dilemma. I support what the state, and the state is a community of people, the state is a misery of injustice and misfortune for the people who do it, the state protects people and people should protect the state, the citizens of this country should protect the state and the state should protect the citizens. This is not the first time that the state will protect citizens, but has protected them regarding Agrobanks, the University of Banks, the Vojvodine Development Bank. It's those banks that have been ruined by Gilas and his friends. I agree that the state should help. Mr. Minister, you should help the peasants. So, peasants have large debts, thanks to the laws and regulations of the yellow, former regime's party, the Dropocratic parties that prescribed this mandatory insurance and increased debts to 214 billion. It's incriminating. That's over two billion euros. I ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia to protect these citizens. Since the average age of the farmer is 61 years, these people need to liquidate those debts to retire. Does it matter to you, to the state whether they retire or receive social assistance? Let them retire with dignity, let those 11,000 get their pensions, not social aid. Today, social aid is bigger than a peasant pension. It's a bad message, that it's better to be a social case than a peasant. So I suggest that these debts, if you don't completely write off, write off the interest and only collect 5% of the debt, pay back the dignity of the peasants, pay back that state-of-the-art portion of the people's dignity, and that they can retire peacefully, that they can be treated, because these debts are due to PIO and health insurance. The number of farmers' insurance companies, there are 589 thousand landowners, is down to 94 thousand, which means that nearly 500 thousand are unsecured or due to health insurance, can no longer pay, because when it pays it goes to dubiosis and he has no right to be treated again, then he has to pay medical services and die in a hurry. Often, peasants don't get sick for long. When they stop working and are no longer able to work, they, like from the protest, retreat back there, into the estate and out of the protest die, because they can no longer contribute to their family, to their country. It's time to give the state something back to them. I agree to make a note, to sort of reduce the damage to those who owe the banks to the Swiss. Let us also help farmers, that state-of-the-art part of the people who go through the cabin, run to polling stations to vote for those they think will most protect the state, its field, its plum, its state, its flag. Let's try to narrow these debts down to some normal amount that can be paid. You will receive some money from the Ministry of Finance, and on the other hand you will have new current inflows in PIO insurance and health insurance. That's why I urge us to help all citizens, because they are the community that makes this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53741	Thank you. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Gjorge Vukadinovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53742	I thank the chairman. Dear Minister, I just want to point out something for a little while. First of all, I suggest that this amendment not be accepted. I absolutely agree with the Government's view that the same is rejected for the reasons set out in the reasoning, whose basis is and that the means for implementing this legal solution are already foreseen. Of course, Djordje Vukadinovic instead of doing his job and being in the O.R. today when he has already submitted the amendment, he is finely receiving the parliamentary salary he is using to travel through Serbia and to affirm the Alliance for Serbia. Well, you know what, and in this Alliance for Serbia, there are people who could suggest a solution and who were aware of the problem for a while. After all, he can talk whoever he wants, yet Alexander Vukic and this government headed by Anna Brnabic were the ones who spoke openly about this problem, but the first one also proposed a solution to such a problem. The solution can be great, it can be less good. Any solution can and should be criticised for being even better, but let us not forget that the people who have proposed such amendments, who are not in the room today, are persistently trying to boycott, to this extent hypocritical that they are not even there to explain their amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53743	According to the Rules of Procedure, she's a colleague of the Verica Radeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53744	At the College in the National Assembly, I asked those present, the heads of the parliamentary groups and the president of the National Assembly, to draw attention to the MPs of power to something that is contrary to our 107th Rules of Procedure. All of us MPs must take care of the reputation of the National Assembly. All of us must make the reputation of the National Assembly return to the people, for unfortunately it is destroyed. A few members of the government talked about it today, so now this was finally a simple reason for me to have to say it. You say, what they won't, that they boycott that they won't come to the congregation. First, every MP has the right to boycott. It's his right. Of course, then he doesn't have the right to attack someone else who doesn't boycott, but that's not the point. The theme is something else. You can't say that anyone who doesn't participate in this hall in the work of the National Assembly, I don't know, receives some salary, receives diaries, etc. My people, the journals abroad you're talking about, where MPs go on the road, are 15 euros. Right? Now that the citizens hear somebody's going, some MP is going abroad to pick up the diaries, they're going to think -- how much do these people get? Do not go to harm the price of the National Assembly to say something negative about these walkers. There's something to say about them. There are criminals and thieves among them and what MP groups are making, which now comes to the National Assembly and those who did not go to the elections and there is much to say about them and many things they need to answer for. We've been waiting since we had one session of the National Assembly to discuss whether or not you'd be removing the immunity of Bosca Obradovic for what he broke into with the axes, with a motor saw, which was breaking into the Public Service building, etc. I'm done. Please don't take part in the destruction of the reputation of the National Assembly by yourself to say something bad for those who don't participate in the work in this room.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53745	A colleague of Orlic's in business.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53746	Thank you. Article 103. I think there was room, Mr. Chairman, and this was over two minutes, but that's a small part of the problem, that you're reacting here, too. I think it's a matter of misunderstanding that just goes away. If someone didn't understand what our message was and what our motivation was, I'm sure you could explain it in two sentences. So we're making notes on our side just because we're keeping the reputation of this home. That's our motivation. And in the words we use, we're just standing behind the reputation of this home. What did we point to, to understand each other? We pointed out the fact that someone allegedly is boycotting something here, and then when he's a member of a delegation who has a meeting or another government job, official in a country of some destination, who allegedly boycotts seems interesting, so he wants to go a little bit there to see the way, which is said, then he doesn't boycott, and then he takes the ticket paid by the National Assembly, so he goes to this nice destination to do something there and he doesn't do anything, so he spends 10 days sometimes in a hotel that also pays for the National Assembly, then all of it pays for by Serbian citizens, and all of it gets those diaries that are really 15 euros, and our question is, what is that boycott? What a distraction the public is. Are they boycotting or not boycotting? Let them boycott as far as we're concerned, but let's not spend it on these people by taking plane tickets, going to these hotels, taking these foreign exchange logs, whatever they're worth, and then saying, "No, I'm boycotting something here." As for those who have now proposed these amendments, believe me, we are the least interested in this world in what they're doing and where they're hanging out. Did Djordje Vukadinovic again try to do some fake research for the gig and then explain it to someone again - there he is, except he fell in Belgrade, Aleksandar Vukic, here he is at 30%, and then when the elections come, that Aleksandar Vukic leads a list that wins 46%, how he will explain it to whom, that's his problem. Our problem is that this home is being taken care of here. Our problem is that this picture, which is in part of the citizens not so great, is being fixed. Among other things, we protect integrity by indicating who's tearing it down and who's doing it all for weeks. I think it was clear enough now, and you could explain it, too, but now I believe there's no further misunderstanding. Am I right?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53747	I really don't know what to say about the boycott in half. According to the Rules of Procedure, she's a colleague of Radeta's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53748	Article 27(1) Again, citizens get a different picture than what's real. First of all, I don't know which delegation is staying for 10 days in the white world. Secondly, you know the problems here now with delegations when Shormaz, a NATO lobbyist, tried to prevent Natasa Jovanovic, an SRS MP, from going on the official trip, so we intervened with the National Assembly president, and then he had to sign it, to accept that Natasha was also going as a member of the delegation. There's something else I wanted to say. These people, these MPs, are not going on the official trip because they think of it, but because they are on the list, because they are being called to ask themselves – do you want to go as a member of the delegation and what is eventually signed by the President of the National Assembly. So no one's taking anything from anyone. We had an incident when Branka Stamenkovic left alone and later had to pay for her plane ticket because someone also wanted to avoid her. The fact that she went to Strasbourg and said something there that is completely contrary to the interests of the Serbian state is a kind of problem or another kind of problem. I ask you most kindly and extremely well-meaningly, for all of us, because of this National Assembly, don't speak ill of the National Assembly, the people don't have a good opinion of us anyway, but you see, such statements as are heard here... You're commenting earlier -- I don't know what to say about this half-breed or I don't know what kind of boycott. Where are your deputies today who are not here? The MP can be officially absent today, he can go around these chains because of the Swiss, they can go around Serbian villages, they can go by their party obligations, because we're all here on the party line. Don't do that. Your benches are a little fuller than these completely empty ones. Don't make us talk about something we don't want right now and open a topic that's not our topic right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53749	My colleague Radeta, I still have to answer now. This is not about MPs boycotting the work of the National Assembly. It is their political right and I believe that even one right that belongs to them as MPs should be created. When I said, "up to half," the MP cannot come, or morally, can come to the office where we apply, signed neatly to attend the session and leave the building of the National Assembly. Also, if he is already boycotting the work of the plenary session, continue all sorts of boycotts other than the most important one, which is to keep in touch with the citizens who voted for him. So that's what I meant when I said boycott by half. Do you want to get the National Assembly in voting day? (No) Injury of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53750	A member of the 104th since it was a little while, not exactly a reference to the violation of the Rules of Procedure, but a replica to me. Right? So none of us, by the way, are told and at this point there are several times more in the O.R. than you are, but that doesn't matter, none of us have said that we are here talking about whether something has been taken away, denied, donated, everyone knows how to become a member of congregation delegations. We're talking about something else all the time, we're talking about faking, we're talking about pretending, when one of the members of the former regime here is selling fog, talking about how he's boycotting something, and he's not boycotting anything, because then he's walking around the white world, so for example, did Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Aleksandra Jerkov go to Doh for seven days recently? Was that close? How much did that ticket cost? Who paid them? And where are they going? And to all that, the question -- are they saying they're in a boycott? It's the essence of things. Do they say they're in a boycott? That's what we point to here. Did they get those foreign exchange logs? That's what they are. We didn't lie. We're just saying that this is what undermines the reputation of the National Assembly in the eyes of citizens, when you act so irresponsiblely. You do all these things, you enjoy them all, and the people pay you all, and you are not honest to say, "I am a Messenger of the people, and I am doing this work, you say, "No, I am boycotting." So the same thing, now check out that list that's at the entrance, find smart enough to sign today that they came to the session. There's their signatures on the list. See if there's an DS MP here, see if there's an MP named Dwri. I'm telling you he does. And where are they in the O.R. today and what did they sign up for if they didn't get into the O.R.? You and I both know what the answer is. The answer is to charge travel expenses. For a few thousand dinars they do it, and then there they yell again – I boycott this whole thing, I don't show up here. It is the price of pride that undermines the reputation of the National Assembly. And that's what we're pointing to. Gilasov, Jeremic, Obradovic's MPs do so and should not be recognized or threatened by any of you here. If we have to compete in something, we can also know the law and the number of MPs present, it's not a problem. But to guard the House of the People's Assembly and keep the institutions from waving saws and gallows, we'll do it every time and don't think any false apparition on the breach of the Rules of Procedure will stop us from doing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53751	The word is from a colleague of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53752	We can compete and throw stone off our shoulders, that's not the problem. It's about something else. National MPs participating in delegations should go there if they wish. For example, the SRS is very proud of our MPs who participate, Alexander Seselj, in the Council of Europe at the parliamentary assembly. Each time he attends a meeting and each time there, he makes views that are in the interest of the Republic of Serbia. It represents the interests of Russia that have been expelled from the Council of Europe, represents the view that KIM is an integral part of the Republic of Serbia, opposes that Ruža, what is her last name, the Ustasha of the Croatian Parliament. Natasa Jovanovic went to NATO's summit, and then expressed views completely contrary to those expected in NATO. He tells them openly that she is a member of the SRS that is against Serbia's NATO entry, which is for Serbia's entry into the ODKB. So that's why they serve delegation departures and has every right to go, as Shormaz goes and says Serbia should go to NATO. It's something terrible, but my God, you put it in that delegation, whether it's your position or your personal position, it's his business and yours. We draw attention only to the fact that Serbian citizens should have full information about the work of every MP and we do not compete here, especially not according to a colleague, false interventions, reports by the Rules of Procedure. We use the Rules of Procedure. You know, we can't keep our mouths shut because you don't want to change the Rules of Procedure. I also remind you before the public that we have been in fact working on some interim Rules of Procedure for three years. You keep promising to change the Rules of Procedure, because this is not a good one, all the worst things you said about him when he was brought in, when you were an opposition, then you didn't get this Rules of Procedure. The other night, Maria Obradovic said on a show, when she was distracted that there should be a Rules of Procedure who will answer the authorities when there is an opposition, she says – yes, but this suits us. So, please, take care of what you say in public. I'm telling you again, I don't care about her and your MP group, I care about the reputation of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53753	According to the Rules of Procedure, Vladimir Orlic, Article 108.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53754	That's right, although I haven't heard what member it was. Maybe I missed it. (Verica Radeta: Article 27, first position 1, and attitude 2. and the whole member. And there was one, then two, then the whole. Okay. (The Faith of Radeta: Are you not a lawyer, but you do not understand?) I was talking to Arsic. When it is not said, it is usually difficult for us to guess what was meant. Never mind, thanks for the extra explanations. This is a 106 now, just so you know. Great experts on the Rules of Procedure, this is now 106. So, as far as publicly spoken views are concerned, we do not have an absolutely emotional relationship according to this Rules of Procedure that we apply. So this is a set of rules that we're in control of. As we do, so do we expect from everyone else. There's the end of every story. We weren't even dealing with whether something about him was responding or not. You know who wrote it. It was written by the one who now pretends to be a boycott, and here it is registered to charge travel expenses, and here like Bosko Obradovic gets 35,000 dinars per month to live in Belgrade, in Dedinj, to more precisely determine where they are gardening, and here they talk about making their own parliament, across the street in the woods, but they will continue to receive wages, and here they are flying and wintering from the money that only they know how they earned, if they don't receive anything here. I'd say they don't receive anything here if they're boycotting, right? As for responsibilities for publicly expressed views. A publicly expressed view of each of us, in any case regarding NATO's pact issues, has raised the issue, is always the same and is the official Serbian position. Serbia is a military neutral country and our representatives in any assembly delegation always publicly represent that position, because it is something we really consider to be the only right one. If you are looking for space to be located a little closer, a little more precisely, as we are now closer and more precisely located where the garden is located on Dedinj Bosko Obradović. If you are asking us to locate more precisely, who is in favour of this country being a member of the NATO Pact, so here you will find order, representatives of the DS, MPs Vuk Jeremic, all those whom this Bosko Obradovic has now embraced as brothers born. They're both public and secret, and you can secretly find that in Wikilix Depecs. Several times, Vuk Jeremic and other representatives of Boris Tadic did so personally, arguing that Serbia would become a NATO pact member. I don't know, but if you're wondering who's doing it, those people are doing it. Once again, to protect the National Assembly first of all from these. If anyone is doing harm, they do harm, so let us continue this debate if you agree, as we have done so far, and we can also remind ourselves of what is harmful to this people and to this congregation as useless as you wish. I think it's a correct suggestion on my part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53755	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, colleague of Radeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53756	Article 32. I agree that we can break this by the Rules of Procedure, only to give Mr. Orlic my regards to Vlatko Ratkovic. Do you know who that is? Vlatko Ratkovic signed the Rules of Procedure as chairman of the DS Legislative Committee on 27 February 2012. So, what we're saying is that this Rules of Procedure is not the Rules of Procedure of this call, here's the evidence. But my colleague Orlic is not clearly in progress. Mr Arsic, for not telling him, it is not true that we are not discussing this Rules of Procedure, at that National Assembly college, on behalf of our parliamentary group alone, suggested what we are constantly proposing, that a new Rules of Procedure be finally adopted, which will allow normal, democratic debates in this House. Parliament Speaker said that since we have seven, eight, how many months left, it is too late to bring in a new Rules of Procedure, but that it will propose amendments to the Rules of Procedure that block the work of this parliament. Is that what happened? That's right. So don't, you're confusing the public again. We just want to be completely honest with all Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53757	The 11th Amendment was submitted by the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending. At its meeting of the Committee on Finance, a representative of the Proposer adopted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Zoran Despotovic submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Despotovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53758	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS attached to the amendments wants to make its contribution and to fix this bill on the conversion of residential loans into Swiss francs. We believe that this bill came late in a congregation debate because many citizens have lost their roof over their heads and are on the street today. Here are some problems, in particular in this proposed law in Article 4(4), it is said – the bank is obliged to apply an interest rate from the item 3 of this Article according to the offer which would apply on 31 March 2019, i.e. on the date on which the conversion bid was sent. This offer is given in the interest of banks and proposing representatives, and at least to those who are credit users. Then, in Article 6 of the proposed law, I quote - that the conversion is made per course per day of dispatch, and should stand on the date of the loan, i.e. on the date of conclusion of the contract, because no bank has paid in Swiss francs, but in dinar equivalent, of course, if this is more favourable for credit users, which should be agreed on by the bank and the credit user. Also, in the same Articles 6 and 7, we believe that the 30-day deadline is short, because the credit user in this case needs to be careful and needs time, even if he's hiring an expert to decide on the proposed decision. In order not to be deceived again, a reasonable deadline for such a decision should stand up to 60 days. In Article 10 following Article 1, paragraph 2 should be added, which should be read - if, in the meantime, the withdrawal of the residence loan until the date of the conversion has occurred a significant increase in the market value of the residential or other mortgaged facility, the bank will allow the borrower to enter a new or part of the facility under mortgage depending on whether the new mortgage offered, i.e. the facility or part of the facility exceeds or covers the amount of the remaining loan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53759	Thank you. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Jojic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53760	Ladies and gentlemen, it's a very serious business that I don't think falls under the government's jurisdiction. It is the application of the Law on Liabilities, in accordance with Articles 2, 8, 10 and 12 of the applicable Law on Liabilities, which regulates contractual relations between legal persons and natural persons. So this had to be in the jurisdiction of regular courts. Our courts aren't overloaded. How come they're not loaded? Because from the jurisdiction of our courts most of the jobs went to public notebooks and public executioners, and regular courts have time and they were supposed to regulate this area. Any citizen who is in charge of these contracts which are subject to this law have been concluded against the provisions of Article 65. The law on bond relations, because they're concluded in a fraud way. The banks have deceived our citizens, and the government is silent, the government is protecting the banks. If the Serbian radicals were in power, no bank would exist until it paid back the debts and they bear the burden of these frauds committed against our citizens because they brought the borrowers into the most unfavourable position. We led them astray through deception and led them astray. Therefore, this delusion and the fraud can only regulate a regular court on charges of finding these contracts void. The basis of this is also the decision of the highest court in this country, it is the Supreme Cassation Court. Even the government is calling for the Supreme Cassation Court's decision. Mr. Minister, here's the SRS proposal, and you don't listen to what you're interested in what the MPs say. The Serbian Radical Party is proposing, as suggested by the Verica Radeta, and I also suggest that this law be withdrawn, that a complete solution be sought in a comprehensive manner, and that this law should include those who have already paid off their debts under unfavourable conditions and who have suffered damages, as well as those of our citizens who continue to pay off debts. In this way, Mr. Minister, and our Government, will respect the constitutional provisions laid down in Article 21. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and in paragraph 1. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia and its provisions under Article 21(1) say that all citizens are equal before the Constitution and the law. Is that controversial? Aren't you arguing? If you slow down, we're making a difference now. Secondly, in paragraph 2, all citizens enjoy equal rights, without discrimination on any basis. Is that right? That's what the Constitution says. The government should adhere to the Constitution. It is a dam that does not allow anyone to behave against the Constitution and the highest legal regulation in this country. Ladies and gentlemen, this issue has not been fully resolved. You're solving this question, gentlemen of the government, for a piece. You will see, ladies and gentlemen, in the application of this law, what will happen now to you peasants. They have the right to say – and we are in an unfavourable position, and we cannot repay the debts and the government should write off the debts to the peasants, because in this way, without discrimination, we are equally acting and equally enjoying our citizens all rights.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53761	Comrade Jojic, bring the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53762	When it comes to vacating the legions of this law, vacating the legions means time spent from the day of the law until its application. This time is, as you predicted, unusual – that this law should take effect after the first day, and vacatio legis should allow those who need to apply that law to have time and thus to prepare themselves...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53763	Thank you, colleague Jojic. My colleague Jojic, you had two minutes, and you spoke six. The word has a minister, Mr. Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53764	Here, Mr. Jojic, I'll call you back, so you can pick up the line. Two things. First of all, no one is forced by this law by the Government of the Republic of Serbia to use this right given to it by this law. He can still listen to you, we'll see how many of them are left to sue and go to the courts or he'll take this as a solution. I again draw your attention that we were doing this as a compromise solution with these very people. As for the forgiveness of some debts, we did it precisely because of the reckless moves made by the former authorities, which came later on on payment, and we paid everyone where there was a basis for paying off something and for forgiving something, so that if the state had the possibility, it wanted, we don't have other citizens and we'll certainly do it in their interest. Wherever we have the opportunity to help the citizens, this government will.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53765	Right on line, fellow Jojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53766	Mr. Minister, I'd be delighted if you'd realized what you just said, but I'll just remind you that it was necessary to help the Pancheva "Azotari" who came into bankruptcy through the crime of current management in that factory. Serbia has lost one plant of the largest artificial fertilizer for the purposes of Serbia's agriculture, but that is why Serbia will now import artificial fertilizer whose price will be 35% higher. If needed to save and help, then the workers of the Pancheese “Azotara ” had to be helped, and 1,200 were left without bread, on the street. What did the executives do? They took the "Azotara" and took the "Special Port" and hired their party friends at the "Special Port". Interestingly, the ruling party does not have any board members. And now the "Azotara" factory is divided without a default balance, and its value has been accounting for over 120 million. The loss in the "Azotara" of Pancheva, gentlemen, was 72 million, and criminals and thieves have robbed 142 million and there is a criminal report before the Senior Public Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime. What do we do now? What are these people gonna do, how many are there, about 1,200? Now count on every three or four family members having one. You know what these problems are? I agree, it should be helpful, but why isn't "Azotara" pancheek saved? Serbian peasants remain without artificial fertilizer in this country. And you have monopolies that imported artificial fertilizer, so they sold "Azotari" and bought from "Azotara" and then reselled. You had in "Azotari" 15 million, "Victoria Grupa" that sold wheat. So you had in "Azotari" from the Vrbasa firm that performed seven times the "Azotara", seven times stood in the last year and cost a million euros for each start of production. That means seven times the factory stops, seven times the plant starts, seven million euros have done damage in this way. And the chairman of the Management Board spends two and a half million a year in a Belgrade bar, which includes bills, kevapes and whiskey.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53767	Thank you, colleague Jojic. The word has Nedjo Jovanovic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53768	I thank you, Chairman. If in some ways we would try to take a fair approach to a problem that is very complex, very complex, then we must bear in mind some other principles of the Law on Liabilities that are not mentioned. In particular, the principle of equality between the contractors, then the principle of security and honesty in the contractual relationship, ultimately the principle of banning the cause of damage. When the principles of the Bond Relations Act are observed, it is concluded that the bank may have caused damage to its co-contractor, i.e. the borrower, given that it multiplied the amount of the debt based on the credit to the bank with the currency clause which was the same as it was. On the other hand, is it a violation of the principle of equality of giving? It is obvious that there is also a problem because the credit user is now returning a tenfold higher amount than what he could repay that the currency clause was in euro. In the end, does this violate the principle of security and honesty in a bonding relationship? When things are viewed like this, then it would be logical to conclude that credit users are damaged. However, there is the other side of the medal. The same credit user as the contractual environment had complete freedom of definition, on the one hand, so his autonomy of will could be expressed in a way that implies the protection of his interests. Whether or not the credit user did it depends on each case individually, and on each credit arrangement observed, isolated from others, because we have a specific situation here. Why? If the bank has covered up any fact from the credit user, if the bank has given the credit user the wrong information, if the bank has provided the credit user with information that led him astray and kept him in error when it comes to the credit arrangement, then the automatic liability of the bank is present. But there's always a but a credit user is a contractual party that's completely free in this contractual relationship. The borrower would have had to take into account all possible risks, start with the risk of repaying the loan, put the mortgage as a means of repaying the loan, of course, and everything that implies the time period of repayment of the loan. Why am I saying this? As an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group, I have made it very clear and decadent that we will support this bill proposal, aware of the fact that between the two evils, the evils on the one hand, which implies a noose on the neck of credit and other evil users, that the state of Serbia does not lose its service to the economy through banks, because we will drive the banks out of Serbia, then a compromise solution, where there is a potential risk of non-tasking. And this law only gives a discretionary right to a credit user to accept the terms of this lex specialis, or to define itself as a court dispute. The Supreme Cassation Court in this regard took a position and gave one instruction, which, of course, is not binding, for low-level courts, when he said – the currency clause is void. Whether low-level courts will directly apply that position of the Supreme Cassation Court in court decisions, that is exclusively in the judges and in their jurisdiction, given their independence. In any case, if this were to take place by review, and again, the jurisdiction of the court, the Supreme Court of Cassation, to resolve and decide by audit, then that position would be applied. But that attitude automatically leads to the position that the banks will have one, let's call it, if at all otherwise, a rigid approach to the whole problem, because it will be considered damaged. The state of Serbia, by some deep conviction, has acted wisely. On the one hand, given the inherited problems from decades ago, I've been saying for decades, there's been a situation where he has to take potatoes out, and it's very hot potatoes out of the fire. It's easy to say -- let's go, the banks, let's go from Serbia, we'll say -- it's over, we won't have more business service in the sense in which we need to have, the banks are gone, those who brought us up to this point are not in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, they're not in this debate, they're instituting tycoonization of banks in Serbia, and we're in a position to think as best possible to protect citizens. Where there's the only problem I've put out here, and when I speak as an authorised representative, I'll do it again. The problem is discrimination, and it is possible discrimination against citizens when it comes to the constitutional principle of non-discrimination, because it is a constitutional principle, because it will be discriminated against by those citizens who were in a credit arrangement, who are credited in Swiss francs, when it comes to the currency clause, have paid off and are extremely, extremely difficult and burdensome when it comes to their financial status, and now we have the privileged position of those citizens covered by this law, in the sense that the users of the credit that is still active, as well as those citizens where the obligation has reached, but still have not started the enforcement process. So these citizens have benefits, unlike all those who paid off the loans. And here we come essentially into a problem called - violation of the prohibition of discrimination. Can this problem be resolved by a court dispute? It probably can, but it depends on the courts and it depends on the case law. On behalf of the Socialist Party Group of Serbia and my fellow Socialists, I believe that another solution could not be made other than this. We could have covered all the citizens and then made one big problem when it comes to budgetary burden, because the question is whether the state of Serbia could take on such a great burden, because we are all like-minded here, and I don't think there's any division between us in terms of protecting the Serbian state's budget. I'm sure that budget couldn't withstand that burden. This is how we came up with a compromise solution that certainly isn't good for all citizens, I tell all citizens because they're all equal before the law. On the other hand, it might not be good for the banks if it were different, because the banks here suffer certain burdens, but the only compromise approach is what it is defined by a law that I hope we may in some foreseeable future be forced to correct, change, unless, in a practical sense, give those results that are expected of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53769	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. On Article 14th of the amendment, with correction, was filed by MP Nikola Savic. Here you go, Comrade Savik.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53770	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, as far as this amendment is concerned, i.e. the complete law on the conversion of residential loans indexed in Swiss francs, the SRS warns you that one injustice cannot and should not be corrected by another injustice, which Negoš would say: "When the time comes for the old corrections of injustice under some new tyrants." So we have nothing against it, and we appreciate this effort to try to find a solution in this area that really affects a large number of our citizens, but simply, you went the wrong way. This law is anti-constitutional and applied, as I said at the outset, to some others in this entire chain. First of all, what about those people who somehow managed to pay off these loans, because the law doesn't treat them at all. There are people, I know personally, who have sold real estate, which have been worth more than two or three times that property they took credit for, to take that heavy burden off their necks, but we simply see that no one thought about such people. The second thing, no one should and no one has the right to define Serbia's citizens' money for certain things that are not foreseen by the budget. What's the budget for, and why all this, knowing what this is all about? Third thing, I need to find the culprit for all of this, although I have to say it's not very simple, because there's a shared responsibility and people may have been unwarranted into all of this, but a large number of these foreign banks were primarily managed with extra profits. Of course, we're not in favour of exorcising foreign banks, but their extra profits need to be reduced to some minimum possible measure, so that they can have some benefit and so that the business they offer to their clients is within certain limits as it is in other countries.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53771	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 15th amendment. Here you go, colleague Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53772	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's about the supervision of the National Bank. I must remind myself of the power of these unfortunates again. So someone calls them traitors, and I'm not a fan of it, I call them unfortunate. I believe that the state of Serbia cannot bring down on the outside unless there are political forces to help them inside. They offered themselves very clearly to all citizens for such a type of service, to do so and therefore touring Brussels, Pristina, Skopje, to seek out all possible allies in an attempt to bring down power in the Republic of Serbia. So, they don't hesitate to bring down the very state of Serbia. To remind me, when they ruled, and the change occurred in July 2012, and from 2008, it seems to me, Mr. Orlic, by 2012, that the growth of the euro rate from 74 dinars rose to 117 to 118 dinars. So it's about 55%, so the dinar has weakened, and the euro has increased by 55%. Now I want to compare the last six, seven years, from 2012 to today the euro course is still. Inflation in their time was 8%, and now it doesn't exceed 2%. Inflation of the prices of growth to a small extent, and today they do everything they can to bring down financial stability, and they do not hesitate to bring down Serbia's own state. They boycott the meetings of the National Assembly, and do not boycott the wages. They are walking to express their dissatisfaction and that is their right, but in that walk they do not overcome violence, they do not hesitate to try to drive away foreign investors, which is "bosic Ljotic" has tried several times, saying that when they come to power, they will close down some of the factories that foreign investors have opened. He is not aware that there would be no access if it weren't for the country on its way to the EU, if it weren't for domestic investors, so we wouldn't have anything to sell on foreign markets, and without exports, the country with this kind of debt would be a dead country. That's why it's their desire to dissipate investors, to challenge inflation again, to rise the course again, and to have the former regime's gentlemen muttering again. Once again, fog dealers, the theft of Gilas, which is Belgrade's deficit, seem to me, Mr. Orlic, to be 20%. The deficit in the state register, the budget deficit was, I think, about 10%. Today it's a surplus. They all do, and in doing so, I wonder Bosca Lojtić, who was not an integral part of the former regime, did not rule along with them, and everything seems to be very tempting, Gilasov, Šolakova, Petreus, and everything seems to be coming to an end in the collapse of the state, or in the drive to bring down the state of Serbia. Once upon a time, you all remember, in the Dvora protests, in the family, there was once a sign of the Dvora, a symbol of the Dvora was three fingers like this. Ever since he got close to Gilas, the sign of the Dvora is cash. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53773	Thank you, colleague Risticevic. The right to replica has Dr Vladimir Orlic, a colleague Risticevic mentioned him on several occasions. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53774	Since you've already asked, Mr. Risticevic, let me confirm some things. Yes, indeed, the change in the course of the dinar towards the euro over only four years has been so drastic. You're absolutely right about that. So, with seventy-something, we came to about 120 euros and that it had a significant impact on the quality of life of citizens. Well, of course it is. We know very well, and because when the average salary is recalculated as it looked, let's say, in the euro and 2012, so when compared to the average wage in the euro today, we see so clearly the difference, that it was 320, about 330 versus now in January of this year 460 euros. You'll agree, the big difference and the result, not only of the increase in wages in the public sector, we adopted that solution here last year, but also of the real sector, but of the increase in pensions in the meantime and the minimum labour price we've increased several times. That's all true and you're absolutely right. I expected you to react because of some notes, whether there is justice or not, and because of the invitation to meet agricultural producers in the same way. So, Mr. Risticevic, you get into this subject, I believe, you understand better than I do. Am I wrong to say that it already seems, that just a few days ago the government just helped agricultural producers? Someone says: It seems to someone, what about those who have already borne the price? Well, let's say, farmers were helped just a few days ago for the delivery of fertilizer from 2012. Same logic, same concept, same, unfortunately, kind of problem. Some already paid for it. However, those who are not, who are in the problem of the state, have once again found ways and strength to help. Ninety-one million is set aside, say, for that purpose. Mr. Risticevic is very good at it, so he can correct me if I'm wrong about it. So the fact is, we help everyone wherever we can find the right way. We help everyone when we have what, what resources. And, of course, we talked about communism today, so here's to agriculture. It's a serious and responsible relationship, and it's completely contrary to the nonsense that Dragan Gilas is making today when he talks. He's going to all the country, all the land that's working it in this country to nationalize. He's gonna pay for it, I don't know what money he's gonna pay for, he just doesn't mention it. He doesn't mention his hundreds of millions that he knocked up in companies while he was head of the state while he was in public and political office. So he doesn't mention he's gonna pay. Where, I don't know, it's gonna look like the back of a citizen again, only if he gets a chance, but he won't. But his stories, his newly discovered Communism, that's total nonsense, that's what we laugh at today and wonder – is it possible for a man to say it seriously? As far as you're concerned, another sentence, Mr. Risticevic, that man in the city of Belgrade alone, made a deficit of over 20% of the budget deficit. You know what you'd do today if you gave him a chance? Well, the same, if not worse. I suspect even worse. And you know why? He didn't become less insolent for years that he spent away from power, he became just more greedy and aggressive, as I can see. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53775	Thank you, colleague Orlic. The right to replica has Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53776	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Orlic, you forgot. So when Dragan Gilas stood up for agriculture...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53777	Please speak to me, not directly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53778	Yeah. Mr Marinkovic, when Gilas and the team ruled Belgrade, and these ruled over all of Serbia, unfortunately for us, it is a curse today – that God gives you democracy and Gilas lead the state and Belgrade again. So, when they ruled, they brought in Miskovic's "PKB". That's what Mr. Orlic forgot to say, Mr. Marinkovic. So he brought in Miskovic's crew that built the barn. He pushed the PKK to lose 87m euros. The intention was for the first time, as our young people say, to take over "PKB", and then to divide Miskovic and Djilas among themselves. Hence, the interest of Dragan Gilas, called Gitler, is of interest to the "PKB", who cannot regret the "PKB", hence his service to the crowd, or what was the name of that industry, that Comrade Gitler had put the Roma in containers so that he could build housing buildings. And today we're attributed to fascists, and they put the Roma in the container, very strange, and they're walking with the Ljotics. So Comrade Gilas was making a barn by square, 2,000 euros square square of cow barn, didn't predict that cows had horns, so when they came in, it was a problem. They had cows in the PKK cut their horns so they could even get into those stables. In doing so, the company that performed these works never had a construction license, had one employee, it was called Turbo Gas from Kickinda, and the company, to pay those 10% commissions, sold its own field to its firm of 650,000 euros, which is 65 times the price. It's probably how he washed the cash and was assigned to another Gilas. The result is the loss in subsidies in agriculture, i.e. the deficit in payments of 10.2 billion, which the government has to pay after 2012. And what they promised to pay off the subsidies didn't pay off, but they left those debts behind and this power was public debt, recognising it as a public debt, paid all farmers. So much for their agricultural policy. And to say they've executed a cowocide, that in four years their government has lost 200,000 cows. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53779	Thank you, Mr. Ristichevich. Right on the line, Vladimir Orlic. Here's a colleague of Orlic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53780	Mr. Chairman, I'm really going to make sure he doesn't cause the replica again, and if I happen to be wrong about what, forgive me. So I hadn't forgotten a little before, but simple time wasn't enough. When we talk about yellow tycoon Gilas Dragan, those ideas are so awesome because he gets them where he gets them. I saw in one of his interviews that he was getting these ideas about agriculture in inspiring talks with Miroslav Miskovic, that's what he said. I guess their estates are close, so they drink coffee from time to time together, and that's how they exchange ideas. These things didn't, Mr. Risticevic, I hope I didn't challenge the replica now, only to the agricultural sector. When it's said that these people deliberately sabotage investments, it's quite true and it's completely in place. So they wrote letters to Chinese investors who helped us find a good solution, to literally save the hardware store in Smederev. So they wrote letters to Chinese investors who helped us find a solution to literally save Bor, so complete regions, so that we can. Today, to solve successfully, someone had to have a hard time torturing and finding a solution, to be terribly persistent, but I would also say brave and capable. All that bothers Dragan Gilas. He says it's a disaster, he'll undo it all. Imagine, everything is going to be nationalized, a man who's been marketing for the green party and today, I see, claims he's never changed his beliefs in 1990, and some, when he was selling himself for some student leader, he was the creator of the famous thought -- this people, that's when he said, destroyed Turks and communists. Today, he declares himself the greatest neo-Communicator to nationalize all living things, seems to be anything but what should be nationalized first. If he had done this seriously, he would have nationalised those hundreds of millions of euros that he was pumping into his companies and his businesses, and he knows it was a flagrant conflict of interest and a flagrant trade of influence. If he hadn't been aware of it, he wouldn't have been there in 2004. In 2005, Mr. Risticevic, in front of reporters, spoke and swore - I'll give up these companies, nothing will have to do with me anymore, and then, apparently, some companies sold 10 years or less than ten years later. What if he sold if he retired from business, we all wonder. He didn't retreat from anything, he was brutally rich, brutally in his pockets, and in his accounts he suffered while the people were poor and yearn. Hundreds of thousands of people were left without bread on the table, and Dragan Gilas, as he represented a successful businessman, became a millionaire overnight, and the next night a multimillionaire, to end up as a billionaire, a dinar, or whatever. These are the biggest problems, Mr. Risticevic, and not what Serbia today is, the truth is, it stands out 4,000 dinars per hectare, 1200 for fuel, it is modest. But he can, he knows how to secure so it doesn't cost anyone tomorrow, so no one has to pay for the future. These are the real things that we can make possible today and make it more, because now we think about people, and not as did this Đilas, along with this ridiculous Jeremic, and even more ridiculous Marisava Obradovic, is that what that Obradovic was called, therefore, who always thought of themselves and themselves in the world the most difficult. Well, that's why they have as much support as they have.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53781	Thank you, colleague Orlic. Now you've challenged again, I presume Mr. Risticevic to look for a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53782	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, Mr. Orlic forgot, he merely cited part of the sins of Dragan Gilas. The greatest sin in me is “cowocide. ” During the DS, 200,000 cows disappeared. The value of these throats is 400m euros. But at first sight, the loss seems to be only 400m euros, but every year the loss was increased by a holding worth about 200m euros. In just the last seven years, if that number of throats had survived, agriculture would have thrown out more by 1 billion and 400m euros more money than it is now. Also, you forgot Mr. Marinkovic, Mr. Orlic forgot that Gilas had become a farmer overnight. Zivkovic is not the only farmer's colleague, and now I have a colleague of the farmer Dragan Gilas, who founded in Sikula, I think, "The Young One" or "Partizanka" and thus became a farmer overnight with 20 acres of the most fertile country in Negotin. So, he's a farmer, another colleague I've acquired in this House, or Dragan Gilas was very short, because he doesn't like these debates, someone can ask him how it's a multimillionaire, how someone who has billions, how someone who has made 60 billion dinars, how someone who has earned 500 million euros, how someone who leads the revolution... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53783	Sign up again, Mr. Risticevic. There's something wrong with your unit. Looks like there's something wrong with the system. If I may ask a colleague from the service to try. Here's the thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53784	I believe you didn't arrange it. I don't know, give me back my time at first. So, Mr. Marinkovic, Mr. Orlic forgot all of Gilas' projects, forgot that Gilas was my farmer's colleague, that he bought 25 acres of land and qualified himself as Mr. Zivkovic to give me competition overnight in Sikula. So, apart from what he did, Mr. Gilas executed a "cowocide" because 200 thousand cows were missing... (Marian Risticevic: Is it forbidden to say "cowocide"? [[off microphone]] )
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53785	It's not forbidden, of course, to say anything, but the system is wrong. I'm setting a break of 10 minutes so the system can reset and bring it in. Please, the system needs to be fixed. Hold on, we've got all the time to debate, 10 minutes off, please the service to get the system back online so the units can work properly. [[After a break.]] We're going back to work. I apologize to all the MPs on this time-out for the interference in the work of the system. Mr. Risticevic, you have another minute. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53787	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, if I were a conspiracy theorist, I would think that behind this break is a well-known advertiser of advertising and media content by Dragan Gilas. However, I do not believe in conspiracy theory, but I will repeat that Dragan Gilas, overnight, became my fellow farmer and found famous actor Branislav Lecic to guard his orchard. And since the viewers say I made something up, I'm forced to let go. So these roars were the roar of Branislav Lečić, who in some way became a court servant at the court of Dragan Gilas, called Gita. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Marinkovic, I don't know what was heard, but I objected to Mr. Orlic not mentioning the cowicides that were carried out during the rule of Gilas, the Drpocrat party and their satellites. So, at the time, 200,000 cows were missing, which is a loss nominal of 400m euros only in breeding material. Also, every year, in the rejuvenation of that cow, they would give 200,000 euros and in these 10 years over a billion euros we lost, and perhaps two, thanks to their destruction of the stock fund and were committed to doing so, so that their patrons, such as MK Komerc, Matijević, such as Miskovic, etc., could reach the huge complexes of agricultural land they sold, always, as our peasants say, for 200 euros per hectare, although the value of that land is between 10,000 and 20,000 euros. During the night in the village of Sikola, near Negotina, Mr Gilas became my colleague farmer and now, apart from the winemakers of Zivkovic, I have a colleague of Gilas. I believe those people can't lead to a better future, especially because it's not remembered that millionaires are rising against millions. Dragan Gilas, who made 60 billion dinars to his companies, wanted to lead millions of poor citizens, while he was rich, they were losing money. All their money was in the pockets of Dragan Gilas. And I don't believe that anyone can believe that Dragan Gilas, a millionaire, a multimillionaire, will lead them to a better future. Revolutions give birth to poverty, poverty gives birth to revolution, and behind it is Dragan Gilas, who is trying for the second time to take over money that is in citizens' pockets, after seven years of change, again in their pockets, he tries to gain that money and gain the right to the pockets of citizens. I don't think we should let that happen, Mr. Orlic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53788	Thank you. Right on the line, Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53789	Okay, I agree that we must never allow it, and I'm sure the people will never allow it, but on the note that I am some things, and about the PKK, I forgot, I haven't forgotten, of course, but the problem is that these insubordinations were so much that it really takes a lot of time for a man to mention everything. It's not just about the relationship to the cows you were talking about. When you look at the full history of the PKK, while it was under Dragan Gilas's paw, you see that, honestly, there is a devastation in tens of millions of euros a year. So that's how much she was due every year. It used to be 15, sometimes 35, but that's all the way down to minus. That's not what I'm saying. That's what those who are close to them say. I once asked Dragan Gilas in the Belgrade City Assembly to comment on it. You know what he was doing? Shut up, beat his head like Jeremy's councilman, otherwise a great hero threatens women and raises his hands to them. Whenever you ask him something, just keep your mouth shut and look in front of you, you don't know where he's wrapped his tail. So Gilas kept quiet that day, drawing something, looking at the ceiling and pretending that nothing was happening, and then after they realized that the balance was positive, because they were writing off debts, that's another thing, and they lied, like they lied about their management not knowing how successful they were, so I deserved to grant myself astronomical bonuses. Imagine that. So if it hadn't been stopped in its intention, their management would have granted itself and paid for astronomical bonuses, for which, for tens of millions of euros due yearly, in the PKK alone. I can't think any other way than the next way. How can anyone do that? Just on purpose. If he's doing it on purpose, what's the intention behind it? I see only one thing, to destroy to that extent, to disenfranchise, to depose that company, to be sold for tomorrow's sake. Today when Dragan Gilas tells you that it's sold cheap, you know he's lying here. If it was cheap, he'd run first to pay for it, but he didn't. He waited not to be worth anything, literally not to be worth anything, then to take it literally without a single euro invested, he or he, as the other great tycoon is called, who advises him and gives him advice on how to invest in agriculture. It doesn't make any difference to me. For Serbian citizens, there is no difference. That's why people can't get more than a few hundred to listen to them in those empty, empty and endless boring monologues they sometimes do with a tap, and sometimes, what Ljoticovic Obradovic said, sometimes a little bit in the parks. Now, when they finish their charade, and this is my last sentence, in the end there will be only four or five of them, Đilas, his Vice President Tepic, Borko Stefanovic and who, plus Bosko Obradovic, who in the meantime lost his organization, that on some circle in the park across the hall talk about how large and successful they were, but, well, it seems only by some unfortunate circumstances, they didn't win. As things stand, let them be only great experts and so clever, and you will know when to win.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53790	Thank you. Member of the 15th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Verica Radet. Here you are, colleague Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53791	Now, the question -- can I call Mr. Mircic, is he going to get a replica? Here, I called him. I'm just asking. So the amendment to Article 15 is a legal-technical character. We said that instead of law enforcement by the National Bank, it should stand to execute the National Bank. He tells me that our amendment cannot be accepted, given that this amendment refers to a legal-technical order. Well, we've seen all sorts of government opinions, but we haven't seen this kind of nonsense yet. So what have we heard today about this law, about individual members, about the law at all? Anyway, when all of this is being summed up, what's being said today, basically, there's no big difference compared to what we in the SRS have proposed, except that those in the government didn't dare tell the government to withdraw this law. We have heard here that the law must not cover all citizens because of the burden on the budget, that the law must not cover all citizens because of the burden on the budget. And this is really scary. You know in advance that you're discriminating some citizens, because God, you can't burden the budget to some amount, not just to someone who you've figured out is optimal. They say we also heard here what we want to do, talk to the banks and get the banks together and leave. First, the banks won't pick up and leave, because we're just asking for those extra profits to be spent on the compensation of our countrymen, our citizens who have illegally damaged. The banks will not go away because, unfortunately, the people in Serbia are hard to live for, because they all take loans, whether they are consumer loans of a lower amount or those in various illegal currencies, but in any case to the banks, those foreign banks that are operating here, are also paid to stay and survive in Serbia, of course, under these conditions that you have made available to them and none of these banks that have the name of a foreign bank has anything to do with their parent bank, nor does it operate here nearly how it works in their home country. We've heard, too, that we can expect changes to this law. So, this sort of thing to say and vote in the end for the law is unserious, for the bill. What did we want again, since this is the end of the debate under this bill, we wanted to show you? You heard today during the debate, and I assume you've all read the news that there's another group of citizens who's been damaged by a team of so-called citizens. Swiss loans and that they decided not to come out of there in the Supreme Cassation Court or the Court of Appeal, I'm not sure. Our question to you, ministers, and to the Government of the Republic of Serbia - what will you do if these people are truly persistent in this, as they were persistent in the strike the other day? How are you gonna get them out of here? Are you going to put them away? Are you going to convince them? Who will go to congratulate them on Easter, if they stay until Easter? How will you end up solving their problem? Their problem is what they're talking about and not just theirs. There are other groups. You know, various groups of citizens are now going to form and appear with their demands, just being offered what you have come to meet, and what the rest of you don't want, because as one colleague said, you can't do because of overburdening the budget. Don't do this, don't go running around on your own people, don't let people look at each other the wrong way, but nicely, Minister, once again and for the last time, please, I suggest you, withdraw this bill on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I guess after all, you're clear, not only after everything that's going on in this assembly, what you're listening to here, but also after what's already started happening outside this building. So, withdraw the bill, suggest a serious text, consult the experts, include the National Bank, force the governor to engage and make a nice... As much as you say it's communist, when I say make it, I certainly didn't mean to take the whip and beat the bankers, but it's known how the bankers are forced to go out with a proposal, so whoever loves it is. You know, and what we have as a proposal today, it's not your idea, it's not your solution. We listened to it in public, it lasted a few days, but a few days, so the minister went out, said it would be like that, so the lady representative of the strikers went out and said, "No, it won't be like this," and then the minister said, "We will end today, and it will be in the government tomorrow, and it will be the day after that, so that you will eventually accept what you were asked to do." You were blackmailed by these people and accepted what they asked of you. That's not the answer to the problem. It's the elimination of one fire, and the others, as you can see, are already opening up to you on the same subject. Mr. Djordjevic, you will be embarrassed to come back to the National Assembly with amendments to this law or the adoption of a similar law, unless today you accept a well-intentioned SRS proposal, which is not intended to help the Government of the Republic of Serbia, because we are a serious opposition to you, but in order to help citizens of the Republic of Serbia who, for what reasons, know, by chance, deliberately, deliberately, deliberately, indemnity, are in charge of these large loans in these Swiss francs. It was a mistake of that system, so be it, but give you a solution, not only for this system, not only for this regime, but for all people who are currently loaded with credits, who are going to take credits in the future, to be exclusively loans in dinars and, accordingly, to each individual contract that exists in business banks in Serbia, which refers to debts in Swiss francs and euro, to have them sit down nicely and to each perform a special bill and to know whether any one of these people still owes small money to banks or banks to some serious funds to these people. Special attention must be paid to those who have lost their dwellings, without the large amount of money they have already given to the banks. Minister, these are also citizens, citizens of the Republic of Serbia. You have no right to choose, we will help these, not those. You have to help everyone. We've given you solutions. Pull the law, and we'll discuss a serious proposal together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53792	Thank you, colleague Radeta. The word has Vladimir Djukanovic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53793	We've heard a lot of things, and I have to say, I agree with the previous speaker very well. This is an extorted law. I can also agree that he's unfair, but he still has the basis in the Supreme Cassation Court's decision. There's a certain decision on the basis of which this lex specialis is made. Why is that? You'll have to ask some predecessors who went so hypocritically to support strikers, or people who were in charge of the Swiss francs, to support them to strike hunger. We had a terrible situation for the Supreme Court judges to flee over the fence. They shouldn't have come out the front exit. Why is that hypocritical? Because it was you, who came to support the people who were strikening hunger, who also persuaded them to be in charge of the Swiss francs. That's the biggest problem here. Why would they do that? Because their officials were party, then, and Djelic, and that Pitic, and many others, these are the people who worked for these foreign banks and they liked this because they had some vision that the course would be unfavourable and that essential banks would thus earn. I wish we could tell the banks now -- wipe it all out, you can't act like one. You know, there's something called a contractual obligation between a bank and that client. If we were to do so, in front of an international institution, in front of an international court, the state of Serbia would have to pay for it fat. This is scary. Why? Because at this point, all the happiness and there is a decision of the Supreme Cassation Court, but objectively, without that decision, if we tried to make something like this, people who were in charge in the euro would come forward, at that moment, who were taking, who had a much more unfavourable interest, so they would say, wait, give us some relief too. So this is an abnormal situation that the former government created for us, and these same people today, I say, go hypocritically, support those people who strike hunger, and then when these people agree to some kind of deal, to get together, because it's a shame to see someone run out of apartment, without a house, to double-pay that loan because someone cheated them, then they write on Twitter – shame on you, you sold yourself to Vukic. They were so interested in the fate of these people. So many are interested in the fate of anyone in this society. Look at today, say, Mr. Marinkovic, what they're doing with these demands they're offering us. Otherwise, since there's always some tension here, or some story about how they're offering an expert interview team, people, we have to say very openly -- it doesn't occur to us to talk to them in any single form. I don't know, Marinika Tepic, she can talk to us. It can't be extra-institutional, there's no way we can talk to them anywhere, and I can talk to them as much as you want, which teams can run, we won't talk to them, we don't care at all, so it's a waste of what they do to the media. We just have to say how much they're interested in a simple citizen. Look at their demands, they're all printed for the private business of Dragan Gilas and Dragan Šolak – REM and RTS, they're their only demands. They don't care about farmers, they don't care about regular workers, they don't care about anyone at all. They were also not interested in people in charge of the Swiss francs, so they were not interested in "Post", who are now in the worst way offensive because people agreed to an agreement with the government to solve the problem. They're only interested in their private business to steal Telecom at one point, because Mr. Solak and Mr. Gilas want a complete monopoly in telecommunications and of course in the media space. That's the only reason they're protesting, their private business is taking these people out on the street. We, of course, appeal if they want to go back to parliament, come and talk to us, can have another kind of conversation, if we have some debate shows, we can talk there, but about your conditions that you offer us so hypocritically and offer us negotiating teams, and we're not going to talk crazy, we're not thinking about talking. Don't force it on the media anymore. It's not about preparedness or unpreparedness, we don't want to talk about the point. Here's the key. So, as far as this is concerned, I'm sorry that we came into this situation that we have to pass this kind of law, but on the other hand we would have people who, on the other hand, are left without apartments, run out of houses, lost their property, because someone deliberately advertised loans in Swiss francs, so that, of course, their party buddies could make money and show up good in banks that they later went to as former ministers. You just watch out for that shame, as finance minister or economy minister, you go dead cold afterwards to work for the bank, I guess there's some clause, a ban, how you can do that. No, he's dead 'cold gone and carried even state secrets, that is, everything he could carry about our economy and finance. You went to a foreign bank now and you said all that there so that this bank should do business and you made it possible for that bank to do it all here. So, of course, it's terrible, I say, what we're bringing here, but there was no other way to save people so they wouldn't lose their property. Indeed, as unfair as this is to me, and as much as it is to me, I must admit, hard to vote for this, I will vote simply because these people must somehow be saved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53794	Thank you, fellow Djukanovic. The 15th amendment, with a correction, was filed by MP Milorad Mircic. Here's a colleague of Mircic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53795	Honestly, I have listened carefully to all previous exhibitions and I wonder how naive this Serbia should be to believe in this artificial division on a political scene? Don't forget, you are the continuity of the government you call the previous. Everything they've been doing, you've moved on. The fact that you are using this congregation in public, that you represent yourself as different, that you do not live in error, will quickly expose it. Boris Tadic was one of the major actors on Serbia's political scene, you see how they are treating him now. They take him out in front of the crowd to whistle at him. It was the one that was generally accepted in front of the EU. They repeat the same story to you. Go back to real life problems. We have more problems here. One of the problems is that you've gone so far in your stubbornness that you don't want any well-intentioned advice to follow. We insist that all citizens of Serbia be helped under the law and the existing constitution. Here is the most endangered group in charge of the Swiss francs, but we said we have a decision from the Supreme Cassation Court. The role of the National Bank is that after such a decision, recommendations, it only recommends commercial banks to respect that recommendation. Well, people, you have an example from 2013, did we tell you, when banks unilaterally set high interest rates, increased margins, the same court made a recommendation, the National Bank of Serbia warned commercial banks that they must respect that recommendation. What happened? They've brought the interest and the margins down to normal. There's no philosophy here. The other problem that opened up here, and you're turning your back, it's the institutions of public executioners. It is a problem that is increasingly facing Serbia. You won't react here. You won't. It's enough in this law to say that the retroactiveness of the return of property is possible to those who were wrongly deprived of property, and you're not going to do it. Just reviewing the process to do, nothing more. Well, maybe people won't even answer, say, "Here, we're interested in proving by judicial means that our property is ours, maybe people have given up, but you can also make it possible for these people." No, you won't. Why? For our incomprehensible reasons. You won't for the simple reason that an institution imposed on you by the IMF is sacred, you mustn't touch it.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53796	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53797	Here I go. Instead of saying – we are really looking at the problems facing Serbia, you are here presenting some information that is no longer of interest to Serbia, who is the bigger thief, whether the bigger thief is this or the one from the former government. Who cares more? Why don't you follow the law? What's the D.A.'s office saying? Why doesn't the judiciary sit down with their hands cut, why doesn't it do its job? No, that's what cheap political points are for, because I have to tell you. Enough of those cheap political points. Don't forget one thing, Serbia is much more politically written than you think. You'll see how fast it'll come back on your head. You can't fool Serbia, it's nobody, and neither will you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53798	Thank you, colleague Mircic. The word has Vladimir Djukanovic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53799	Mr. Marinkovic, here's where we've heard something that's really good about it. I'll all agree on the judiciary, the D.A.'s office, you don't do the job. They don't work. How do I know why? I claim that the judiciary is otherwise an absolute cancer of the Serb society. Fully cancer of the Serb society's wounds. The way they work, it's a disaster. Why is that? That's how we were left. Ask the Venice Commissions, NGOs. Otherwise, I say openly, if it comes to that stage that they choose themselves, to suggest it, I won't vote for it. I'm opposed to introducing sudocrat into this society. She can't have a congregation that's the only one who's authorized to pass on national sovereignty to her, she can't not choose judges. It's out of my mind. They make a verdict on behalf of the people. If it's on behalf of the people, then excuse me, there must be this buckle between the people and the judiciary itself. I'm saying it openly, I'll never agree to it. But here we have something I've heard, which I can agree with, you know that's at the beginning, when we're talking about perpetrators. It's something that exists. I don't know what kind of audits you're doing right now. You're creating legal uncertainty. You would create complete legal uncertainty in society. We have to be completely honest, we've had two million 300 and some thousand convictions that came to the execution, and they couldn't be executed, because someone once abolished the SDK, ruined the entire system, and you put the courts to execute the verdicts. They could never do anything and now, of course, you have perpetrators who have helped that execution again somewhere, and whether it's just right now, it's not so fair, but it is the way it is. It exists, you can't do now I don't know what kind of audits, you'd create total legal uncertainty in society. I agree with a lot of things, but it's already done, so look to save what you can save. Otherwise, if you applied that system, you would destroy the country completely. We have to be rational here. Like this for loans, someone said, and I mentioned, among other things, that decision by the Supreme Court of Cassation, it makes a recommendation. Even a first-degree and second-degree court does not require them to do so, but they recommend that if they did otherwise, the Supreme Court would bring down their rulings. Like the National Bank, you may be able to give a recommendation to the banks what to do, but they don't have to, and they don't have to respect it, it's simply not a binding decision. We need to understand that there are already some contractual relationships made. So you have a contractual relationship between a client and a bank. If you come and make such legal uncertainty, let's go back retroactively, and that bank will sue you somewhere for bad business, or legal uncertainty that the state has created and you will lose anywhere in front of international institutions. So you're looking here to reduce the damage that's certainly been done, which is terrible, which is creepy, but you're looking to reduce the damage, so there's nothing worse. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53800	Thank you, fellow Djukanovic. The right to reply has Vladimir Orlic and Milorad Mircic, as his counterpart Djukanovic referred to his speech. Here you go, colleague Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53801	About that note that we are some sort of continuity of the former government. That's what's said. I don't understand, where someone sees continuity with those who literally are hundreds of thousands, make sure hundreds of thousands of people in just four years are out of work. Look at the different sources. Some will say 400,000, some will say half a million. The Republic Bureau of Statistics says more than that. Whatever it is is accurate, whatever it is exactly how these listeners like it, it's a disaster for people. It's a disaster of God. That now we who open jobs and we open them up so much that they're in hundreds of thousands of new jobs where they weren't there, we're continuity with those who lost hundreds of thousands to half a million -- that's completely pointless to talk about. Is Alexander Vukic himself in this country in the last few years opened, if there are nearly two hundred different factories and plants, so those 200,000 people may have been employed thanks to it, so some families that didn't have one month's salary now have one, two, somewhere more. What is this continuity we're talking about? Today we were talking about official data on the latest. Here is your 2018 official 50,000 120 workers in the economy, new employees in one year, million 131 thousand in total. Can that be compared? Well, he won't be able to. When it is said, why do we mention who among them is a greater thief, and they say so themselves. We've quoted here an internal party document and a document of the yellow company, DS, who say themselves, make sure that their leadership here since 2006 brought together people who stole in tenders, who have been embezzling for percentages, who thus brought their foreigners an epithet of yellow thieves. They say it themselves. Was it, the chairman of their Municipal Committee in Ruma, I think that Borovic is the last name of the man, he says -- Dragan Djilas and Bojan Pajtic are lopurde. If they say so, so what can we say instead of reminding them. And let's not say anything new on the subject. This Dragan Djilas and Bojan Pajtic, speaking of which, did not put us on any board of directors, nor did we help Pajtic with those affairs on the subject of the Vojvodina Statute. Maybe someone else did. That we don't deal with these continuitys. There's nothing cheap about it. Everything about the state is very expensive. The apostle Markovic often quotes that thought – it does not steal the state because it is expensively paid. We repeat this message today to both Gilas and this Pajtic and their fascists, the courters whom, thank God, the National Assembly seems no longer to be in the form of a parliamentary group. This message makes it very loud, perfectly reasonable and perfectly clear to them in every election. That message is probably the best kind of conclusion of this debate, if that's okay with you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53802	Thank you, colleague Orlic. The right to replica has Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53803	As for this respect for rights and legal norms, many things are now more clear why the process of reviewing the privatisation process that is criminal is not being carried out. The same interpretation would lead to legal uncertainty, as the EU would say, what it would think of us if we were to engage in an investigation of illegal, illegal privatisation. We are witnessing that in Belgrade, in the territory of Belgrade, many factories have been purchased, which were later torn down to turn into residential buildings, so it is said – what would the world think if we now audited it. What the world would think to be a revision where there's obviously green logic to things. Any normal will condemn such a way of operating banks. Well, then you can't really blame the greeners who were looking for a favor or a real estate supply. What would we blame the greens for? That doesn't make any sense. The logic here is that part of Serbia's population has been robbed in an illegal, illegal way. We want it regulated through the NBS institutions. As for continuity, Mr. Orlic, you don't understand, continuity isn't about you hiring or not hiring. It's just a set of random circumstances or current circumstances. It's a coincidence that you give stimulant to those who open the drives. It's not something that will bring good. The essence of continuity, you are for the EU, they were for the EU. The European Union says openly – Serbia's accession to the EU can only be accepted by Chapter 35, which is KIM, Kosovo's special republic. Secondly, your policy towards the IMF is exactly the same as their policy towards the IMF. Your two-story philosophy is exactly the same as DOS philosophy. It's continuity. It's important for this country. What you're telling us is that you've hired more than they have, so Boris Tadic presented the incorrect information that he hired 40,000 people before the elections, so it turns out that it's not true. We don't get into the accuracy of your data, but these are large-scale defining things for a government policy, or a state-level policy. Say you're against the EU, you don't want to hand over KIM. Say you don't want to co-operate with the IMF under these conditions, and then let's say you're a discontinuity. This is how you are - continuity.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53804	Thank you, colleague Mircic. Dr. Vladimir Orlic, right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53805	So, yes, it's the continuity or lack of continuity when a country is poor, when it's a skull and when it's sticking into its pockets or when someone on the other side makes sure there are some results that are seen through bread on the table, Mr. Mircic, which is also seen through new jobs, Mr. Mircic. You say so - by accident. What happens is we've secured 200 new factories, 200 new plants. How can that be an accident? Subsidies, has the state of Serbia invented them? Is it the only one that gives them away? Well, it won't be either. They're given to everyone in the environment, but they're not able to provide that kind of result to everyone in the environment, so that's why they don't have those firms as big as us. There's nothing random about it and there's nothing new about it. There's just someone there to try. One more thing, someone's got to be able to secure it. Is today a real story while we are talking here that Serbia is in play for the "Folsfagen" to come? I'm not saying they will, but imagine it and compare it to those who have lost hundreds of thousands of jobs. What's wrong with that? Kosovo and Metohija. Did we accidentally ensure that 13 states withdraw their confession? Didn't that work out? Someone happened to walk down the street, and as he bended down—see here is a withdrawn confession, let me put it in my pocket when I found it. It won't be. And that's what someone had to try and do, and that's what someone should have been able to do and secure. Isn't that proof that we know what we're doing and what we represent? And the European Union, if you don't know, has something to do with whether or not someone will come here to invest. It has to do with, if you don't know, whether anyone here will open new jobs and that kind of perspective we provide for our people. We don't touch anyone, and we don't have the need, as they once did, this Gilas and that Jeremic, who, once again, didn't put us on any board of directors, and who they did, I ask you, remember, we didn't make the Statute of Vojvodina with any of them, and you remember who did. So none of them made these results, but they did literally degrade everything they touched. Today when you tell us that we represent some continuity with it, it's not just offensive. First of all, it's something that offends your words and everything else you say, and you say what's in place, which is completely lost in that worthlessness. Now think about if that makes sense. I don't want to spend all day reminding everyone here who's involved or participates, for example. in Old Town. To be fair enough, to be correct enough to say what's right for the state, what's right for the people, and once again every honor, we want to say that's good. If we were so honest and said, everyone would stand behind it. For what it's wrong to criticize to the will. Don't fight over the back of the people, convince someone to feel guilty about his job. It's not working, it's not correct. It's not human. After all, it's not something that brings good to this country. Is she our common goal and common interest? I want to believe, even if he was easy-minded, that he was. Then let's act like it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53806	Thank you. I'm just asking my colleagues to come back on the subject a little bit. I don't mind debates or replicas. The squirrel Radeta throws it away. It has nothing to do with anyone personally. The word has Vladimir Djukanovic after the amendment. Here's a colleague of Djukanovic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53807	I'm someone who really likes to debate and talk, I think it's very useful, there's no need for any hard words. I respect really the views of colleagues across the way as to what they stand for, because I don't know why someone should not know what to do now, which will say whether to enter or not to join the EU. Here, I am against Serbia's entry into the EU. I don't have the sight to say it at all, but I'm fair enough to say again that I would never campaign for such a thing. Why? I don't see anyone offering any alternative that you can have some other integral process to go to, and you need to be realistic. It's the same as when you offer, now you say, you want revisions, privatisations. As far as reviewing and privatisation are concerned. I agree, it would be great to do it, but there's only one small problem, such a small problem, but what's the key. That's what they were made under some law that was passed, let's say, in 2001 and I don't know now how you think, anyone who comes under attack is going to say -- I've been doing it by law. That's the problem you had here, so-called. A legalized robbery of the state, which is a scandal to call it that because it's a paradox in itself, but you had laws that were passed in the interest of some who were supposed to rob the state. And when he comes to court, he says, "No, no, I've done it by law, and you can't do anything to him." That's why there's a Criminal Code here where some people, most of all after what Verica Baraq put together those 24 privatisations, are responding and there's one in custody or they'll be convicted of what you have evidence of. But as for privatisation in Serbia in 2001, it was a clean criminal act. It was the sale of the state, the destruction of the state, but unfortunately it was done by law and that is what is a special scandal and of course that our best natural resources are used exclusively to sell out and to make someone reach a business space and make a fortune at it. But you know when you come to court, and he says, "I've been doing it by law." They did the most, and not only by law, but by regulations, under sublaws, so you had a government from 2008 to 2012, which, by regulation, robbed this society, made it possible to rob it through a regulation, literally, and this one when you call it to court, he says, "Here, there's a regulation, I was absolutely in line with the regulations." This is what is a big problem and I hope it will never happen in Serbia again. After all, to be honest, if this audit is now done, I don't know what the benefits would be, basically you don't have those factories anymore, they're destroyed, they're caught by spiders, they'll never be able to do again, you've got to make something new, you're standing there, you're taping in place, and you're always doing something that was 20 years ago. All right, I don't mind, let the authorities do it, but I'm telling you it's impossible to prove it for the simple reason anymore, because they'll always appeal to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53808	Thank you, fellow Djukanovic. The right to replica has Mr. Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53809	Here, let's try if it's possible to put an end to this topic initiated by fellow Orlic. The boards of directors, when the SRS was parliamentary in the city of Belgrade, reflect the composition of the city's parliament. Every single normal authority seeks to draw up the boards of directors to respond to the assembly in parliament. The one on the other hand, so it's not normal, she always wants to have a monopoly over it, but the membership of Serbian radicals on the board of directors was not decisive, it was only a mask for the democracy that was then conducted. As far as the Duke's statutes are concerned. That's the topic I want to explain to you. Take the records from all the boards, from the sessions, they have records, so you'll see who voted for it, you'll see who was against the statutes, and you'll see who did the quorum when a decision was made on the Legislative Committee. These are the manipulations that you serve today, and Bojan Pajtic used to serve with it. It's not worth it. The truth is inexorable, invincible. There are records, there are facts. Dragoslav Petrovic and Bojan Pajtic have given you mandates against the law, anti-constitutional, Serbian radicals, to weaken our radicals in the Vojvodina Assembly, so that the statute can be passed more easily. That's the point. The statute was passed in the Serbian Parliament where you are here, speaking for the ruling coalition, voted in favour of the statute. Don't push a coward's egg to someone else. You must carry that burden. I know how hard it is for you, but what to do to you, that's how we differ. You have to assess how much history this is going to evaluate, whether you're on this side or that side. We didn't kneel. As far as this logic is concerned, as Mr Djukanovic says. Look at the logic of things, we've been sold Sugar for a few euros. What are we supposed to say? Well, it is, in accordance with the existing law. It's not even in accordance with the law at the time. Why was it sold? Because the government has illegally adopted a regulation that frees the buyer of sugarcane, so it has acquired value, property for three euros. Secondly, the country that Todorovic bought from Croatia is a country that was once privatised, mostly on the territory of Vojvodina. How did this happen when it comes to Todorovic, when it comes to Agrokor? That's against the law. No, you don't want to get into it, because you're selectively acting, because Stanko Subotić, a Cane frog, is someone who's protected, and others who do much less dangerous work than he is, they're undesirable and they're being run against by a hack. You can't do that against crime.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53810	Thank you, colleague Mircic. Replication rights have been reported by deputy head of the parliamentary club, Dr. Vladimir Orlic, has the advantage. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53811	That's exactly what the quorum is about, and that's the problem. So to explain, it's gonna be hard, really hard. Whether you record it or not, that's gonna be hard to explain. So, not to me, but to people who were also in that meeting and who know it, because of what they know, it's impossible now that one sentence, as it were, that's not true, and I'm now saying that the point is almost, write failed. That way the kids can argue we can't. As for how creative it was, the composition of the boards of directors and supervisory boards is proportionally determined. I just can't remember when? When, except in the middle of that term, he calls it when Dragan Gilas said, "Ee," we'll do it like this from now on. And those offered by the boards and the boards of directors were better able to sit in them. Before that, it wasn't. After that, it wasn't. It wasn't even the beginning of that call, it was the moment when it seemed to determine who he wanted to help, and who he wouldn't, against who. Is that right? A few of us here had MPs from Belgrade who participated in it, so they say, yes, I was on studio B's board at the time, so what's wrong? He says I'm welcome to do it then, because I didn't have any other income. That's not the point, gentlemen. The point is what you've accepted and at what cost. So, what did you agree to and at what cost? You say manipulation, and people admit it themselves, that it was and that they were involved in it. I don't know who you're trying to trick, me, those people who admit it or themselves? Because the manipulation that today, or with support from that side, the Old Town, where that new vice president, Gilasov Bastac, is being burned and burned by the municipality, is being held today. Whose councilman helps him with that? Whose? I can't remember anything, but there are those who seem to remember things well, so maybe that'll help us figure it out here somehow. So, who cooperated with whom should be a problem for those who say they're not excited and have no problem with it. The number of decibels from their previous exposure I think it clearly speaks to how much they have or don't have a problem with it. It's a question of someone else's conscience. What I'm interested in is the question of the future of this country. On the question of the future of this country, 150,000 people on 19 April, here in front of this high house, said -- see what it should look like, he said he knew what he wanted, he said he wanted to build it, he wanted to build it not by trying to wash anyone's biographies, but by a clear plan, concrete ideas, and with a lot of work, because it is primarily necessary. He wants to follow Alexander Vukic and SNS in that vision, in those resolutions. Well, when you say Belgrade, Serbia, etc., it will say whether it buys or doesn't buy something. You were right about one thing, people in this country are politically written, people in this country are politically mature and don't fall for anything long ago. There's no talk of floscules, 57% of people on the day of today, in this country, just because it's serious, because it's wise and because it doesn't buy it, it says -- we support Alexander Vukic and SNS. I find the more convincing answer to who's right to discuss this or any other matter, believe me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53812	As chairman, I think we've gone quite far from the subject. It's not today's topic to talk about councilmen in Old Town, who, for, what and in the AP Vojvodina, their assembly. Please, especially since you're an opposition, my colleague Mircic, we can do this by midnight. I really don't mind, but we're discussing the interests of citizens who were in charge ten years ago in Swiss francs. Let's talk about it. I fully support the debate, I'm ready to sit with you as long as you want, but just please, really now in Old Town Councilors of the AP Vojvodina really no one, I don't think it's a subject and it's not right. Please, especially for your understanding. Thank you. On Article 16 of the amendment was filed by the National MP, Dr. Ivan Bauer. Does anyone want a word? (No) You'll talk about Bauer's amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53813	And the amendment of my colleague Bauer and that member who's before the last member because they're bonding to each other. So it's about the start of law enforcement and who's in charge of law enforcement. So the supervision of law enforcement is carried out by the National Bank of the Republic of Serbia. Now, I'd like the chairman to explain to me someone, there were stories of some proportions here, so that this proportion would look like. So we know that the authority that runs the National Bank is the Board of Governors. Imagine, applying that proportion to DS selecting one or two members of the Board of Governors. You know, it's a proportional ratio of the MPs to the National Assembly. But if we were to apply such a proportion most likely that one of the members of the Board of Governors might be my last name professor Arsic, right, is not my cousin of all happiness. It is an honor for him as a professor, but when he was a member of the Board of Governors of the National Bank of the Republic of Serbia in the period 2008 to 2012 she sold 4.5 billion euros in foreign reserves, and the euro, which is one of the reasons we are discussing this law, jumped from 76 dinar to 119,80. Now, would someone like one such member to be in the Board of Governors, while it was, if we had sold nearly five billion euros in foreign exchange reserves, and the euro jumped over 50%, and then jumped the Swiss franc from the euro to 40%, that's 90% or even 100% increased rates for credit users in Swiss francs. You see, this whole marifetteluk about loans indexed in the Swiss franc and the whole marifetteluk and the exchange rate dance, they made some dukes out of some former regime banks, and they want it again. I will say again to the Duke of Bozidar Djelic, the Duke of Meridian Bank. Award from the same bank with a 10m-euro equity stake in the bank. It's official that we can get that information. How much they got as board members, boards, congregations of these banks, we'll probably never know. We'll probably never know. How much was paid to them by other accounts outside the Republic of Serbia, we will also never know. But they got rich in the accidents of these people who took out loans, whether they were in euros or in the Swiss franc. They invented a reference interest rate that went up to 16% and thus made a perpetum of the mobile, in terms of printing money. So, the National Bank didn't print it, but in a jury form it appeared on the market and the surplus of that money had to end up somewhere, instead of going back and re-launching loans and turning the production consumer cycle, the mangoons were speculative, through these business banks buying euro and taking them out of the country. Now, you see how important supervision of financial institutions is, more importantly, who will conduct surveillance on behalf of the National Bank. Legal regulations, more and more, and then there was, but in the absence of supervision when the governors were Soskic, when the governor was Jelasic, did these financial speculative works in our financial system. Now, in that application of proportion, these gentlemen should again be in the Board of Governors. Imagine now another problem, if the principle of proportionality were applied to the government of the Republic of Serbia, imagine if one of them were to be a minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, this is the one that threatens to nationalize the PKK. What, to nationalize it, to sell it again and put a good distinction in his pocket, like he did the first time he broke up the PKK privatisation. We know why they're fighting for the PKK, because of the land, but not because of the agricultural land, God forbid, they don't think to catch the hoard, because they don't know what it looks like, but that agricultural land that has a chance to become city building land. That's why they're fighting for this power, to get their story back and get rich again. Now, since I was in no way involved in this, I would have kept my mouth shut if in any way it had been helped on my part, in any way, and I wouldn't have tried like a coward's egg to trick that part of my responsibility into someone else. So that's some normal way of thinking. The difference is clear, Šoštic, Jelasic, Đilas, sold foreign exchange reserves to save the dinar course as reportedly. The dinar course jumped from 76 to 119,80 dinars, so larger than today. Now that Yorvanka Tabakovic is leading the National Bank, foreign exchange reserves are increasing, the dinar course is stable, with reforms launched by Aleksandar Vukic in the business area, in the country's economic recovery, we also have stable growth and stable public finances. Now there's a story to make up, how it's not good, and I always ask the question – what's the state for? Whether a rich man like that was in the course of Gilas, Tadic, Bozidar Djelic, the duke of the “Meridian Bank” or the state serves to return funds collected from taxes in a certain way to citizens. One part of that money will be returned, for payment and recovery, the mitigation of the consequences of harmful loans, because the state that was then run by irresponsible people did not exercise its control properly. One part of the money goes to business subsidies. But I'm more fed up with that story, foreign investors, domestic investors, they're completely even. Here's the goal, I guess, to hire a man to get a job, to secure his family, to educate his children who will stay here, not to leave the country abroad. This story about the EU, the Eurasian Union, all of it, people, let's watch what's in our interest. Each of them has their own interests, both of them. And we need to safeguard the sole state of interest and only to take care of the state. The decisions we make must be exclusively in favour of the citizens and the state, not of anyone else. There are no other people living here, Serbian citizens living here. And according to them, the government is responsible and therefore the assembly majority supports the government, which is responsible for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. And those who wanted to take part because of their proportions, may it serve them honor. And I was proportionally, for example, in the Working Group for the making and writing of this Rules of Procedure. When I saw what kind of Rules of Procedure was going to be adopted here, I didn't want any part of it. So are the others. What were you involved in? You gave your identity, and now you're pouring ashes.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53814	Thank you, colleague Arsic. I must say, Mr. Mircic asked for a replica, but indeed Mr. Arsic did not insult anyone, nor did he mention by name and last name. The only one who might be able to take a replica, but not a member of parliament, is Bozidar Djelic. He doesn't have the right to do that. Since we have completed our review of the amendments, I have concluded the review of the draft law in detail. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We're moving on to - a proposal for a law supplementing the budget system. You have received amendments submitted by MPs on the bill: Verica Radeta, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić, Marijan Rističević, Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Alexic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stankovic. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The First Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Professor Miladin Ševarlic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Rističević, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53815	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm afraid of these Gilas aspirations for electronic media and now I'm touching this button very carefully. I think as they watch this transmission, those of the alliance of thieves, con men and angry men pray to God to electrocute me. But they're not that lucky, I'll survive. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it would be easy for me to feed the poor. But it's hard to feed these rich. They're sloppy. The poor, some part of the poor people's hands are stretched out and looking for little. To these rich, such as Djilas and Jeremic, reis efendi and wolf descendant, their hand is always stretched out, never enough for them. You don't need poor people to be ashamed of their poverty, but rich people like Gilas and wolf descendants, reis efendi, should be ashamed of their wealth, because they came to him in an unfair way. They're trying to revolutionize the millionaires against the millions, those millions they brutally robbed. Dragan Gilas is a major exporter of money. He's exporting our money and he's not returning anything. So it's one of the biggest exporters, but it doesn't export any product, except it exports money, money it earns while 400 or 500 thousand people are out of work. Best fog dealer. A man who is against "Begrada on Water" because he stood up for Belgrade in the fog. In that fog he grabbed what had arrived, so, let's say, the bridge on Ada cost, and to remind him that even Vlado Georgiev was involved in the construction of the bridge in Beški, believe it or not, the performer of works on the bridge in Beška was Vlado Georgiev. So these fog dealers want to rob another people. Rich people can show nothing but that they hate their people, because that people remind them of the ugly way they got rich. I claim, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, that the rich people like jitler, Dragan Gilas and Wolf reis efendi, the wolf of the offspring, have nothing but fear of losing him from their wealth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53816	Thank you, colleague Risticevic. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Here you are, colleague Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53817	Just a brief review of some of the discussions that were just here. There was everything and everything, and there was a lot of untruth, but some other time we're going to do it anyway, mostly by reducing the number of unemployed because of the new methodology. Our expert teams are working on accurate data, so we're going to go public with that and we're going to cover up that eulogy story, how many people have been hired. We know well what happens in the field, where 500 people are promised, and then it's said, there will be 100 in the first run, so 100 of them only 30 go to training. So, Serbia is not a closed box and anyone who deals with politics and who wants to know what's really going on on the ground, it's great to know. But it was also said here that "folksvagen" might come to Serbia. The other day there was news that "folksvagen" would come to Icarbus. And here, we're now asking, if "Folkswagen" comes to "Icarbus", where will you drive out "Mercedes", because it was "Mercedes" four or five years ago? Or was it also a big delusion? Of course it is. As far as this bill is concerned, you, Minister, have proposed that since 1 May preschool institutions increase salaries equally with the rest of the education system and that this increase be 9%. And that's okay, we have nothing against that increase. But we're telling you, increase all budget users who weren't at 9% to that percent of 9%. Because what you're doing is pure volunteerism. It comes to your mind - now we're going to increase this one, now we're going to increase this one and you're going to say - you can't accept our amendment because the increase in other budget users' salaries according to the current solution is already defined and is 7%. What's the definition? By the Holy Scriptures, by the Constitution, what is it defined by? By law? Well, you change the law, you tell one group to increase to 9%, we say we increase everyone and then you say that would lead to the percentage of the increase in these users being, it says -- it's determined by law in different percentages. But we don't want it to be in different percentages. You have to tell us why you won't accept something, to give us an argument. It's not an argument - they told me like this and it can't change. That's not an argument. We think there's a lot of opportunities beyond what you're boasting about with your budget, etc., that there's a lot of possibilities, a lot of resources, where you could really help these people in the public sector, because this salary increase that was a few months ago is lost, almost gone, and that's a fact, as well as an increase in pensions and your promise to increase pensions when you think of it. You refused to let it be regulated by law. So there's a lot to talk about. Now we ask you, since Minister Mali said he would deliver to the National Assembly for consideration and the adoption will end the budget, do you know, since you are approaching the "Exit" again, did you get the final account "Exit"? There are funds of both the Republic and the New Sad and the provinces, huge funds given to private, private, organised by the "Exit"? Do you have a final bill, in your final account, how much money did any agencies eat? How much money's gone to all kinds of...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53818	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53819	Just one sentence.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53820	Of course.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53821	... various NGOs. We have calculated that it is more than one million euros. So, first of all, we're talking about NGOs now working to bring down your government. It is those who meet with the Clintons, with Brammertz, etc. when they come to Serbia or when they come to Serbia's AP Kosovo and Metohija. These are the Fund for Some Extraordinaryness, So Some Initiative for Extraordinaryness, So Kandićka, etc. You're funding all of this, and we just want you to tell us, and this is really the last line, we want you to tell us -- how much is it, and why don't you grant those funds to everyone who has so far, to budget users who haven't been paid by 9%, to make it 9%? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53822	Thank you, colleague Radeta. According to the amendment, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go, colleague Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53823	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think that with these amendments and additions to the Budgetary System Law, we would correct not one injustice, but equalise the status of employees in school and preschool institutions, we would allow them to raise wages. As is already known, the means for such a thing have. It wasn't privatisation, it wasn't full of budget by selling out some assets, there was no credit that would encourage public spending and pay off current government obligations, as it used to be. The money that the state has obtained by paying taxes from the economy and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but most importantly, money is not from "the aunt's couch", as it was while the minister was "the duke of Meridian Bank", Bozidar Djelic. Now, Mr. Minister, I guarantee you that by any chance Boris Tadic, Đilas, Pajtic, Sutanovac, hypothetically, here I guarantee you by the first plane "the Duke of Meridian Bank" is on "the aunt's couch". On the first plane. But since he had already emptied his "aunt's couch" through the screening once, through foreign exchange loans, he would have found another one called the Republic of Serbia's budget, so again with that same click he would have done what he did when he first was a minister, and it was written by the laws, making legislation so that he could steal or similar to him and not respond at all to the law. That is why, Mr. Minister, it is commendable that you are passing laws that are in the interest of citizens, because in the elections these citizens who vote for MPs and some future government, who opt to whom they will trust their future and thus prevent "the Duke of the Meridian Bank" from being a minister again and sleeping on "the aunt's couch".
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53824	Thank you, colleague Arsic. The People's MP, Prof. Miladin Ševarlic, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed a search on all amendments, I conclude the examination of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 6th item of the agenda - Proposal for a guarantee law of the Republic of Serbia in favour of the "Sosiot General" Bank of Serbia a.d., "Comercial Banks" a.d. and "Vojvodjanska Banka" a.d. Novi Sad under the responsibility of JP "Srbigas" Novi Sad, based on a loan agreement for the construction of a pipeline on the territory of the Republic of Serbia from the border with the Republic of Bulgaria to the border with Hungary and other neighbouring countries with the Republic of Serbia through investment in the capital of the Stock Society South Stream Serbia. Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle, and since no amendments have been submitted to the bill, the National Assembly will agree to Article 160(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in voting day decide only on the draft law in general. We move to the 7th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Employment of Foreigners. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Marijan Risticevic, Petar Jojic, Ružica Nikolic, Vjerica Radeta, Sreto Peric, Tomislav Ljubenović and Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to review the draft law in particular. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go, colleague Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53825	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted this amendment to Article 2 and I remain with the reasons for this amendment and I propose to the Assembly that this amendment be adopted. The Serbian Radical Party particularly wants to point out that it is not against the employment of foreigners when it comes to technical or scientific co-operation. However, the SRS points out that the previous government in all the systems and pores and the Government of the Republic of Serbia has hired, whether by contract or continuously, experts who have come to prepare the laws for us, to be experts, to be scientists, especially when it comes to the Ministry of Defence, what Mr. Djordjevic, who is present, knows best. The previous government, the "yellows" have hired and allowed spies to enter all resolutions, those who will act against the Republic of Serbia system through various visions and co-operation with internal affairs authorities, advisers, instructors, were at the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and also at the Ministry of Justice. What were they doing and what are they doing in those vaults? When it comes to the Ministry of Justice, I must say that I am appalled when I know that this ministry has received expert advisors from the United States that those in Serbia are prescribing our Anglo-Saxon law, and there are plenty of them from Europe. They are now laying down draft laws for us to come before the government and before the National Assembly. Therefore, in the control and consent related to the reception of foreigners, the consent of the BIA must be obtained. The BIA has better mechanisms, and here with the help of members of the MUP.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53826	Thank you, colleague Jojic. The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the 3rd Amendment. Here you are, colleague Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53827	As far as the SRS is concerned, our view is that conditions for hiring foreigners and domestic people, our people, should be even. You have here suggested that a working employment permit be issued to foreigners who have a visa for a longer stay based on employment. We suggested that it be deleted, because this long-stay visa implies a six-month visa, and we think it's pointless to hire someone here and every six months he has to ask for that work permit. Our proposal is that it be a year, at least a year. When we proposed this, we took care, first of all, of the real situation, and the real situation is that many people, our people from Republika Srpska, are being hired here, and we think that these people, therefore, all of them, and above all these people who work most in the Republic of Serbia, need to actually create some normal conditions that they don't have to do every minute, because six months is literally every minute you have to collect papers, documentation, to go from tents to tents. You didn't digitize anything, it's just Anna Brnabic promised, so the brother probably didn't get there, but he'll get there slowly. So, we suggested that the amendment correct it, and it would be good if you'd taken it well, but you're not, again, with a very interesting explanation. Let me see what you're saying. You do not accept the amendment because it does not contribute to improving the proposed text of the law. E, the wave contributes, and to improving the text and improving the conditions for those foreigners whom we want to create as best conditions as possible and as equal as possible to our citizens. We don't want anyone to come here under any pressure, a man from Republika Srpska wants to work, come to the Republic of Serbia, to his future common state, whichever. We don't mind. We want to give him... What are you looking at me like that for, Mr. Marinkovic? Because of what I said to the Republic of Serbia and Republika Srpska? Well, it's all part of the great Serbia, and if God does, one day, for our lives, believe me. God will give us life alone. So, you in this, you can say a few sentences about again, what the government deputies were talking about, and when it comes to high employment and some high unemployment reduction rate, I think, first of all, you Minister Djordjevic, that you know that these are not accurate data, that there are financial data due to the changed methodology applied by the Employment Fund. I said already, we're going to go out with precise data, first of all for the public, we're not going to talk to you, you know that. But don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't. I'm done, Mr. Marinkovic. After all, I said earlier, they see people on the ground, when a factory opens, 2,000 employees are promised on TV, and then they say it'll be in a few years, they're actually employed by 20 to 50 people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53828	Thank you. And I wasn't looking at you strangely. I was just smiling. The People's MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53829	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Foreign Employment Act was adopted on 28 June 2018, and today, after 10 months, we have changed this law again. We are then, but also every time the laws are amended and amended, we say that we need to pass a whole new law, which will be good and applicable, not every few months to make certain changes. That, of course, applies to this bill, which the congregation majority adopted last year. Article 3 The draft law prescribes the issue of a work permit for hiring foreigners who have a visa for a longer period of time based on employment. The reason for the adoption of this law is, as you have stated, because of preventing the harmful consequences of the work of the authorities and organisations, then, according to the budget of the Republic of Serbia, that is to say, to simplify administrative procedures when issuing permits for the work of foreigners. This was, of course, supposed to be, that is, the way you had to be guided and the last time changes and additions were made, because it obviously proved in the past 10 months that there were more negative and harmful consequences during the application of this law. The amendment to Article 3 which we have submitted concerns work permits for employment. We have asked for Article 16(2) of the current law to be deleted, because it has proved to be a bad practice to give the minister the authority that this member prescribes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53830	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 4th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53831	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the coming period, I think our country will need more and more labour. Free flow of goods, services and people leads to certain municipalities being debilitated in the workforce. In particular, we in agriculture are grateful to employees, to those who do Polish work, whether they are foreigners or domestic labour. Now, the time has come for investment, and investment depends on the government, what ambience is being created, a country without economy is a car without motors and gearboxes. A car like that can only go downhill. During this yellow power, we had exactly the kind of situation that this joint car of ours only went downhill, because it had no gearbox, no engine. A country without investment is a car without gasoline. If there are no investments, no new technologies, no GDP growth, no standards growth, all countries are directly, including our country, dependent on investment. That's why it's not right for Bosko Ljotic, Đilas, Jeremic to force and do everything to drive foreign investors out of our country, very well knowing what I'm saying right now, that there are no new technologies without investments, no new knowledge, no new money, no new GDP growth. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Gilas and his party, freedom and justice, act as though they were the owners of a political system. Gilas has more companies, though. One is called the Democratic Party, which is just what is called, and which I am not fighting because it is democratic, but because it has stopped being democratic, and another party of freedom and justice is just another one of its firms.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53832	Thank you. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 4th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53833	Mr. Minister, with the modernisation of our legal regulations regarding the employment of foreigners, you should think more intensively about how to get our citizens who went abroad as soon as possible and under more favourable conditions back to their homeland. I'm sure you've heard more than once that in the 1960s last century, a largely unprofessional workforce was leaving Serbia. Lately, this has been particularly expressed since the beginning of the 21st century, and more and more professionals are leaving, according to the most professional. For what? For reasons they don't have here conditions that they have secured abroad. And now, to regulate the field of foreign employment, that's all it takes. We have nothing against it, even what you are going in some direction to provide certain conditions for them, and it can be accepted, but there is one situation that is practical and it appears in municipalities in Serbia, along the Drina River, perhaps in other places. I know Bajina Basta, Ljubovija, Mali Zvornik, Loznica, Krupanj, Bogatic, Šabac, maybe Sremska Mitrovica. There, the citizens of Republika Srpska have exactly the same status and treatment as foreigners from EU member states, and you in one part of this law have in a special way and regulated, and pointed out that and under what conditions they will be able to obtain work permits, i.e. to regulate the employment of foreigners from those countries. Here we should take one step and allow our people to be employed under conditions that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia do. Some factories, economic operators are forced by lack of labour, adequate, to hire and employ those from Republika Srpska, but cannot be reported unless they have the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia. They can be hired for temporary and occasional jobs, they're not doing their job, and their obligations are all as if they're employed, as if they have permanent employment. Do you remember, Mr. Minister, and you would have to remember, because it was in the government when it came to the Tourism Act, that persons from EU countries who meet other conditions, in terms of profession, could be employed as Serbian citizens, and nowhere does it say that a Serb from Republika Srpska has the same status? If they did something on the plan, it would probably make it easier for citizens to regulate their working-law status. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53834	Thank you very much, colleague Perich. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53835	Thank you, Chairman. Amendment to Article 7. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Employment of Foreigners, the SRS parliamentary group proposed to amend this member. Article 7 of the Proposer wishes to amend Article 23 of the basic law relating to the work permit for employment. The SRS parliamentary group has proposed this amendment to Article 23 of the basic law in paragraph 2 and that, by now it will read, demonstrate that it has the appropriate qualifications to carry out concrete activities in the event of the registration of the competent authorities. Our opinion is that a foreigner who intends to deal with entrepreneurship in the Republic of Serbia should not commit himself in the way that it is prescribed in an existing member of the law. Representatives of the government of the Republic of Serbia who came out with this proposal as a basic reason for the adoption of this law to specify the provisions of the law, which simplify the procedures for issuing work permits, and in order to further develop a more favourable business environment and attract foreign investment. Now that these amendments to the law are passed, there should be one more important thing in mind. The text of the law needs to be adopted as much as possible, because in a few years Serbia will really need more foreigners to work, because if this trend continues, young and educated people from Serbia, who have been present for the past few years, the only solution will be to hire foreigners. Most Serbian youth and brains are looking for and finding their jobs out of Serbia, as there are much more favourable working conditions everywhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53836	Thank you, colleague Ljubenović. National MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic submitted to the 8th amendment. Does anyone want a word? National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 9th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53837	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we all know how Bill Gates came into wealth, among other things using foreign labour, but he gave 95% of his wealth to the poor. Dragan Gilas has kidnapped more than 95% of his wealth from the poor. I don't mind collecting five million people and what they stand for in the protests. It would be my turn that like Bill Gates, who undoubtedly earned that money, to give each of them 100 euros each. That's exactly the 500m euros he robbed from those same citizens and now a multimillionaire, a rich man, is calling millions to the revolution. Ladies and gentlemen, it's not right that he only gives Marinika and Boskic. It would be all right to share your enormous wealth. Bostic should know, as a Orthodox, that he is free of material wealth if he is spiritually bankrupt. Boškić Ljotic, Vuk Jeremic, reis efendija Vuk descendant and others are no longer thinking with their head, but with their wallet. So, they should know they're spiritually bankrupt, but Bosic and his team are only important that they don't get any change from Gilas. That's why I say that before he broke up Serbian Dvora Bosic Ljotic, he had this sign, three joined fingers in the name of Orthodoxism, and now it's important for him not to get any change from Gilas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-23-0.u53838	Thank you, colleague Risticevic. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. I want to thank you for today's work. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10:00 p.m. Thank you.
