ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54721	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the sixth session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sittings are attended by 84 MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., please insert your identification cards into the MPs. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 128 MPs are present in the hall. Today, I was informed that the sittings would not be attended by MPs Djordje Milicevic and Dejan Radenkovic. In accordance with Article 86(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I would like to inform you that this session has been convened within a short period of time than laid down in Article 86(1), because of the need for the Assembly to consider the proposals for acts in the proposed agenda of the sitting as soon as possible. You were presented with a draft agenda for this session. We're moving on to reviewing the acts by emergency procedure. The government proposed putting the draft decision on the use of Serbia's military and other defence forces in multinational operations outside the borders of the Republic of Serbia, following an urgent procedure. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote: for – no one, against – one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the motion for a decision to suspend the role of the President of the Court in the courts of general and special jurisdiction in the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote: for – 126, against – no one, abstention – one. I find that the Assembly has accepted this proposal. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the motion for a decision to suspend the office of the President of the Criminal Court in Krusevec. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote: for – 129 against – no one, abstention – one. I find that this proposal has been accepted. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has proposed that an emergency procedure should be put on the agenda of the motion for a decision to suspend the functions of the President of the Court of Justice at the Court of Justice in Piroth. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote: for – 129 against – no one, abstention – one. I find that this proposal has been accepted. National MP Professor Miladin Ševarlic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a declaration on genetically modified organisms and products from GMOs. Do you want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54722	Thank you, President. Happy birthday to you, I'm sorry I didn't bring the bell to announce that everyone knows it's your birthday. I'm also sorry that you won't let me bring in a picture of the Blue Grave to give you as a birthday present. Therefore, it is a proposal for a roof declaration on GMOs and products from GMOs that I proposed on 5 May 2017, since then, although in this room more than half of the MPs of 250 voted for the 2009 GMO law at the time, regardless of which they changed party colors and you are no longer in the SRS and there is no reason not to respect the unanimous decision of around 7,000 council members in 136 municipalities and cities. Now I want to show you how you genetically modify us with legal regulations. This is the original name of the 6th point of the Law on the Change and Completion of the Food Safety Act. I consulted the SANU Institute of Serbian Language and they told me that this is an unsustainable legal formulation, and given that genetically modified food in the first part of the definition of this point has no explicit name to which it refers, and on the second part genetically modified animal food. So this is where animals are favored in relation to humans. Why are you ashamed to avoid stating that the first part of this gender group is genetically modified food for the people of Serbia? Also, the second part lists food that has no name of anything, or suffix of which it is neither for nor for anyone, while animal food is indicated to have been obtained from genetically modified organisms. It's the way laws are passed. I also remind you of another law, which is the War Memorial Act when we adopted amongst other things and mentioned the marking of war memorials, and that concentration camps are not the mark of war memorials, because they allegedly belong to other victims. Can't this National Assembly really find formulas that are linguistically and legislatively correct? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54723	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—17, against—there is no one. I find that this proposal has not been adopted. We are now moving on to additions to the agenda of MPs who boycott the session's work. The MP Tatjana Macura suggested that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Referendum and People's Initiative. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote. No one joined the vote. The MP Tatjana Macura suggested that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Financial Support for the Family with Children. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote. No one joined the vote. I just want to explain to the citizens of Serbia that the proposings are not in the hall and are proposing an addition to the agenda and that is why no one will join the vote. It's time for the promoter to come and explain his proposal. Parliament's Tatjana Macura suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Territorial Organisation of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to put the motion by MP Vladimir Đurić to supplement the agenda of the session to the point of the draft law on the regulation of the public debt of the Republic of Serbia on the name of the pension reduction under the Law on the provisional way of determining pension payments. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I would like to put to the vote the motion by Ambassador Aleksandar Stevanovic to supplement the session's agenda to the point of the Bill amending the Criminal Code. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to put to the vote the motion by Parliamentarian Aleksandar Stevanovic to supplement the agenda of the session to the point of the draft law amending the Law on Public Order and Peace. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I am putting on the vote by MP Zoran Zivkovic to supplement the agenda of the session to the point of the draft law supplementing the Government Act. He's gone. There's no proposal. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I am putting on the vote by MP Zoran Zivkovic to supplement the session's agenda to the point of the draft law amending the Labour Act. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting on the vote by MP Zoran Zivkovic to supplement the agenda of the session to the point of the draft law supplementing the law on the election of the President of the Republic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting on the vote by MP Zoran Zivkovic to supplement the session's agenda to the point of the draft law supplementing the Law on the selection of MPs. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting on the vote by MP Zoran Zivkovic to supplement the agenda of the session to the point of the Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Higher Education. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting the vote on the proposal by Zoran Zivkovic to supplement the agenda of the session to the point Proposal for a Resolution of the National Assembly on the recognition and condemnation of genocide against Armenians committed in the Ottoman Empire between 1915 and 1922. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting on the vote by MP Zivkovic's proposal to supplement the session's agenda to the point of the draft law supplementing the Law on the selection of MPs. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to put to the vote MEP Zivkovic's proposal for the session's agenda to be complemented by the point of the draft law amending the Law on the financing of political activities. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I would like to put to the vote MEP Zivkovic's proposal to supplement the session's agenda to the point of the draft law on planning and arrangement of space and settlement. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting on the vote by MEP Zivkovic to complete the agenda with the proposal for a decision on the education of the Committee to determine the facts and circumstances that led to the illegal withdrawal of the work permit of the Action Society for Insurance "Such Insurance", Kragujevac. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. National MP Nemanja Sarovic suggested that the session's agenda be complemented by a point-by-point proposal for a decision on the education of the Committee to determine the facts regarding the murder and the political background of the murder of Zoran Djindjic. Do you want a word? Yeah. ) Here you are, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54724	Ladies and gentlemen, here's who knows which time, on behalf of the SRS, we explain this proposal and despite the fact that you all often pursue Zoran Djindjic, when you can have concrete political benefits or think that you can benefit from him in concrete political ways. However, you have consistently and persistently refused that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which would once and for all establish facts and circumstances related to its murder and, more importantly, to direct perpetrators that the Survey Committee determines facts related to the political background of the murder of Zoran Djindjic. If the Prime Minister was killed, it is clear that it is not just a murder and it is quite clear that someone is behind it. It is clear that there is a political background. It is striking that even his closest associates, those who have profited directly and most from his death, never even wanted to touch who is the inspiration and who is the commander of the murder of Zoran Djindjic. At that time, after just a few hours, the government declared a certain group of people conspirators for the murder of Zoran Djindjic, several people were declared his killers. They were liquidated and taken to Meljak, where there was a play with a machine gun, with a wooden coat, several bombs, and all those weapons stood unused. What is also a very important element and which points to a crime added to this, is the fact that no huge assets were ever found that this criminal group was accused of killing him. We have heard countless claims from the state summit that they made millions of euros a month, that they profited from drug sales and various other types of criminal activities, at the time the head of the DOS parliamentary group, Cedomir Jovanovic, the house in Schiller was torn down to remove evidence and never wanted any regimes to deal with the essence, and the essence is exactly who did it.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54725	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: nine MPs voted in favour, and no proposal was accepted. Ambassador Sarovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the proposal for a decision on the education of the Committee of Auditors to determine the facts and circumstances regarding pressures on state authorities and violations of the law during elections for MPs in the National Assembly held in 2016. Do you want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54726	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's another topic from which your regime regularly flees. We have heard countless times from your MPs and from the top state authorities that Ambassador Scott, who pushed two parliamentary groups, or two electoral lists into this National Assembly, and that despite the election day, I repeat on election day, they did not get enough votes that it then came under pressure from the West, above all from the US Embassy that there were certain changes. What you are avoiding to confess in front of Serbian citizens is the fact that these people did not have a majority, I am talking about parliamentary lists that later and against law and against constitutional entry into the Assembly, that they did not have a majority in RIK. The majority and repeat elections in ten polling stations, in order to profit the two lists in the re-vote and cross-censorship, were provided by the ruling majority. And that's something that's a fact, which is documented, and you're all trying to avoid. We know that soon before the next elections, the stories of irregularities will begin again. We in the SRS have always been consistent to the end when it comes to similar cases, and today we only warn that as long as such practice is cleared up, it is inevitable that such things are repeated in the next election. I think that, above all, whoever is in power cares about the elections being legitimate and can only be legitimate if they are implemented in accordance with the law and in accordance with the highest principles of democratic practice. By 2000, we had elections that were particularly democratic compared to what was being followed by the "Buldozer of Revolution" after 2000. At that time, the freedom of the media was far greater, at the time we had a situation that the regulars were the TV duels between the authorities and the opposition. I will remind you of this famous duel between Zoran Djindjic and Dr Vojislav Seselj, which was held at the cinema "Rex" and where even before a large number of those present, this television, political, pre-election TV duel was performed in front of a live audience. Something like that is unimaginable today.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54727	Time. I'm putting your proposal to the vote. Finalising vote: for – 15 MPs. I find the proposal not accepted. National MP Bozidar Delic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on the rights of fighters and families of dead and missing fighters. Do you want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's Messenger, Bozidar Delic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54728	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is this the 15th or 16th time that I suggest that, finally, 28 years before this assembly, one law is found necessary and necessary, which is a law that regulates the rights of fighters. When I think of the rights of fighters, I primarily think of the right of fighters to be treated, since there are a large number of them, although they were young people at the time, and today they are in their 40s, a large number of them are sick, most of them are unemployed and have no chance of being treated. We had a draft last year that the government gave and she mentioned fighters in that draft. However, a public debate is now being held under another draft. In 13 Serbian cities, half of the cities have already been visited, but, behold, I can inform you that wartime military disableds and fighters, or veterans, have not adopted this bill in any city. The task force, which was usually made last year, for the making of laws in both the first and second cases, had already received drafts and only made remarks. I don't know, gentlemen of the ruling majority, how you and the way you think and think about fighters, but you have to agree that for 28 years, however, a long period, that 28 years here in this assembly were people's representatives and that they never remembered that this category of people who are respected don't devote so much time to legally regulate their status. This draft, which is now in office, is satisfied only with Natasa Kandic. Everything she wanted entered that bill. So, here's the first time we've got them mixed up, what we say in the people, frogs and grandmothers. In addition to the war people with disabilities, there are now civilian war people and civilian war victims, who have otherwise had their own law and who have exercised their rights under that law. Fully equalized are the war invalids and the civilian disabled and the civilian victims of the war. Natasa Kandic is still not satisfied with the status that civil war victims are regulated in law, and also, related to civil disabled wars, as the law stipulates they must have a disability of 50 per cent and more.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54729	Thank you. Time. I'm putting the motion to a vote. Finalising vote: for – 26 MPs. I find the proposal not accepted. National MP Vjerica Radeta proposed that the session agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a Law amending the Family Law. Do you want a word? (Yes) The word of the People's Messenger is the Prophet of the Prophet of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54730	Since the proposal is in the hall and the proposal is excellent, we expect the ruling majority to vote on these proposals. I'm surprised these last ones didn't. Since October, we have been trying to convince the assembly majority to put certain draft laws on the agenda with topics that are extremely current in the state of Serbia. We have seen some evidence appear these days, that some children have been stolen in time, that is, sold from maternity, and more and more are being said on the subject, but we have a problem, it is absolutely, of course, illegal, but we have a problem that in Serbia family law allows for the fact that legal trafficking of children, which is through this kind of adoption of children by people abroad. We have since the very beginning since the law was passed, been absolutely against it and now we think it's really time to take and not just because of that member, but otherwise to discuss this law, to change and when it comes to this member, but also when it comes to social work centres and foster families, which is a big problem. More and more children are taken from poor parents, given to foster families, and then through various channels that are already well, unfortunately, stalkers, these children from foster families are sent abroad for adoption. The reasons why social work centres take children away from their parents are mostly due to family poverty, and then foster families that are perfectly tied to certain people in social work centres, foster families receive a monthly benefit that is greater than guaranteed earnings in Serbia. We think that the problem would be solved by the fact that that money would be, in fact, directed to those parents, and then your parents with those 30,000 dinars would be able to feed their children monthly, the children would grow up in their natural environment, and there would be no fear that they would be the subject of trade. So what was imagined as human activity, these foster families, turned into crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54731	Time. Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. Final vote: -18. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Vjerica Radeta suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Selection of National MPs. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the People's Messenger is the Prophet of the Prophet of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54732	Also, since October, we have been suggesting that there be some way to overcome the anomalies of the law on the selection of MPs created by the amendments to that law, which I recall was adopted in 2002 on the SRS proposal and that law was then voted by all the political parties that were in the National Assembly. Then it occurred to someone that this law should be changed to fit the current congregation majority and the new party that was then formed, and then it was counter-constitutional in the Law that MPs had their mandates, and then today we have a papacy in the National Assembly. It is not known who belongs to any parliamentary group, nor who has come from which parliamentary lists to the National Assembly, so today we have 20 MPs who do not belong to any MP group, and all 20 have entered this assembly from some election list. This must absolutely change to restore dignity to the National Assembly, in order to make political life serious in the Republic of Serbia, because this, indeed flying over, trade in terms of mandates, is the most serious form of corruption and we need to get in the way. Declaratively, lately, in the last particularly year, representatives of all political parties have been talking about it as a negative phenomenon, but the assembly majority will not accept that this bill is being put on the agenda, so let's talk, let's see, you might have some amendments, some additions. We are open to talking, but it is important that the possibility for the MP to make his mandate available to the political party on the list on which he was elected, to return again as a provision in the Law on the selection of MPs, which is literally a provision written in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and only needs to be prescribed into the law. We must also change that this is now regulated, that the Electoral Commission is literally setting up MPs in order to determine in advance, it is also negatively reflected in the overall political life in Serbia, and then people in certain municipalities are wondering if one of them will ever be a national MP. Of course, the MP represents all voters, no matter where the MP is, from which place the voters are from. But simply in order for this election campaign to be run properly, it is really necessary for this member of the law to change as well. Maybe a few more media presentation members, but put it on the agenda, so we can really seriously edit this matter.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54733	Thank you, colleague Radeta. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 16, no one, abstentioned, has a total of 141 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - Proposal for a Law on Putting Off the Force of the Labour Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. Does MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: for nine, no one, the abstentioned, has a total of 141 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. Does the People's Messenger Natasha Sp. Jovanovic wants a word? Yeah. ) The word is Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54734	It is necessary to change this member of the law primarily because of the Serbs from Montenegro, because they have been suffering an incredible terror for 12 years by the mafia anti-Serbian government of Milo Djukanovic. The case of Vladan Jokic, the mayor of Kotor, who almost lost not only his Montenegrin passport but also his family members who applied for Serbian citizenship, and the Montenegrin anti-Serbian government found it out, is only one in a series of examples of how Serbs hardly survive under such authority and how their rights are threatened in the 21st century. The intensity of this law was at the time of its adoption in 2007, and with one amendment that was accepted by our reaction, the SRS, that all Serbs, no matter where they live today, were in any of the former Yugoslav republics, the most of them in Montenegro, Republika Srpska, as well as those in the diaspora, required, by this member we are asking to change, to accept the Republic of Serbia as their country of origin and to make such a statement through them and with the following documentation as soon as possible that the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia... (Vojislav Seselj: If Serbs are by nationality. () Yes, if the Serbs are by nationality. That is, therefore, a condition, because they declare it in that statement – that they are members of the Serbian nation. But what happened? It has happened that since the adoption of such a law, administrative barriers and procedures have taken so long that many people have been waiting for citizenship for two and more years. Now the average is two and a half years and the fact that Republika Srpska has 54 thousand, for now, requires them to have an impossible mission to exercise their basic rights. Many of them have graduated from colleges, secondary schools in the Republic of Serbia. Many of them have also received certain specializations. Many of them are also scholarships, and they cannot establish a working relationship and, to make the paradox bigger, they are treated like any other stranger after three months of stay. They must leave the Republic of Serbia, return here again and continue to work on some sort of work contract. Do this, because there is no reason, there is no need to give more time to either the MUP or the BIA, unless some of the cases they know are high-risk, that within six months they are not checked out and that the regional unit of the MUP does not give citizenship, or a certificate based on which someone who wants to do so, and Serbian is national, wrote in our citizens' book.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54735	Thank you, Mrs. Jovanovic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—16, against—no one, the abstentioned, has a total of 141 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Ruzica Nikolic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the transplantation of human organs, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. The word has the People's MP Ruzica Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54736	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Law on the Transplanting of Human Authorities has introduced an assumed agreement that makes every full-time citizen of Serbia a potential donor, or organ donor, unless it is declared verbally or in writing by the Biomedicine Authority. As a reason for the introduction and adoption of such a law, you listed an increase in the number of transplant bodies. However, organ donation should and must be an expression of our free will and our free choice, because it is the only way to achieve the desired effect, not if it is a legal obligation. We of the SRS have submitted amendments to this law proposing that the assumed consent be abolished, i.e. we propose an amendment to Article 23 of this Law, which we suggest that the authorities may be taken for transplant purposes from a full-time citizen of the Republic of Serbia only if he has declared during his life that he wants to be a donor, and not that we assume he does not want to be a donor just because he has not applied to the Biomedicine Authority. We also submitted an initiative to the Constitutional Court for the assessment of the constitutionality of Article 23. The law on human organ transplants, because this particular article violates Article 23 and Article 25. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and we expect the Constitutional Court to make the only right decision, which is that Article 23 does not comply with Articles 23 and 25. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia and that this will prevent further damage to the application of this law from continuing to violate the constitution. We also pointed out the possibility of abuse and trafficking in organs, because the assumed consent leaves great space, although the law explicitly prohibits any organ trafficking and is considered a serious criminal offence. In order to increase the number of organ donors, the Ministry of Health, as well as a complete society, should work to promote donorship, as this will only increase the number of voluntary organ donors in Serbia and that is the only way to achieve the desired effect. So, only with a positive campaign and a promotion of donorship can the number of transplant bodies increase, because the new body certainly means a new life to someone, and this will not be achieved by such a law that violates the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54737	Thank you, colleague Nikolic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is none of the 141 people's MPs against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Filip Stojanovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Border Control, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. Here you go, colleague Stojanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54738	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted a bill on amendments to the Law on Border Control and I demand that it be included in today's session agenda. It is known to all that the most important characteristics of each country are its internationally recognised borders that separate it from other countries, or its neighbours. The state of Serbia has defined and internationally recognised borders towards its neighbours. The Serbian state's borders towards its southern neighbour, or Albania, have been defined by UN Security Council Resolution 1244. Unfortunately, Serbia is one of the few countries that has violently kidnapped part of the territory by 19 NATO-Pax states, as well as some other states that want to legalise the state of occupation and that Kosovo's and Metohija's borders, according to the rest of Serbia, are declared international borders. We in the SRS are aware of the circumstances under which this occurred. We do not blame the current regime for the situation of Kosovo and Metohija, but we blame it for something else. Namely, the leading authorities of the Republic of Serbia must constantly insist on Resolution 1244, which guarantees the integrity of the state territory of the Republic of Serbia. But so far, we have not seen this regime insist on Resolution 1244 and we find that inadmissible. I remind you that according to this resolution, Serbia has the right to deploy 1,000 members of its security forces at the border towards Albania. As a man who was born in Kosovo and Metohija, who spent his entire life downstairs due to the violent exodus, I will always ask all regimes to insist on respecting Resolution 1244. This team before the international circumstances slowly change in our favour and I am convinced that we will not wait long for the day when Kosovo and Metohija will be re-integrated with the rest of the Republic of Serbia. If God does, through my Gjilans, there will be Serb trumpets and the famous Gjilanka. Therefore, there should be no compromise on state territory while all other topics can be discussed with Albanians, who you can see that the Republic of Croatia is also showing unhindered aspirations towards the part of our territory, located on the left bank of the Danube. On this point, the regime must be uncompromising, not agreeing to any negotiations or arrangements on this subject. That is why we believe that by adopting such a law as I have proposed, it will create clear assumptions and necessity as soon as possible to put the occupied part of our territory under our full control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54739	Thank you, colleague Stojanovic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—16, against—no one, the abstentioned, has one of the 141 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Tomislav Ljubenović, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Financial Support for the Family with Children, which submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. Does MP Tomislav Ljubenovic want a word? Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54740	Thank you, Chairman. Representatives of the government at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia insist on ignoring SRS proposals, but we will be persistent and will not give up the bill that can affect the improvement of certain areas of life, in this case in the area of childcare, more specifically financial support for the family with children. This proposal for change and addition is comprehensive and accurate in the part that regulates children's and parental supplements. The adoption of these amendments proposed by the SRS would put an outside force of the discriminatory provision of the applicable law, which defined that the right to children's and parental allowances would only be granted for the first, second, third and fourth children. Every child, regardless of the order of birth, must be treated equally with all the laws of the Republic of Serbia. Representatives of the government of the Republic of Serbia should think carefully about spending money from the Republic of Serbia's budget in the future, whether it will continue as usual or make a permanent redistribution of funds, and by finally stopping funding various NGOs and defining the money for the payment of a children's and parental allowance. The way the SRS proposes these changes and additions to the Law on Financial Support for the Family with Children, the adoption of these amendments and additions would provide a basis for encouraging the birth of more children and for the financial empowerment of families with children, which would motivate parents to stay in Serbia, to stop the trend of mass departure from Serbia. We are witnessing the daily departure of entire families from southern Serbia, from Leskovac and other municipalities of Jablanic County, from the Pcinj County. Young people leave, young married couples with small children. Those who leave will surely never return, but all efforts should be made to keep those who are there and stay. Demographic problems are great, and one of the largest is an insufficient number of newborn children. The number of newborns is much lower than the number of deceased, leading to a negative natural growth. When we add to this the massive departure of young and middle - aged people, it is clear that the government would have to react urgently if the situation wanted to be improved. If it continues to go deaf about our proposals, it means that the authorities do not care what Serbia's future will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54741	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—13, against—no one, the abstentioned, has, of the 140 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dubravko Bojic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on psychoactive controlled substances, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54742	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the Law on psychoactive controlled substances, my intervention refers to the preservation and destruction of these substances. Because, as production, traffic, drug use and drug confiscation is a serious and responsible job, so destroying it requires a strictly controlled procedure and protocol. Ladies and gentlemen, drugs are the planetary problem of the modern world and the greatest enemy of human health, which should be the unimpeached right and privilege of every individual. So the fight against this social evil must be uncompromising. I'm speaking globally here, referring to locals. The combat accent must be on education, on its prevention. In some countries education of educators is also being done, as scientific research has shown that young people do not know what they consume. It's the wrong thing to say about sharing drugs on easy and heavy. The worst are newly combined and newly designed synthetic drugs as a result of domestic labor, made in trained and handy laboratories, very weak or no scientific and technological capacity and potential. These drugs are known as "black mamba", the common name in English is "spatis". I'm not much of an English expert, I don't know if I've said it right. It's pure chemistry. It's enough in the plant mixture, and it doesn't have to be marijuana, add liquid synthetic cannabinoid, but also acetone to make it all come together. Then, such a mixture is placed in a zipped, hermetically sealed bag without the acetone evaporating. It's the acetone that's causing the biggest problems and causing chaos in the organism. Experts suggest it is impossible on two occasions to make synthetic cannabinoids of the same composition. That's why no one's named them yet. There are thousands of them. Every day they synthesize and each of them has some kind of signature, depending on what he's dealing with. The effects of their consumption can be light – from redness of the eyes, conjunctivitis, rapid pulse, dry mouth, changes in mood and perception, but also major problems in heart function, can even cause a heart attack, lead to kidney failure, difficulty breathing, major internal bleeding, psychotic madness, as well as other major health complications. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54743	Thank you, Professor Boyich. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—17, against—no one, abstentioned—no one, of 141 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Despotovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. Here you go, colleague Despotovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54744	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, given the importance of agriculture for Serbia's economic development and progress, as well as the huge potential our country has in this area, the Serbian Radical Party is proposing to amend the Agricultural and Rural Development Encouragement Act. This proposal provides for higher cash amounts of incentives that would significantly contribute to improving the market position of its agricultural producers, especially in the development of this branch of business. In this case, it is necessary for the state to increase money, as well as the milk premium, to stimulate agricultural producers and such concrete moves to improve the situation of the same. With this change, we suggested that the lower limit of milk per quarter to which the premium is granted should be reduced, especially where production in undeveloped areas takes place in difficult conditions. In order to improve the status of farmers, this law should increase the monetary amount of incentives also for plant production, i.e. the monetary amount allocated per hectare of farmland, because the plant production sector is very important for farmers. In Article 1 The draft law is amended in Article 15. The law on incentives in agriculture and rural development, paragraph 3, reduces the lower limit for cow milk premium per quarter by reducing from 1,500 liters to 1,000 liters, so that those farmers with reduced conditions in agriculture with less sold milk can also exercise the right to a premium. In the same article, item 4. The law on incentives in agriculture and rural development is changing by predicting an increase in the milk premium from seven dinars per litre to 10 dinars per litre. Article 2 Proposal for a Law — Article 18(1) The law on incentives in agriculture and rural development changes the amount of basic incentives for plant production by providing that the amount of incentives per hectare may be up to 6 thousand dinars changing the solution by which the amount of incentives per hectare can be at least 9,000 dinars. These proposed amendments to the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development will significantly improve and promote sustainability and improvement of the livestock fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54745	Thank you, colleague Despotovic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—16 MPs, against—no one, abstentioned—no one, of 141 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Sreto Peric, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on the Exploitation and Security Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. Here you go, colleague Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54746	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Parliament, first of all, I address fellow Members of Parliament who support the congregation's majority. No matter how persistent you are not to accept this law, Serbian Radical Party MPs will be more resilient to come to the agenda, to adopt the law. Our motive is only one - the desire to protect the interests of Serbian citizens. What's your motive not to vote for this bill, I don't know? I don't see any personal motives, unless it's pressure or obedience. There's no other one. But don't forget, it wasn't that long ago when one of the colleagues was sitting here and today it's under the influence of these arrogant and ruthless perpetrators. To be clear, the SRS isn't looking for debt protection here, so they don't settle their obligations, no, it's not about that. We just want this part of the job taken over by the bailiffs who used to do that job. When that was the case, the execution was far more just. This law often leads to mental illness and other diseases. How? By the fact that about three million Serbian citizens have already been hit by public executioners. At this point, somewhere around a million cases are expected to be executed by public perpetrators – 217 public perpetrators, of course, with their assistants working in Serbia today, would not be a big problem to resolve this state or the Ministry of Justice by doing this part of the work by judicial perpetrators. The job of execution is not just a mere kidnapping, it is somehow a skill, and each executioner should work to implement the obligation at as little cost as possible for the executioner. Although the code of ethics on the work of the perpetrator was adopted on 21 December 2016, he almost gave no results. The penalties imposed on public executioners are imposed by their chamber and generally end up at the level of the warning, possibly some fines that do not constitute a serious offence, or indeed a serious punishment against these perpetrators who act so. I think that you, dear colleagues who support the assembly majority, would have enough signals to think very seriously after, when the chairman says – who is in favour, vote for this, because Assistant Justice Minister Jelena Deretic said in the last year that the law on enforcement and security will change and will be abolished, or that public executioners will not be able to savage more. That's what I was quoting. That, I suppose, is a good signal to you that you can vote for this bill. The Serbian Radical Party is working very seriously on these problems. We have printed a special paper, a special edition of "The Great Serbia" where we explained in the most detailed way the execution of once and for all now. Serbian citizens largely support this. We are collecting signatures for a petition to put out of the public enforcement force, and I can tell you that Serbian citizens are very interested in this problem at this moment and not only those who are currently under the pressure of arrogant and ossion perpetrators, but also those who have no problems for now, which doesn't mean they won't have any. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54747	Thank you, colleague Peric. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 19, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 141 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Nikola Savic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on textbooks, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. Here's a colleague of Saviæ.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54748	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is who knows which time I submitted to the Assembly a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on textbooks. However, as we can see, there is still no answer to this question, and if there is a problem with textbooks long ago, and in the last few years this problem has culminated. In fact, we have a situation where textbooks write everyone, betray each and every one of them. We are not in the SRS for the monopoly to rule in this area, but there must simply be some order here. Now we have a situation where the main word here is run by publishers from Croatia and Slovenia. If Croatians and Slovenians write us textbooks from history and textbooks from national culture, then we all know what this leads to. So, especially when it comes to textbooks that process topics from national history and national culture, there must be four eyes opened and such textbooks must go through many controls to come to the students. In front of those who use them. In fact, textbooks are something that our students first encounter. What they first meet, what they read, it's what's left for them for life. And to all of us, the elderly who are in serious years still can't be erased from the memory of some destination, some elements of that communist time, from that communist ideology. What our young generations are learning now, out of the open to say the wrong textbooks, will also leave some lasting consequences on them. So there's got to be some order here, because you can't leave this to the case. I have asked this law to sanction all those whose textbooks contain specifics that insult national culture, national identity and simple public morality and so on. I was at one of the previous conferences and I was talking and showing you all the textbooks we have. I won't do it anymore, but there's got to be order here. I can also commend, let's just say one thing. I almost saw that in one high school, one novel, one contemporary writer, of course, I don't want to speak my name, so it doesn't turn out that I'm advertising someone here, really a modern, excellent writer who entered the book, was included in the book, but I also know there are authors from the history textbooks who wrote extraordinary textbooks, but it's not yet included.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54749	Thank you, fellow Saviæ. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 17, against – none of the abstentions – has a total of 141 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Nikola Savic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Safety Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 28 March 2019. Here's a colleague of Saviæ.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54750	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have tabled a bill on amendments and additions to the Traffic Safety Act on the Roads. This is a very important and important topic that literally concerns every man, every driver, and one who is not a driver. I can say that there are certain inconsistencies in this law, indifferences, contradictions that are, and practice has shown this was the cause of car accidents, and even a fatal accident. It's about a famous member of 47. The road safety law, attitude 7, which is contradictory and indeterminate and based on which no clear and precise determination can be made and determine who has the advantage at the intersections. This is especially true of those cases when a car accident occurs, and then it cannot be identified as the culprit of a car accident. Then we have a situation where legal experts interpret it in one way, experts and traffic experts interpret it in another way, and these disputes take place indefinitely. It's good to make highways, which ends highways and what's planned and built new roads, but if it's not followed from the formal side by positive regulations that, besides making roads, will allow safer traffic in a different way, then there won't be a lot of big things. Unfortunately, we are witnessing that in the last month alone there have been a large number of fatal car accidents, now a few days ago a 16-year-old girl died in Nis. It's the eighth victim of that tragic accident when the bus "Nish Express" and the train crashed on the track. Indeed, I don't think this bill of mys is worth anything, it just takes a good will to look at this member, to reshape and at least in that part, in one small breakthrough to prevent and reduce the consequences with a negative outcome. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54751	Thank you, fellow Saviæ. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for -13, against - none of the abstentions - has one MP of 141. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Miroslav Stankovic Đuričić, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Biomedical Aided Fertilisation, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 14 March 2019. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54752	I thank the chairman. We are witnessing extremely poor demographic images of the Republic of Serbia. Every year, the Republic of Serbia loses 35 to 38 thousand people and if it continues like this, in forty years we will have three million less inhabitants than today. Today, about 100,000 children are born less than in the 1950s. If we add everything to the fact that more than 300,000 couples have problems with infertility, we come to the fact that the Law on Biomedical Aided Insemination is very important and the problem of birth is one of the burning problems of the Republic of Serbia. Those who are going through this battle know how difficult it is to collect all the necessary medical documentation to get a commission to enter the process. As someone who went through this process alone, I can say that couples are often misunderstood, that they feel lonely and helpless. It should achieve that diagnostics are simple, fast and accessible, which is absolutely not the case right now. Then, it is necessary to abolish the age line and leave it to the commission to assess the individual reproductive potential. It should be possible for every woman who meets medical conditions to try to be realized as a mother. Also, the law should regulate the issue of male infertility, i.e. to ensure that men are treated for the cost of the Republic Health Insurance Fund. Then increase the number of funded attempts of biomedically assisted fertilisation by RFZO, as well as enable the process of biomedically assisted fertilisation with frozen material, couples who have a problem with male infertility, as well as couples who have frozen healthy material before entering the treatment process of malignancies. Also, make it possible to finance the costs of RFO for freezing and freezing material. Enable biomedical assisted fertilisation and those couples that have already been realized as parents naturally. Why would these couples be sentenced to one child if there was a problem in the meantime, and if the only way to get them back as parents is to become just biomedically assisted insemination, and there are few such couples? This right is also guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 63, which says everyone has the right to freely decide on the birth of children and that the Republic of Serbia encourages parents to decide to give birth and help them do so. This problem is very complex and sensitive and should be thoroughly approached and resolved, I suggest you support this bill's amendment due to an alarming demographic picture of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54753	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 17, against – no one with abstention – has, of 141. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marijan Risticevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's polling committee to identify the facts and circumstances related to the business of cable operators, broadcasting of cross-border channels, broadcasting of domestic advertising in content of cross-border channels and other irregularities related to electronic media and cable operators controlled by Dragan Gilas, Dragan Šolak and David Petreus. Here you go, colleague Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54754	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, believe it or not, I got an answer from REM. The answer was signed by Rajko Galin and I ask the republican prosecutor to pay attention to the Executive Director of REM, Rajko Galin, since it is fraud that weighs hundreds of millions of euros. The lady replied that "N1" television is not registered in the Republic of Serbia, that it is not a media service provider within the meaning of the Law on Electronic Media in Serbia. So it is unequivocally clear from today that "N1" television is not registered in the Republic of Serbia. But, behold, miracles, the answer was not given to REM, the answer was given to them by "Adria News", which is run by Yugoslavia's Ćosic in Serbia. The second part of the answer was given to me by United Media from Luxembourg, which includes Solak, Petreus and Gilas. It's like a goat giving you an answer whether it ate or didn't eat the cabbage. It is amazing that REM, who is in charge of electronic media and cable operators, gives reply to MPs on the basis of the answers to precisely those who violate the Law on Electronic Media, International Convention, etc. This is outrageous, this is a heavy fraud worth hundreds of millions of euros. Just to remind you that the SBB, that they traded between Petreus, Solak and Gilas and estimated the value of this at 2.6 billion euros. So 2.6 billion euros in REM cannot control, but it lets "N1" television unregistered in Serbia broadcast a programme from Serbia, amazing. I received the answer that "N1" TV and Sports Club, that they are registered in Luxembourg and that the programme is re-emissioned from Ljubljana. People, in which study I was in Belgrade twice, we all know that "N1" television produces a programme from Serbia and has a large part of the workforce in Serbia. They boldly agree that they are registered in Luxembourg, and then in the second part they say the programme is being broadcast from Ljubljana. What's this? Then Slovenians do not know that I have already received the answer from Slovenians that "N1" television and sports channels, Sport Club, 13 channels they consider cross-border TVs in Slovenia because they are registered in Luxembourg.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54755	Thanks, time. I'm putting the motion to a vote. Finalising vote: for – 18 MPs. No proposal accepted. National MP Marijan Risticevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the affairs related to former Belgrade Mayor Dragan Gilas and the unintended spending of funds.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54756	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I ask that a committee of inquiry be set up to deal with the works, and especially with the Sundays of Dragan Gilas, former Minister and former mayor of Belgrade, and I call it the thief by his characteristics. So, we all remember that the bridge on Ada cost four times as much, we all remember the works in King Alexander's Boulevard, we all remember the Bus Plus, we all remember how Dragan Gilas became an exporter of our money. Exporter of citizens' money by selling fog. I have just described how Dragan Solak, Dragan Gilas, whose "Direct Media" is an integral part of United Media, is taking hundreds of millions of euros a year through advertising and broadcasting, i.e. the re-emission of cross-border channels, which means that pirate channels are taking hundreds of millions of euros a year. So, works and Sundays of Dragan Gilas must stand in the way, and that is why I have proposed a polling committee, which should deal with all the jobs, including the jobs he's working with together with David Petreus, former CIA chief and military commander in Afghanistan, and with the School that became a citizen of Malta, who mistreated Serbia, says he is a tax resident in Switzerland, although all of his businesses are in the Republic of Serbia. In the way I described with the cross-border channels, with the SBB, with REM, whose composition he put together, REM needs, on its composition, to deal with the prosecution. Over this, he washes hundreds of millions of euros together with Solak, Gilas and Petreus, and all the jobs, works and Sundays of Dragan Gilas, who bought an entire parliamentary club, the head of the parliamentary club, and bought the whole opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54757	I'm putting the motion to a vote. Finalising vote: for - 24 MPs. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Marijan Risticevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the declaration of the fake state of Kosovo, an impact that the International Court of Justice had on this, and the responsibility of former Foreign Minister Vuk Jeremic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Finalising vote: for – 18 MPs. No proposal accepted. National MP Marijan Risticevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to visits by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia of certain extremist organisations and individuals. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic, on the basis of Article 92(2) of Article 157(2) and Article 192. The Rules of Procedure, he proposed that a joint uniform search be carried out on the motion for a decision to suspend the office of the President of the Court of Justice in the courts of general and special jurisdiction in the Republic of Serbia, a motion for a decision to suspend the office of the President of the Court of Justice in the Criminal Court in Kruševec and a proposal for a decision to suspend the role of the President of the Court of Justice in the Court of Justice in Piroth. Do you want a word? (No) Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Finalising vote: for – 126 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Since we have come to the conclusion on proposals for complementarity of the agenda and emergency procedure, I would like to put to the vote the draft agenda in general. I conclude the vote: for – 126, against – no one, abstention – one. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the 6th session of the first regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019 as a whole. Dn e v n i r e d: 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Capital Act, which was submitted by the Government; 2. Proposal for a decision on the termination of the office of the President of the Court of Justice in the courts of general and special jurisdiction in the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government; 3. Proposal for a decision on the termination of the office of the President of the Court of Justice at the Kraševec Criminal Court, which was submitted by the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government and 4. Proposal for a decision on the termination of the office of the President of the Court of Justice at the Court of Justice in Piroth, which was submitted by the Committee on Justice, the State Administration and the Local Self-Government We are moving to work on the established agenda of the session. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that the sittings were invited to attend Branko Ruzic, Minister of State Administration and local self-government with his associates. We expect the minister to enter the O.R. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours, because of the need to bring in the acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. I ask the minister and his associates to enter the O.R. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a principle search on the Bill of Amendments and Supplements of the Capital Act. I welcome Minister Branko Ruzic. I give my word to the Minister of State Administration and local self-government as a representative of the legislator of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the capital, Branko Ruzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54758	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, amendments and additions of the Law on the capital are certainly very important, given that here, almost 12 years later, a higher degree of decentralisation and transfer of competence from the level of the Republic to the city of Belgrade is essentially being introduced, but of course, leaving the possibility that the decentralisation should be implemented in a manner and manner that will lead to all services to citizens, citizens and businesses being on a higher level of availability. Therefore, the adoption of this law on amendments and additions is important because of the need to give the city competences that will enable it to function better, and for citizens, as I said, to provide more efficient services. It is precisely these objectives that have been outlined in public administration reform. As you know, public administration reform is one of three criteria or the pregnant pillar of our European integration. The reform of public administration is coordinated by the Ministry, whose head I am currently at, and I think that one of the qualitative shifts is that we will have greater public participation in the very adoption of policies, subsequently raising citizens' confidence in the state institutions and what is certainly important, in order to achieve these objectives, it is important to ensure that mechanisms of planning, governance and control of public administration institutions. As I was saying in the introduction, this law is primarily about decentralisation. On the one hand, it is, therefore, a transfer of competence from the republic to the Belgrade city level, but also deals with creating conditions for further internal decentralisation of the city of Belgrade, whether it is a matter of recognising the role of city municipalities in the exercise of certain responsibilities or creating conditions for the city to transfer certain jobs to city municipalities by its statute. The internal decentralisation of Belgrade's city creates conditions for city municipalities, as traditional municipalities, to a full extent achieving their development potential, attracting investments, which can be realised practically as units of local self-government. All of this, of course, can also produce greater efficiency and better services for our citizens who bear sovereignty of course and the city of Belgrade, but of course also better services for the economy. I remind you that here we are talking about the traditional municipalities of the city of Belgrade, which so far, as you all know, primarily those living in Belgrade or dealing with politics in Belgrade, have come to grips with individual initiatives in order to be more efficient and help citizens with all the services they have at their disposal. As far as I am informed, there is a positive example in Kaludjerica where a service centre was created to allow citizens to precisely exercise all their rights in communication with the administration, applying the Law on General Administrative Procedure and the Software Platform e-ZUP on Electronic Data Exchange and so that citizens do not have to come from Kaludjerica, to travel much longer to achieve their rights. But I think the time has come to put an end to that gain and start with one system solution. Also, the adoption of these amendments and additions need to comply with the provisions of this law with many sectoral laws adopted in the previous period. I remind you, this is the first time in 12 years to essentially make changes and additions, essential changes and additions to the Capital Act. These sectoral laws are certainly interesting because they regulate certain issues of importance for the work and functioning of local self-government. These are, of course, the Law on Local Self-Government, the Law on Changes and Supplements to the Law on Planning and Construction, the Law on Public Property, the Law on Housing and Building Maintenance, the Law on disaster reduction and emergency management, the Law on Higher Education, the Law on Employees in the AP and units of local self-government. The capital, as you know, and the Constitution recognises it as a special unit of local self-government, has, unfortunately, not differed from all other local self-government units in Serbia, and we all know that it is much more complex in terms of an organisation in service that is obliged to provide citizens and businesses. Amendments and additions to this law propose the extension of the city's jurisdiction, thus fulfilling the constitutional provisions of Article 189(5), which points to the possibility that other competences, other than those entrusted to municipalities and cities, may be entrusted with the law on the capital. We were all of course aware of the scope, but we suggested a series of changes and additions, which are changing the powers given to the capital. I must, of course, point out that we were primarily guided by the need for Belgrade in full capacity to be fully in a position to take care and provide services to citizens and businesses in a comprehensive, comprehensive and efficient way. Changes and complements are based on its special constitutional and legal position and in line with the existing developed, professional, organisational and personnel capacities that certainly exist in the city of Belgrade. I will give you several examples that point to how individual powers will ensure better quality provision of services to citizens in accordance with the city's capacities. We considered it important to enable the establishment of public enterprises by certain city municipalities in the territory of the city of Belgrade. This, of course, is also about public utility companies, since the arrangement of the provision of municipal activities is one of the original competences of the local self-government unit. Thus, some of these activities, i.e. providing conditions for their implementation, are distributed between the city and the city municipalities of Barajev, Groca, Lazarets, Mladenovac, Obrenovac, Sopota and Surčina. So we have cases, they've been investing in municipal systems for decades, and they're out, they're essentially out of control. In order to ensure smooth functioning, including in certain cases financing the work of these public enterprises, we believe it is necessary to provide for the possibility of the establishment of public enterprises by city municipalities. Especially when it comes to the fact that it's primarily about so-called. the border, urban municipalities that once had the legal opportunity to set up public enterprises and which had just done certain municipal activities organised by setting up their own public enterprises. By amendments, we propose that the city's competence be included in the regulation and provision of business related to construction, reconstruction and management of public roads. On this case the city of Belgrade has, and we are all aware of, the necessary resources and capacities to manage these roads on its territory, so this change is proposed to remove the misunderstandings in the application of the Law on Roads. The Belgrade city's statutes allow more precise offices to relate between the city of Belgrade as units of local self-government and city municipalities educated in the city's territory, in the area of reducing the risk of disasters and managing emergency situations. This certainly all together, given not so far past, can be regarded as very significant and how important it is that all competent, first of all, act preventively and timelyly in the event of elemental disasters. We also suggest that the city of Belgrade, through the provisions of the statutes, can assign city municipalities to jobs related to symbols, names, settlements in the local self-government unit. On the names of streets, squares, urban districts, settlements and other areas of settlement on their territory, with the previous consent of the ministry responsible for the affairs of local self-government. This is certainly the responsibility of the local self-government unit assembly in accordance with the Law on Local Self-Government, but for the sake of a more efficient, celery, faster carrying out these tasks and simplifying the procedures for their implementation, we suggest that the city of Belgrade can entrust these tasks to the city's municipalities. We suggest that the city appoints and relieves the directors of childcare facilities, given that the city is their founder, and that the city as you know it establishes a network of these institutions. Given the number of public manifestations and insufficient regulation in the area, the need for the city of Belgrade to determine and regulate the maintenance of public events of importance for the city and when establishing and maintaining public events, the city would be managed by sectoral laws, the organisation of this area, the way of financing costs. In this way, it would make a significant contribution to the transparency of investment in funds. In line with the birth-enhancing strategy adopted in 2018, the city of Belgrade is proposed to implement measures and finance projects in order to boost the birth rate in its territory, all of which, of course, bear in mind that the city of Belgrade has the necessary capacities, to provide, of course, those funds and to implement them. We have also proposed more precisely the authority of the city of Belgrade provided for by the Law on Trade and the Law on Tourism regarding temporary facilities and movable means of retail trade, as well as the places where these facilities are located. In particular, attention should be paid to the proximity of preschool and school institutions, health centres and so on. Given the diverse character of the area located in Belgrade's territory from urban to rural, it is necessary to regulate Belgrade's jurisdiction in the area of keeping and protecting domestic and exotic animals. We wanted to ensure the participation of the city of Belgrade, on one higher level and in the area of municipal waste disposal, in order to contribute to the protection of the environment, which is of great importance in the territory of the capital as well as in the jurisdiction of the city to adopt a programme to prevent waste from plastic bags with a plan for its implementation. I would also like to highlight the financing of anti-building protection in the territory of the city. It may be done to someone as an insignificant part of that mosaic, but we had earlier situations that precisely for some procedural reasons and because of the inability to finance the city's own municipalities against construction protection, the damage of appearances, and that the procedure itself prevents us from doing so, and I think this is also very important, as is significant and so on. Field-guard service. In the area of agriculture, we consider it important to round up the city's competences by empowering it to carry out agricultural inspection tasks in the area of control of the application of measures prescribed by the city of Belgrade for the owners or users of agricultural land, as well as control of the use of agricultural land in relation to the annual programme for the protection of promotion and use of agricultural land that brings the city of Belgrade. What is also due to Belgrade citizens, Belgrade's citizens, but of course all Serbian citizens, we must point out that Belgrade is the second agricultural continent at the level of the entire Republic of Serbia, after Vojvodina there are about 240,000 hectares of which 150 thousand hectares are being processed. And in some previous period, it wasn't brought to perfection, and when I say it wasn't brought talks about land rental control, and this way it would be better controlled, more transparent, and that would make more revenue in the budget. At the same time, one of the, I would say, important and quite relevant and rational arguments for these amendments and additions to the law to be adopted in an urgent procedure is the fact that we have provided for a precision of the city's competence to issue building permits for construction of buildings, in accordance with the law governing planning and construction. It is precisely the provisions that apply, therefore, to this area that are important to speed up the implementation of the construction procedures, but also with the law of the facilities and the completion of this very demanding, extensive, complex work that took a lot of time and made a narrow throat that we have practically broken in this way. I think it's a big and significant step forward. What certainly is significant is that, according to what the city leaders have already announced, but this will be the subject of, of course, their work in the city of Belgrade, it is that construction permits in the suburban municipalities will be issued for a number of squares. Also, in suburban for more squares than in this city. The same is happening in terms of legalization, that's how much I've been informed, the plan, and I think it'll greatly relieve this whole situation that we had, just centralized one system that led to the creation of that bottleneck, which, of course, was a policy that was led before, so before 2012. As you know, the Capital City Act was passed in 2007, right? All of these changes are intended to materialise the provisions of the Constitution and the laws that the city of Belgrade recognise as a special unit of local self-government, i.e. that the city of Belgrade also acquires rights, but also obligations to exercise those powers for which it has the capacity and the need to regulate them. In order, of course, to simplify the procedures for the exercise of the rights of citizens and businesses, we will be able to raise the quality of the provision of services by the city to our citizens. It is enough to take an analysis of how many investors or investments came into some of the municipalities, for example in Srem, let's mention Stara Paz, Sremska Mitrovica, Ruma, and Stara Paz's relying on Surcin and Surcin was not in this position, well on Batajnica, but in part and Surcin, he was not able to use the possibility that on one or similar, identical territory with all infrastructure potentials attracts investment. So, I think this is certainly very significant. Finally, what I want to say is to remind myself that the city of Belgrade is both an administrative and economic and cultural and developmental and university centre of the country and that, according to the last 2011 census, there is 23% of the total population of the Serbian state. The most important value, therefore, brought by the amendments and additions of this law, is of course decentralisation, i.e. the confidence of the city of Belgrade's higher responsibilities, in order to adequately respond as its closest citizens to their needs, but also to bring a better division of business between the city and city municipalities and thus the possibility of transferring its original responsibilities to the city's municipalities. We believe that Belgrade and its city municipalities have, of course, opportunities and capacity and time indeed was to enable them to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54759	Thank you, Minister Rose. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Dr. Vojislav Seselj has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54760	I did not expect, ladies and gentlemen, that in this term I would ever have the reason to praise the ruling majority, but this is the first time that we have not accumulated all the points of the agenda in a single debate, so that we do not actually have the opportunity to discuss any part of the agenda in detail and to make it significant for whoever has submitted the legal project and for the citizens of this country who will be subject to the law. But there's one thing I'd like to commend you for, and right for the other, I'd like to attack you. You've filed this law by emergency procedure again. And most of the laws are passed by emergency procedures in this National Assembly. And by the logic of the matter by emergency procedure, only laws that initiate something like an emergency. It doesn't have to be an emergency in the right sense of the word, but it can be something that happened suddenly, which puts the normal lives of citizens at risk, which is being eroded by some dangers if they don't act in an emergency procedure, etc. You have the custom of making an emergency procedure, because he hates you to enter a normal legislative procedure, because he hates you to leave you to opposition parties enough time to submit amendments, get ready for the debate, and you think the faster the law is passed, the better it will be, the faster it will be applied, but then we get into a situation where we have to re-adopt the novels over and over again. To all the laws that have been passed, it's hard for some of them to have, which we haven't been novelts yet. It's particularly interesting here how you explained the adoption of this law by emergency procedure. You're saying in this explanation that the reason for the emergency procedure is that the procedures are to begin the reason for building and legalising objects. Well, these procedures about building and legalizing objects have been starting for decades, so they can't finish, they can't start from the beginning. Very few objects are legalized, implemented in land books, all things are in place, in fact, because of the laziness of the administration, because of the attempt to process by the bureaucratic apparatus, this isn't just an attack on you, you've inherited a lot of that apparatus from earlier regimes, from this mob coup on October 5th, and so on. Now, we need to take care of how to prevent this bureaucratic will and how to prevent corruption in local authorities under high-level bureaucratic will conditions. We can only do this by more precise regulation of the legalization of objects, so take the principle of attitudes to legalize almost everything that was built on private posters, unless there are strong reasons not to accept legalisation, because some public interest is being threatened in this way. So, to keep the prices cheapest, to have the procedure conducted quickly and that in advance each citizen can figure out how much he will pay, not that the amount depends on that clerk who is waiting for him on the counter and is able to send him from the counter to the counter endlessly, to force him in the end and to give up legalisation when he sees the amount at the end and how much he was harassed by the time he got to the final. If these legalisation transactions do not end within a reasonable period of time, of course it will be a great damage to society, and the state loses significant revenues because then these facilities do not go into traffic, as soon as the facility is legalised and when it is entered into land books can be contracted. If the facility is not in the land books, then a purchase contract cannot be concluded, it cannot be verified at the competent notary and cannot be transferred in land books. In fact, illegal sales contracts can be made, but then it's a matter of paper receipts and it takes somewhere until the biological end of the life of one who participated in such civil contact, and then before the court it's very difficult to prove what was actually agreed, how much money was paid, how paid, etc. These are, then, endless litigations that can last 20 years in our practice. All governments have been trying since 2000, at least claiming to try to solve the problem of buildings built without a building permit, but here in the first place they need to put the buildings that were built on land owned and in places where absolutely every building is banned. Now, that's where you showed absolute incompetence, and the ministry and the authorities of local self-government. Why? None of you dares to tear down two houses of Tomislav Nikolic, or three, in the protected Sava River Belt, where the drinking water springs are. Until you destroy it, you have no moral right to destroy anyone else, and you are inclined to bring down the poor. We have sent our activists several times to prevent that eviction, once or twice, so for the third time, they end up counting even higher costs for the execution of the buildings, and the things that Tomislav Nikolic has raised in the eyes. Your government is deep down with Tomislav Nikolic. This regulation that you have made for Tomislav Nikolic, to remain in a 800-square-square palace, will be the monument of the highest form of corruption of your government. Is that a corrupt shop? Is that something normal? Imagine the President of the United States ends his mandate and he decides to stay in the White House, and the new president to raise the tent in the White House yard. That's what's going on with us. Will each president provide himself with one palace? The communists eventually set off in this way when the privatisation took place in 1990, they began privatising facilities that were not allowed to be privatised, which were official apartments and official residence facilities. That shouldn't have been privatized. They could privatize apartments in social property. It was a sense of privatisation, that a man who is practically the owner of a social property apartment, whose apartment no one can take away, became his formal owner to go out with him and then to perform on the market more traffic that brings to the state and more tax collection. That was the point. One Budimir Loncar took a nice state villa, sold it in a hurry, took the money and left. How many of those were there? Now you're allowing something like that. Tomislav Nikolic stayed at the state palace. Until when? While his term of office, as he is called, is called this imaginary organ, for co-operation with China and Russia, and President Vukic goes to Russia not to lead Tomislav Nikolic, which will only ruin his mood during the trip. He's going to China, he's being welcomed there, he's not taking Tomislav Nikolic. Why? Well, if something didn't spoil it there, it could only spoil it, it could bring yellow water from Morava to drink yellow people in China. What else could he do? You think the people are stupid, that the people don't understand your actions, and you as the ruling majority are afraid at one point that Tomislav Nikolic is not forming a new party and that he is not a competition in the elections. Listen, Tomislav Nikolic is a new party. With Velja Ilic, a party of drunks, if Bora Djordjevic lends them the title of his 1990 party -- a party of ordinary drunks, it would be the name of Tomislav Nikolic and Velimir Ilic. Finally, your inspections never reviewed the business of the Dragica Nikolic Foundation. Millions of euros were robbed there, more than five million euros, you missed it, and now everything is allowed. You never questioned where he got a million euros to raise a church in his hometown. When he saw that there were no people to go to that church, because there were only 15 inhabitants of the late age, he decided to be a monastery, so he found someone from the church he bribed to find a nun who would be there alone and watch over his church. What's a church? The church should be a family mausoleum. So much greed disfigures a man, he does amazing things with his psycho, that he imagines he's a Pharaoh and he needs a Pharaoh's tomb. Furthermore, Zorana Mihajlovic, as minister of construction and capital facilities, and what else, Natasa, is there anything else a minister? (Natasa SP Jovanovic: Traffic. Wherever she interfered, there were always failures, delaying work, skating the entire mountains on the roads she was building. Now, she has proposed three laws with different names for legalization of objects and several amendments each. The last Law on Lawfulness was adopted in 2015, well amended and completed in 2018. None of those laws of hers gave any results. Why? Because your local self-government, i.e. national administrative authorities or authorities of local self-government entrusted to public authority, are unable to monitor the construction of illegal buildings and intervene immediately as soon as the construction begins. Why they are not able to do so, and we know that there is, Peter Jojic said well – the real construction mafia, which builds on a large number of houses and apartments and which never appear these municipal, city controllers. When an object is built, it's too late to collapse, then it's a sin to collapse, not to collapse. It can be taken away from a part of the facility, to compensate the costs of a state not paid for utility, for various other obligations, etc., but to collapse, it is a sin, it must not be done, especially if the facility is private property and if it meets the formal legal requirements, except that it has no license. But then there's nothing going on, we've seen the examples of buildings in Belgrade, it's for science fiction movies, buildings high a few floors, and maybe there's no 2.5 meters wide, in downtown Belgrade. When it comes to the affairs of legislation and legalisation, it was once in the city of Belgrade in the jurisdiction of the city's municipalities. City municipalities have persistently reduced their powers, as one who ruled in the city wanted the municipalities in which the opposing party is in power to have as little authority as possible. Therefore, these public undertakings which had a business space, a state-owned business space, which rented the space were also abolished. Some municipalities did well, so they made a lot of money, and in some, it was a crime again, so they couldn't make their income. When I became president of the municipality in Zemun, I found a public business "business space" with five employees and huge debts. I carried out an action to collect a business space from one tenant to another, and soon I could hire about 130 people, from controllers to these, to those, but 130 people who had no bread, got bread, and that money had existed before, just didn't go into a municipal account, but went to who knows what private accounts, to the law offices that had taken over the obligation to run court processes to make debts allegedly, etc. The municipality has the authority to move those who wrongly come into a certain business or residential space. They couldn't use it in case of business space. Furthermore, you have a situation to announce the return of certain municipal responsibilities from the city of Belgrade to the city's municipalities again. A clear concept of city municipalities must be adopted. Should they exist or not? If you're going to take them down to regular offices, detectives, city authorities, to get certain tents closer to the citizens, then there's no need to play local self-government, to go to elections, but just have some ready-made staff, let the employees do it. Local self-government, even if it is a city municipality with less real authority than the other municipalities, than the real municipalities, must have some authority to have a purpose of existence. It should prescribe jurisdiction in the case of legalisation of objects, but it should be strictly given what it can, what it can't, and how much price it is for any legalisation, that it leaves nothing at the will of an official, that the official only checks whether the conditions and nothing else are met, and not that he calculates and that multiple times the citizen comes. Private property facilities, therefore, can be legalised in a moment and are given a certain discount to citizens, to go faster, because the benefit for the state is the subsequent exit of these facilities to the market and to pay taxes on purchase contracts, rather than what will be obtained from legalisation of the facility. That's what needs to be done, and then it'll go fast. Municipal officials still need to be encouraged by a certain percentage increase in earnings if the privatisation of the facilities goes faster, because then they will work more. He'll be more interested in work. Instead of putting them in a position to ask for bribes to be paid, to be corrupt, you encourage them to gain higher income by working harder. So you should see the structure of illegal objects. About 90% of these facilities were built out of necessity, out of the need for citizens to provide a roof over their heads and their families, to expand their housing facilities, to improve their quality, etc. There's a lot of business facilities. Construction of each business facility increases employment, increases production. So we should encourage that, too. I see every day when I pass through the Earth, you know, on private plots, the old houses collapse, they rise bigger from several floors, and I'm proud of it. Somehow, the Earth grows like water. It's not a lot of floors. Sometimes it's four apartments, six to ten apartments. It's probably all without permission. Why would it bother us if these people were willing to pay the state all taxes? All you have to do is show good will and speed up this job and sometimes, when it comes to legalization, after legalization, let them pay for it in certain wars. If they owe the state, they can take part of the facility as a state, but they can't be threatened by anyone else's destruction. Take down Tomislav Nikolic, then talk about the crash. It is a shame for every state official, every member of the government, if housing is destroyed anywhere in Serbia, and there is no previous collapse of something that is absolutely illegal, and these are the houses of Tomislav Nikolic on the left bank of the Sava in a protected belt.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54761	Thank you, Dr. Seselj. The word is made by the MP Slavica Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54762	Dear Minister, honourable fellow Members of the People's Parliament, it is my great honor and pleasure to speak as a MP today about the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Capital, because I am also a longtime committee of the Assembly of the City of Belgrade, and I believe that the proposed amendments and additions to this law will contribute to a better and more efficient performance of the tasks of the City of Belgrade. Belgrade today is a city of construction, investment, smart urban planning, high-level employment and overall development, a city that lives and is determined to exploit its potential to the maximum. Belgrade as the future capital of Southeast Europe is in the process of major urban transformations, which, in addition to the key infrastructure development of the "Belgrade on Water", include a number of other projects that will create a recognizable economic and tourist attractive and competitive city. The city administration seeks to pay equal attention to both grand projects and projects of small conditions with the desire to improve the quality of life of all citizens and visitors by profiling and highlighting identity, improving the physical structure of the city and using environmentally acceptable traffic modes. The strategy and urban plan of the city has clearly defined the objectives and initiatives leading to the strengthening of identity, the rational availability of resources, the efficient management of public property, the planning and control of public space through the continued development of innovative models, joint planning of urban planning and the inclusion of the city in strategic planning. The city of Belgrade is occupying an area of 3,224 km2. According to the 2001 census, there are 1,659.000 residents. This number has been significantly increased. It's estimated to be nearly two million people now. Belgrade is organised into 17 city municipalities. The illustrations of how large Belgrade is and how much it takes to regulate its smooth functioning is that in these 17 municipalities Belgrade has 288 primary and secondary schools, two state universities and more private ones, and that education covers about 230,000 students with whom more than 22,000 employees work. In Belgrade there are 59 health institutions, 16 health homes, four KBCs, three special hospitals, five clinics, one clinical center, 14 institutions and institutes with a stationary, as well as 12 non-stationers. In the last five years, construction activity in the capital has seen significant growth, both in the construction of infrastructure facilities, businesses, and in particular housing and business. The largest construction sites are currently "Belgrade on Water", "The Earth Gate", Block 11, old MUP, business and housing facilities in Sarajevo, Block 20a and many others. All of the above has led to great employment, as well as lack of construction workers of all profiles. The works monitored by the construction industry also record growth in production and sales, which together contributes to the greater purchasing power of the population. In addition to exclusive locations in the city center and coastal areas and significant residential projects at the city level, great activity is recorded in individual construction, which is linked by moss to the town's edged municipalities, and thanks to the efficient issue of building permits. In 2018, the city of Belgrade issued construction permits for about a million squares; 222 building permits were issued, as well as 933 location conditions. Since location conditions are a step towards obtaining construction permits, this positive trend continued in this year and today in the Belgrade area, over a thousand construction sites are actively functioning. In 2012 comparisons were issued 242 thousand 567 square meters, i.e. 538 location conditions and 104 building permits. In the previous period, new hotels have been built that have contributed significantly to the city's image, especially the development of tourism. Over a million tourists were registered in Belgrade during 2018, while overnight stays were two and a half million, which is 13% better than in previous 2017. In order to achieve even better results, the Belgrade Tourist Organisation plans to step up its activities in the existing, as well as to introduce and work on new tourism markets for Belgrade in 2019. The main feature of the capital is the openness and friendly relationship of its inhabitants, as well as a large offer of cultural and sports activities, but also a nightlife that attracts a large number of young tourists. This is what Belgrade is today, and since 2007, when the Capital Act was passed, no amendments and additions to the existing law have been made. Meanwhile, the laws on amendments and additions to the Law on Local Self-Government, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Planning and Construction, the Law on Public Property, the Law on Apartment and Building Maintenance, the Law on the reduction of the risk of disasters and emergency management have entered into force. All these laws regulate certain issues of importance for the work and functioning of local self-government and therefore it was necessary to bring the capital law into line. The statutes of the city in 2011, the Belgrade municipalities, as we say, have gained status, unfortunately, of a little stronger local communities. Unfortunately, the municipalities of Mladenovac, Lazarevic or Vračar and Stari Grad have less authority than any smaller municipality in Serbia. The issues raised by these amendments and the additions to the laws are the regulation of the position of the city of Belgrade, as well as the fact that it is a special territorial unit in the local self-government system, which is specific because of its size, the number of inhabitants, as well as the fact that the economic, financial, traffic and cultural centre of the Republic of Serbia, with the position of the capital of the Republic of Serbia, create the possibility of transferring the city of Belgrade to more municipalities in its composition than the existing regulation also enables compliance with laws that have been passed in the meantime and relate to local self-government units. As mentioned above, the bill provides for individual exceptions to other local self-government units. It also envisions the possibility that municipal networks in Belgrade's territory can be owned by an operator of municipal activity. Due to the specificities of the city of Belgrade, it is also necessary to create appropriate regulation and opportunities for the transfer of more city affairs to urban municipalities, which the city of Belgrade teaches in accordance with the law, which are directly in contact with citizens from its territory. On the other hand, this would result in the internal decentralisation of the city of Belgrade, which would allow for more quality and efficient performance of the Belgrade city's competences, which is the aim of the city's municipalities education. Starting with this, the bill provides, in addition, for the possibility that city municipalities can establish a public enterprise, with the previous consent of the Belgrade City Assembly, and in line with the Belgrade City Statute, which will establish a city municipality body that exercises the right of founders. This solution, and given the depravity of the territory of the city, as well as the fact that certain urban municipalities represent urban continents and various administrative centres for a particular area, will create conditions for a more efficient and quality performance in the city's competence, especially for the pursuit of municipal activities in the area of urban municipalities. Given that public enterprises established by the city of Belgrade because of existing technical and technological capacities operate in the part of Belgrade's territory, this solution will not affect the work of these public enterprises. A significant issue passed on by the bill to municipalities is the construction, reconstruction, maintenance and management of public untegorised roads in Belgrade's territory. For every resident of any Belgrade municipality, it is very important that they have a way to their apartment or house. I, like Mr. Seselj, will speak on the case of the municipality of Zemun, since I come from that municipality, a municipality that is very dissociated and stretches to about 15,000 hectares with 200,000 inhabitants, which has in the last period experienced a significant expansion, because they have niched entirely new settlements. In the municipality of Zemun was recorded over the past period a significant inflow of the population who were settled with the war of the affected areas and built entirely new settlements required a complete infrastructure to monitor these settlements and meet the basic needs of the population in this area. For the people of Batajnica, Busi, Bolt, Altine or someone living on the Blue Horizons, the most important question is whether they will get their way to their gates and sidewalk so that their child can go to school safely. These are the questions with which people come to the municipality, because they expect the municipality to solve it, as logically as it is. It will be difficult for someone from the City Administration, who sits in Nikola Pasic Square or at the administration on March 27th to adequately consider problems and to set priorities for one resident, for example, from Zemun Polje. But these amendments to the law, the municipality gets jurisdiction in the reconstruction of sidewalks, public lighting, plumbing and sewerage, because it best knows the problems on the ground and will be able to adequately respond to the demands of its fellow citizens. Something completely new to this law is the agricultural inspection in the area of control of the application of measures prescribed by the city of Belgrade for land owners, i.e. land users, as well as the control of the use of agricultural land under the annual programme of protection, planning and use of the agricultural land brought by the city of Belgrade. It is little known that 80% of Belgrade's total territory is agricultural land. The Secretary for the Business of the City of Belgrade's City Administration has carried out many of the encouraging measures aimed at fostering the development and improvement of agriculture in Belgrade's territory over the last decade. In Belgrade, there are 33,244 agricultural holdings, 315,300 people in agriculture, 242,000 hectares in total agricultural land, of which 226,000 hectares are farmland. In 2017, about 2,000 hectares were leased under the right of a cross-referencing lease. The area that was given for use without payment of fees is 847 hectares. The land is awarded to the Faculty of Agriculture in Zemun, the High Agricultural School in Obrenovac, Krnjeca, agricultural institutes and the like. The funding of 40% of the total revenue achieved, generated by the state-owned agricultural land lease on the territory of the city of Belgrade, is the city's income. These funds are used under the annual programme of protection, regulation and use of agricultural land. Given that the territory of the city covers about 260,000 hectares of agricultural land, the need to establish a agricultural inspection that would control the application of the measures prescribed by the city is fully justified. Given the proposed extension of the Belgrade city's jurisdiction, which concerns the establishment of a agricultural inspection, it is likely necessary to change the organisational structure, change the number of employees. So far, the inspection work has been on the republican level, with a total of three inspectors, who had to cover complete Serbia. You will agree that it was really necessary to approach this solution. A major problem in previous years was the issue of anti-building protection jurisdiction in Belgrade's territory. We met, down the road, with problems and at meetings of the City Assembly, where every time the city went into violation when he was getting anti-urban missiles, because he had no right to do so, since the Republic was in charge of that part. Thanks to the laws that have been passed in the meantime, this power is passed on to the city, and the city can transfer to municipalities, so I hope that in the coming period this service will function more adequately. A newspaper is being introduced, too, that it will be able to set up a guard service. The basic activity of the agricultural service is to provide all agricultural cultures from vegetables, fruit growing and warfare to forests located on agricultural land. Under the field guard, a person who has the property of an official, who carries out measurements, direct protection of agricultural land, crops, crops, so far, Polish roads, irrigation and disposal channels from Polish damage, equipment and facilities on agricultural land. A very important addition of legislation on the need to establish these jobs between the city and city municipalities in the area of the adoption of spatial and urban plans on the territory of the city of Belgrade as regards the adoption of certain urban plans is also proposed. Namely, the Law on Planning and Construction and Determination of the Competent Authority, which is the Assembly and the Units of Local Self-Government, for the adoption of individual plans from the jurisdiction of local self-government units, in a indirect way excluded the possibility of dividing these transactions between the city of Belgrade and the city municipalities and, for this reason, the proposed addition establishes the possibility that certain urban plans can also be adopted by the city municipalities. This solution contributes to a more rational and efficient performance of these tasks in the territory of the city. In the event that certain urban plans are established by the City Municipality for its territory, the City Municipality educates the Commission of which one third of the commission members are proposed by the city, while two thirds of the commissions are members of the municipality whose territory is due to amend the existing urban plan. In relation to Article 6, there is also an exception to the establishment of public enterprises by certain city municipalities in Belgrade's territory. This is about public utility companies, since the organisation and provision of municipal activities is one of the original competences of local self-government units. Thus, some of these activities, i.e. providing conditions for their performance, are distributed between the city and the city municipalities of Barajevo, Grocka, Lazarec, Mladenovac, Obrenovac, Sopot and Surcin. The performance of these activities is foreseen for urban municipalities that have invested in their municipal systems in their area for decades, which are outside the public utility system established by the city of Belgrade. For this reason, it is necessary to provide for the possibility in the area of these urban municipalities to establish public enterprises by urban municipalities which can be monitored in a comprehensive manner and, in certain cases, finance their work. This is especially true, given that it is primarily not all urban municipalities, but mostly so-called so-called municipalities. the suburban municipalities that once had the legal opportunity to set up public enterprises and which were currently performing certain municipal activities and organised by establishing their public enterprises. In addition, the bill provides that urban municipalities can educate, i.e. to abolish local communities and other forms of local self-government in their territory, as well as that the law establishing the local community, in accordance with the Statute of the City of Belgrade, will establish the tasks performed by the local community, bodies, bodies, bodies, bodies, decision-making methods, as well as the procedure and selection of councils and other bodies of the local community, as well as other issues of importance for the work of the local community, i.e. other forms of local self-government. This solution is foreseen, starting with the fact that urban municipalities have more direct contact with citizens from their territory, that they are familiar with their needs and problems, and thus also with the needs of education, i.e. the abolition of local communities in their area. This solution is more celery and should contribute to a more efficient and direct meeting of the needs and interests of the local population in urban areas, as well as villages in the area of urban municipalities. These are just some of the important issues for working in the city, which have shown a number of shortcomings in the previous period. I am convinced that the proposed changes and additions to the Law on Main Labour will contribute to the more efficient and better work of the city of Belgrade to the satisfaction of all its citizens. The SDPS parliamentary group in the voting day will support the draft amending and supplementing law on the capital, as well as the proposed decisions on the agenda of this session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54763	Thank you, colleague Zivkovic. The word has the People's MP Vojislav Vujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54764	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Ministers with associates, this law on the capital, as far as the JS parliamentary group is concerned, may have another extension that would have been about to begin. These were pre-election promises in the elections for the city of Belgrade, and I remember that the leaders, first of all, of the coalition that I belong to the SPS, JS, and right in the municipalities you listed today, made these promises. Of course, this is the success of the entire ruling coalition and proof that pre-election promises are being fulfilled. On the other hand, Mr. Minister, I feel like we have some two Serbs. One Serbia is Belgrade, the other Serbia is everything else. Facts continue to show that several thousand people move from the interior to Belgrade every year. That's not a good trend. One thing you said, and I didn't find it in the material, quote, you said Belgrade was another agricultural continent after Vojvodina. It is another clear signal and I congratulate the city of Belgrade and congratulate the people who lead Belgrade, so they should fight for their city, but this is one message to everyone else, to all the other mayors, to the presidents of the municipalities that they have to work harder and that we must not allow that, in addition to all the primates that the city of Belgrade has, it is slowly becoming the centre of agricultural production. It's a big project and we all have to work together on it. Today, in front of my parliamentary group, I am giving myself the right to talk about the city of Belgrade and I want to point out that one of the few, if not the only political party that has its own parliamentary group in the Serbian Parliament, which is JS, is our headquarters only outside Belgrade. JS headquarters is in Jagodina, but it certainly does not mean that we do not respect and love Belgrade, we are aware of the strength of the city of Belgrade and of course the picture of the city of Belgrade is the first image the world can see and gain about Serbia. The most important part of the law that the JS parliamentary group will vote for is precisely that part of decentralisation, giving greater authority to the Belgrade suburban municipalities, as you have now divided, and that is commendable, that is good. This means that their ideas, the ideas of voters in these municipalities, will somehow be easier to implement. According to a colleague earlier - it is difficult to escort all suburban municipalities from the city centre. It's a good thing that farmers are being introduced. It may not seem so serious, but in addition to a large number of dumps that, unfortunately, do not exist only in Belgrade, it is a matter of non-culture, dissuasion, and very often we can see it in some protected park environments, not in the surroundings of the city of Belgrade. That's good. Personally, by representing my President Dragan Markovic Palma's thesis, I can't praise that part of the municipal police force, that there should be more of them too. Certainly the city of Belgrade, unlike all other smaller cities, is necessary. They have their own influence. Their sense of existence in a city this big, but we're not in favour of smaller cities giving themselves the right to bring in municipal police. You may be one of the most important changes, which I will now highlight here, which is that these ten city municipalities will in future legalize up to 400 square meters, issue building permits of up to 1,500 square meters. The suburban municipalities will legalise up to 3,000 square meters, issue construction permits up to 5,000 square meters. It's a great thing, first of all in the fight for investors who are always missing, however much this government has brought in the investor, and it's brought in this, this gives people at the bar, the presidents of these municipalities, we give them a chance to show how capable they are too, how hard they can be, not only the government that brings investors, but here, for the first time and 10 suburban municipalities gets one serious authority. The law will allow suburban municipalities with the consent of the city to have their own public enterprises, as well as that the city can transfer its original powers to suburban municipalities, which has not been the case so far. That's exactly what we're talking about, and that's the main force of this law that we're going to vote for. What kind of a string of authority follows? In addition to the agricultural inspection, there are greater powers in education, sports, even some powers, which concern the city of Belgrade, and I don't know if there are any more similar cities when it comes to abortions. This law on the capital was passed in 2007 and since then, many laws that are indirectly related to this law have suffered certain changes and changes and this is a good time that we have all agreed upon, well, after about 12 years. You said that decentralisation would be completed when municipalities, especially suburban municipalities, set out to create service centers, so that even most of the work that citizens need to do in the municipality, could be done in settlements that are part of that municipality. You said that so far you have formed a centre, I suppose you're satisfied with the work of that centre and of course JS has always spoken, that's what I'm saying and now, that local self-governments are just supposed to be instruments that serve the citizens and that they need to be citizens at the service. I don't know what more I could owe around this bill, I repeat what's most important to you, which is that the JS parliamentary group will support this law in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54765	Thank you, colleague Vujic. The word has a folk emissary, Ana Karadzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54766	I thank the chairman. Dear Minister Ruzic with his associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a law on the capital that aims to regulate the position of the city of Belgrade, as a business, financial, traffic and cultural centre of the Republic of Serbia. What we heard today is that centralisation is a key change to this Capital Act and that this will bring the capital and all the services of the capital closer to the citizens, that urban municipalities will become the service of citizens. City municipalities have been at the service of citizens so far, only the problem since 2011, when a new statute of the city was brought in, when the city led the previous government, was completely centralised. All the authorities are centralized, so the municipalities, both of these urban and suburban municipalities, were absolutely reduced to local communities. It is important to point out that these amendments to the law of the municipality will be divided into suburban and urban areas, there will be seven suburban and 10 urban municipalities, which is very important for the reasons that Lazarec and Mladenov cannot have the same needs, such as the Vracar municipality, nor can they, as it is said from the central city, from the Square of Nikola Pasic know what Mladenov or Lazarovac needs. It is also important to point out that, first of all, I would like to say that I served as a member of the Municipal Council, the municipality of Voždovac, and that I was present when we were making citizens' receptions and when citizens came with some of the most basic requirements and requests, which we were not able to solve as a city municipality, but we had to send them to the city of Belgrade, to the city administration, then to return them back to the municipality, etc., and the citizens were very dissatisfied, because we couldn't solve some of the most basic problems. It was the same case with companies and investors who wanted to invest because it was a much more complicated procedure to get some basic documentation. Now that changes by introducing different criteria for legalisation. As we have heard from city leaders, the city's municipalities will be able to legalize up to 400 square meters and give construction permits up to 1,500 square meters, suburban as many as 3,000 square meters, for legalisation and building permits up to 5,000 square meters, which really enables investors to get the documentation they need to invest their resources. It is also very important to enable suburban municipalities, such as these amendments of the law, to be established with the consent of the city, public enterprises. I'm talking about suburban municipalities. As regards the town municipality of Voždovac itself, I must stress that in the period since 2009, the coalition around the SNS was in the township of Voždovac, and in the city was the previous government, that the city municipality of Voždovac 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012, and in 2013, the smallest possible budget that was below each minimum was allocated, and that it could not be invested either in the waterway or in the sewer. So, the town municipality of Voždovac, which is one of the municipalities located near the city center, which has its suburban and persuasion part, has been begging for water and sewerage for 30 years, but it could not have happened until 2014, until the temporary authority took over. This is very important, that if there is a difference in the future, it means that if one government is in the city and the other one is in the municipality, this decentralisation will help the citizens not to suffer, that they can solve their problems in their dwellings. When we talk about decentralisation, we are not only talking about decentralisation from the city to the municipality, but the municipalities will be building their service centres, and citizens will be able to turn to their own housing unit for some of the problems, requests and advice they need. This absolutely does not mean that the city administration will decrease its importance, but rather means that it will deal with capital investments, as it has so far. I would stress certain things that have been invested in the previous period and years. Belgrade has become a positive example of the region's economic environment, meaning a good economic environment that attracts investors. Also, they say Belgrade is a town of cranes, when spring comes, because it invests a lot in various infrastructure projects, in rail infrastructure, road infrastructure, has been invested in a new bus station, in development in energy, public lighting, plumbing, sewers, etc. I could count a lot, starting with Pupina Bridge, reconstruction of the railway station "Prokop" access stations, Boulevard of heroes from Košar, the streets of Duke Stepe, Roosevelt Street, Slavi Square, Bulevar Liberation, etc., as well as about factories needed for suburban settlements, such as water purification in the Great Village, the water factory "Makis". So it's invested in all the fields that make it possible for citizens to live better and have a better standard by bringing investors and reducing the number of unemployed people. I am convinced that this way of functioning and the city administration will continue to invest in capital projects and that by decentralising the city administration, it will allow citizens to be satisfied that their problems are being solved, that they are not waiting any longer, by introducing an electronic administration not to wait in line and to complete their demands and jobs as soon as possible. I would like to stress that the PS-NSS-USS parliamentary group will support this proposal in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54767	Thank you, colleague Karadzic. The word has Tatjana Macura. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54768	I thank the chairman. Dear Minister, I am very sorry that it is about this law, which today is on the agenda of the Assembly that lacks a full public debate. So, somewhere else according to the data, I tried to find data in these two days when it was even able to open a public debate about the bill's amendment, and I found that Deputy Mayor Goran Vesic announced in 2015 that this law would finally be found in the assembly procedure, which means there was room to be from 2015 until today, because it was four years ago, there was room to open a wide public debate on the draft of this law. So, except that the council of the Belgrade City Assembly did not have the opportunity to get acquainted with the draft amendments and amendments to the law, which they are specifically dealing with, did not have the opportunity for citizens of Belgrade, above all, to also get acquainted with what will be the subject of today's debate in the Assembly. Less or less this draft law today serves, specifically to comply with some other laws and these are specific laws on amendments to the Law on Local Self-Government, the Law on Planning and Construction, the Law on Public Property, the Law on housing and maintenance of buildings, the Law on reducing the risk of disasters and the management of emergency situations, the Law on Higher Education and the Law on Employees in the AP and the Units of Local Self-Government. With that in mind, then, we are not surprised that this law is in some small amount than was expected. However, there are some provisions which, unfortunately, seem to me to be either a little bit better arranged, or a little more clarified in the very proposal for this law, or simply the consequences of the lack of public debate, and then we do not have these more detailed explanations. I'm gonna start somewhere from the start. So, in this first member of the amendment relating to Articles 5 and 2 and Articles 5 to 8, it is said that everything in the public property of the city of Belgrade, so I have a question for you from the beginning – is there a possibility to privatise the municipal network in the territory of the city of Belgrade at some point, given that we have analysed the way in which public property will practically come into the possession of public-communal enterprises, is this the way to privatise these public utility companies at some point? Perhaps I am wrong, and perhaps I am not mistaken, I would like you to explain it to me, is this attitude that says – in the public property of the city of Belgrade, and then refers to the municipal network in the territory of the city of Belgrade, to check whether it is contrary to the Law on Public Property, or Articles 10 and 11? That's what I'd like to get in response to this misunderstanding. What we were probably most concerned about in this Bill of Amendments and Laws, and what is left as the biggest uncertainty, are these competences of the city of Belgrade, and I would first of all look back at it, some of which are so cosmetic at first sight, i.e. changes in terms of cosmetics, but some of the practices from the previous few months show us that they are not really cosmetical and that we really need to deal with these issues a little better. For example, this point 5) when it says it is in Belgrade's jurisdiction to decide on street names, squares, settlements and other areas of settlement in its area. I will remind you, in December 2018, the Belgrade City Assembly adopted a decision to rename a street of the township of Grocka in Brace Simonovic. So, to the personal insistence of then-President of the Municipality of Grock, who is to remind you in the meantime that he was a commanding officer to attack journalist Milan Jovanovic and that by burning down his house, then he was shot at the threshold to ensure that he could not get out of that house. So it is a scandal for the city of Belgrade to adopt such a decision because it was a personal wish. By no means do the Simonovic brothers deserve to be named after the street in any municipality in Belgrade, especially in the municipality in which this, mildly said incident took place. The sixth point is also questionable. So in Belgrade's jurisdiction under this law, the city of Belgrade will be able to regulate conditions, procedures and ways of obtaining and making available to construction land and other real estates in the public property of the city of Belgrade, in accordance with the law governing public property. So we do not currently have a clear list of building land on the territory of the city of Belgrade and what are the properties owned by the city of Belgrade. So this should be resolved as soon as possible. In the era of digitization, which we so boast and boast about all our mouths, this question cannot remain unresolved. In order for us to give the city of Belgrade jurisdiction to manage this property, we must first of all know what is available. I'll remind you of one case, I know that the minister or bar in the biography is the data that I have, that he's from the territory of the city municipality of Zemun, which I am from, so I'm going to be doing a little bit more in the analysis of this bill to the municipality of Zemun. So, let me remind you, in 2017, a part of the coastal fortress, or former military hydrobase, was sold on the Zemun Kem. The way it was sold that part of the coast is quite discriminatory. So, in 2006, a regulation was adopted by the Ministry of Defence of the so-called "Defence". A master plan which, therefore, was the beginning of how at all one public good, one part of our public property actually became the subject of a purchase that eventually became private property. Then in 2014 the deputy mayor, Andrija Mladenovic, in May, decided that this plot could be estranged, so that in July 2017, it would be sold to a private person for 300 000 euros if I did not cheat, or translated into euro, which is about 36 million dinars. It was sold to a private person, who is the son of a former secretary of sports and youth with strange living circumstances. So, the question is just how did it come to be that the son of a former secretary of sports and youth, who once was, I'll agree with you, the assistant minister of sports and youth, came to the opportunity to alienate this land at all, so that after a few months of development, he would ask for money in the same value, allegedly for the equipment of a future sports facility for which he got his license and the way he managed to own that land was precisely because he wanted to make, officially, a sports facility. I'm a responsible man now, and I'm sure you're in progress too, and neither does that sports facility exist, nor has construction ever begun. The owner, the private owner of this facility from the Development Fund, did not receive 36 million dinars, received 30 million dinars. So, the scandal is that we have come to what was public good becoming private good, that we pay the money from the budget practically and to lose every further lead. It scares me that this provision will mean the same thing in the future in some different locations in Belgrade's territory. It's also point 11, she'd like to encourage me when you say it's not like that, so if she can comment on it. So, the 11th point, as far as Belgrade City's competence is concerned, says -- it is controlling the realisation of the dedicated use of funds transferred from Belgrade's budget to representative associations in culture where independent artists have acquired their status, for which the city of Belgrade provides funds from the Belgrade city's budget for participating in the payment of contributions to pension disability insurance and health insurance contributions in accordance with the law governing culture. It works pretty naively when you look at this point, that the city needs to control whether someone has paid taxes and contributions. What we're interested in is how we know what representative associations are in culture since we have one, let's say, last situation with regard to the Games Festival and boardwoman Aja Jung, where she came practically into a disagreement with the Ministry of Culture. So this provision can also be very misused. Point 18 says – it issues building permits for construction of buildings and other acts in the process of a united procedure, as well as other acts in accordance with the law governing planning and construction. So this point is very vulnerable to corruption, we're all aware of that, especially the impact of certain municipalities. One of those who are on a major blow is the city municipality of Zemun, one of the colleagues was talking about it and saying that the issue should be settled. I'd like to know what it's going to look like in practice. Point 21, I think that these days it is quite current, same as with Zemun, determines the parts of the coast and water space on which hydro-technical facilities can be built, set up floating facilities and boat berths, or places for the distribution of ships, conditions and way of setting up floating objects and berths for boats, including issuing authorisations for their installation, etc. So, I'm sure you're aware that the recent parking of a public-communal company in Zemun, one part of the parking lot, and that according to the 2003 shared regulation plan of the old part of Zemun plans to build a boat port. That would not be controversial now because the plan says that it would be 20 feet [21 m] long ships, which there are also technical conditions for it to be so. But the citizens I'm in contact with have a concern that it won't be like that. I ask a question about this – is there a possibility that ships that are more than 21 metres long, for which we do not have technical conditions to issue permits in Zemun and to continue to build a port at all? If it is ships that are 120 metres long, then they have no possibility to agree at all, given the depth of the Danube River at that time, and who knows Zemun will know that this is the old part of Zemun and that there are no conditions at all to agree to even road traffic that would allow further transport, since the streets are very narrow and unacceptable. So that explains it to me right now. We have here in Article 6, which refers to Article 20, and we still have such members, one seems to me, not to mention, we mostly have other members of the competition for certain positions where this law is now in line with the Law on Higher Education. We are asked whether we are going to get into a situation where competitions are actually being debated for certain people, since now it is the possibility that it is not the condition that those who compete in those places have completed a law school, but that they have education in the scientific field of legal science, etc. So it's quite a broad definition, and it seems to me that it can be quite misused as to the application of this law. There is also this Article 9 relating to Article 28, which speaks of submitting reports to the city council by the mayor of the city council. He says that reporting can be done at any time, or at least twice a year, no longer applies. I'm just going to remind you of a law that passed through the congregation procedure, which also had a similar provision, which had a significant impact on the quality of our citizens' lives, it was the Pension Reduction Act, when one of the MPs submitted the amendment and allowed that there was no deadline until when the law was in force, which practically lasted longer than it was in the draft law, or that law that entered into the assembly procedure was made possible. So when we set up a provision like this and we say that it can file a report, but that there is no obligation or exact number of reports over the year, that means they can and can never submit that report. That would be all I have to comment on this bill for now.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54769	Thank you, colleague Macura. The word has Alexander Markovic, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54770	I don't know if you've noticed, the chairman and you ministers, one law of law. Whenever the opposition has no argument, then it goes – why there was no public debate and why an emergency procedure, in the absence of arguments. Let's demystify the concept of public debate. Firstly, when it comes to amending the law, as is the case with this proposal on amendments to the laws, which are not large volumes, where several members are changed, there is no need for a public debate of that kind. But it wasn't the point here at all to get into the scale of things, but to say that there wasn't a public debate, that they didn't have time to prepare, and they had time to prepare. So on May 6th, this law entered the procedure. What's May today? May 20th. So 15 days they had to prepare, write the amendments, read, discuss. The fact that they spent time in tents, parks, streets, that's their problem, with their friends. This is a law that has been discussed for a long time in Serbia, both the professional public and the ordinary public. It's an object of wide interest. The old law was passed in 2007, we didn't bring it, it was brought by your friends. Since then, there has been a kind of public debate, if you will, about this law. I know this well, for 12 years in a row, I've been a council member of a city council, I've been involved in the work of local self-government, and I know there's a need to change this law, and I know that all the time there's been some kind of public debate and controversy about the adoption of a new law, especially from the moment that the most terrible centralization of the city of Belgrade has been carried out, and it doesn't matter at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54771	Thank you, colleague Markovic. The right to replica has Tatiana Macura. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54772	Thank you, Chairman. So it's not a question of whether we had time to prepare for the debate. So we have had enough time to prepare ourselves as MPs for discussion, given that the scope of this law is small and that this is also a small amount of time available. What is the problem is, this is the misunderstanding the MP showed. The public debate does not serve to prepare MPs for the debate, but serves to direct citizens to the draft laws to be adopted by the National Assembly, and not only by citizens, but also by the professional public. So, here is the lack of public debate, that is, the fact, I have not invented anything, the professional public has not been introduced, nor have the council members of the city of Belgrade, nor have any other committee members, as well as any other citizen of Belgrade or of the state. As for all the other communications that I have with me or with the organisation that I belong to, which is the Party of Modern Serbia, and my colleague across the street, I have to fence myself once more, we are not members of the Alliance for Serbia, nor do we have anything to do with fellow opposition representative Dragan Gilas, and in this regard it is entirely inappropriate to send such remarks. Today, the debate on the capital is on the agenda and all the other comments you have made after you have finished commenting on my presentation are inappropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54773	Thank you, Mrs. Macura. The right to replica has Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54774	I thank the chairman. Speaking of misunderstandings, we had a remark that the council of the City Assembly had not consulted and had not delivered an opinion, and I can't define that kind of ignorance of things we could hear from the previous pay phone, but here I find a connection with a certain Nikola Jovanovic who is probably the head of the council group of this Alliance for Serbia in the City Assembly who made the same remarks this morning. Watch what that genius says. The head of the Alliance for Serbia's parliamentary group in the Belgrade City Assembly said today that the adoption of a new law on the capital without public debate, without the knowledge of the committee, therefore, also the previous speaker made the remark. What kind of knowledge of the councilman? Who is interested in the opinion of the local congregation’s committee when it comes to the bill? This is about the ultimate ignorance of things in Serbia. This is the National Assembly. The National Assembly is the only one in power and the only one has the opportunity to pass laws. Now let's ask and consult all local congregations, so all 17 city halls, to convene the assembly sessions of municipalities and to give an opinion on this bill. What are you talking about? What councilmen? Or maybe it's the result of frustration that the previous speaker is not a city councilman, and you blame the citizens of Belgrade for that. The citizens of Belgrade did not want you to become a city councilman, and she was a candidate, high-ranking on the Dvori list. Let us return only briefly to the topic of public debate and objections when it comes to public debates. We had, the chairman, more public debates than a group whose previous pay phone belongs to. These were public debates, very comprehensive public debates in various drafts of the law, including a public debate on the proposal of Tijana's law. How did that end? As the previous speaker did not come to plead, she did not come to vote for the law, and she runs the NGO "Moms Are The Law".
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54775	Thank you, colleague Markovic. I think you're a little too sharp and you can't compare, yet, colleague Macuru with Nikola Jovanovic. That's, yes, incomparable. Do you want a replica, Mrs. Macura? No, I don't. Milisav Petronijevic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54776	The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers with fellow Members, fellow MPs and MPs, when it comes to amending and supplementing the Capital Act, which is on the agenda today, I will at first say what it came from, in order to talk later on about what happened. So it came from the following, that the Constitution says -- the position of the city of Belgrade, the capital of the Republic of Serbia, is being governed by the Law on the capital and the Statute of the city of Belgrade. Both the Constitution and the Law on Local Self-Government, territorialisation says Belgrade is a special unit of local self-government and a special territorial unit and has competences entrusted by the Constitution and the law to the municipality and the city, and, I stress, the Law on the capital can be entrusted with other competences, from which it has taken place. The government has proposed amendments to the Capital Act, which are on the agenda, given what I was talking about, so constitutional and legal basis, given the experience in the work and functioning of the city. Given the government's commitment to the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, as well as the city's authorities to ensure more efficient and quality performance of Belgrade's tasks on the basis of its special constitutional – legal position and in line with developed capacities, professional, organisational, human resources that exist in Belgrade, and what is the point is to make the work of the city's authorities and city municipalities much more effective and to make the needs of all citizens in the territory of Belgrade more balanced. The SPS parliamentary group will vote in favour of the proposed law on changes and additions to the Capital Act, because we are convinced that in this way we are voting for a better life of citizens, we are voting for decentralisation of the city and greater jurisdiction of the city's municipalities, we are voting for a decision level that is closer to the citizens. These are all the reasons why we are determined to give full support to this bill. There are approximately three characteristics of this proposed law. It is one that regulates the position of the city of Belgrade as the capital, another is the creation of an opportunity to transfer powers to the city's municipalities and the third is the harmonisation with laws, meanwhile passed in relation to the law that has been going on for 12 years. When it comes to Belgrade's position, I repeat, it has its specificity, its specificity and because of its size, the number of inhabitants and that it is the economic, financial, traffic, cultural centre of Serbia and ultimately the capital of the Republic of Serbia. Belgrade is both administrative and educational, and university, and Serbia's health centre, and not only belongs to Belgraders, it belongs to Serbia, and we see more and more belong to Europe. That's got to be meant. We support the government's policy, which aims to ensure that Serbia develops evenly in all its parts, and that is the policy of the Serbian government, which shows, in this recent time, by opening factories in all parts of Serbia, by bringing investments, by building infrastructure, here, we can now say by building a network of highways across Serbia, which all contributes to achieving this goal. In the same way or on the same track are city authorities, and that is why I want to make it particularly clear that they are thinking the same way, when it comes to Belgrade. So, as Serbia needs to develop evenly, it is necessary to develop evenly in Belgrade the needs of all citizens of Belgrade, from those who almost to Ljiga, to those behind Padinska Skele, from both sides of Kosmaj to those of Stara Paz. All of them are citizens of Belgrade and the task is, which is what this city government insists, so that all of them can meet their needs evenly. I think it's also proposed to change the law that way, that way. When it comes to Belgrade's jurisdiction, one part, so the law that matters, I think it's characteristic, that it's a double decentralisation. One is decentralisation from the Republic to the city, and the other is decentralisation the ability to transfer power from city to city municipalities and, of course, the decision to bring as close as possible to the citizens of Belgrade. Here in a whole series of jurisdiction, I'll only be stuck on someone. For example, construction, reconstruction, maintenance and management of public and untegorized roads. It's a simple sentence, but it means a lot. In Belgrade, which has the largest network of traffic and roads, in practice there were problems not knowing what belonged to the state, what belongs to the city. Of course, it's a matter of responsibility, when it comes to reflection, reconstruction, etc. There is now something like that, which belongs to everything but the state roads and highways belong to Belgrade, and Belgrade has the necessary resources and capacities to maintain it. In addition to the significant responsibilities related to fire protection, emergency management, construction land availability, the largest wealth of one city, municipal waste management, anti-urban protection financing, and so on, I will again remain in one more jurisdiction for a short time, and this issue of building permits. Why am I holding on to that? Because it is one jurisdiction that allows the issue of building permits to be transferred to urban municipalities. So, to urban municipalities in general, and not just to certain urban municipalities and, of course, a much larger number of squares than it has ever been before. Also, I will remain very short on agricultural inspection operations, which is due to be moved to Belgrade, of course, in the part of the control that Belgrade is responsible for, which is prescribed by Belgrade for owners, i.e. land users. Why does it matter? A little public knowledge, the minister mentioned it today, is the city of Belgrade, after Vojvodina's largest agricultural region with 242 thousand hectares. So, one huge fortune, when it comes to it. The acquisition of agricultural inspection will, of course, take particular care of land issue, land use, etc. When it comes to further competences of symbols and names of settlements and the possibility of transfer to urban municipalities, maintaining public manifestations of importance for the city, I want to remain in one of the responsibilities that the city is taking, and that is to implement the measures and funding of the project in order to encourage birth and birth in its territory. So, in addition to those measures that the government, the state, is taking, Belgrade is taking on itself, of course, to invest in such a thing, in accordance with material opportunities and own resources, and this project is of the highest importance of state. Finally, I will mention the adoption of spatial urban plans, a very important issue, but also for the reason that it gives the City of Belgrade the opportunity to adopt urban plans, certain municipalities, is primarily thought of by those municipalities that are special continents, some call them border municipalities, the term of suburban municipalities, otherwise all of them are urban, there are no other expressions, which are Obrenovac, Lazarevic, Mladenovac, Barajevo, Sopot, Surcin and Grocka, that they can bring their urban plans, of course, in line with the plans of higher rank, are thought of city plans, etc., another significant authority, to say, which the City of Belgrade receives, and conveys to urban municipalities. When it comes to the second part of this law, I would particularly like to point out as the greatest value of this law, except of course these significant competences, which is to create an opportunity for Belgrade to transfer to the city's municipalities in its composition a larger number of jobs, thus allowing the decentralisation of the city, so the other direction, but also to lower the level of decision-making closer to the citizens. Full support for this bill in this area. Why? The city's municipalities are in direct contact with citizens, thus making it more efficient, more efficient to do business in the city's jurisdiction, which is, of course, also one of the goals that matters. The other thing is, it's about the transfer of jurisdiction to the city's municipalities that in fact Belgrade is divided into two zones, I'm not saying formally again, but we're practically talking, it's one city where there are 10 municipalities, and the other is, we call it in the daily speech of the suburban community, otherwise it's city municipalities. Why? Because, given that it is necessary for these municipalities to pass on greater powers, to bring citizens' decisions as close as possible as possible, as close as possible to them. In view of the depravity of the territory of the city, given the fact that certain urban municipalities represent urban continents, given that they are different administrative centres for the area, and of course given the objective of creating conditions for more efficient and quality performance of work from both authorities and the city, and in particular the performance of municipal activities in the area of urban municipalities. Just a few details when we talk about reason. Compared to Belgrade's 3224km-square town, these seven municipalities, which I am talking about Lazarec Obrenovac, Mladenovac, Barajevo, Sopot, Surcin and Grocka, cover two-thirds of Belgrade's surface, 2127 square kilometers. So one vast area, 137 settlements and almost 400,000 inhabitants. So, a great reason for Belgrade to transfer powers to these municipalities, to a greater extent, although all the municipalities of the city will be given more authority than ever before, but these seven municipalities will get even greater, because the special continents, large, administrative centres, each one has its own characteristics, some particularity. Grocka with nearly 90,000 inhabitants, Obrenovac with close to 80,000 inhabitants, with a powerful single combination, Lazarec 60 thousand, with a powerful mining energy combination, but also with its specificities and specialities to be addressed, which is that thanks to that mining energy combination that supplies half of Serbia with electricity, the air, land and water is destroyed, and that there is a lot to be done and done there, to meet its needs to be able to live in quality. A young man who pioneered industrialization, an industrial centre that was unfortunately destroyed and whose industry was destroyed by robbery privatisation, dosovski, and became only one small Palanka, Surcin, Sopot who had the status of the municipality and the bearer was a small economy, the status of the municipality in 1905, etc. So these are all special municipalities, special municipalities with specific problems, specific and characteristic of the area, compared to this in the Old Town, because there is a need for people to have a way, water, sewerage, electricity, etc. The bigger problem here is that in one part of the unideal opposition in Belgrade, which Belgrade regulates its city, to be attractive and accessible, not only to Belgraders but also to Serbia, and to those outside the state of Serbia. Now that time, the idealess part of the opposition has the city's policy of arguing with traffic signs, construction machines, which govern the city, in other words with the desire to meet, to stop Belgrade. There's one more thing I want to say, draw attention, and that's further decentralisation, or regulation of local self-government. Belgrade is a city that has a large population, municipalities and settlements. For this reason, it was necessary to establish ways to form or shut down the local communities, and this was given to the authorities of the city municipalities, which is absolutely correct, given that they are closest to the citizens of Belgrade. In the end, I'll end up with what I started with. So, the aim of this law is to ensure a more efficient and quality performance of the Belgrade city's affairs, and the proposed legislative solutions will make the work of the authorities and cities and urban municipalities much more efficient, leading to a more equal meeting of the needs of all citizens in Belgrade's territory, I repeat, from those close to Ljig, to those behind Padinska Skele, from those on this side of Kosmaja, to those near Stara Paz. Repeat, we will support the proposed amendments and additions to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54777	Thank you, Mr. Petronievich. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go, colleague Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54778	Thank you, dear Vice President of the National Assembly, Mr. Marinkovic. Dear Mr. Ruzic with his associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I also welcome these pigeons in the park outside the presidency, who are not with us today. Today, we have a very important bill of law before us, a bill on amendments to the law on the capital, which will allow for more quality and efficient implementation of the Belgrade city's affairs, and given the specificity of the constitutional and legal position of the city of Belgrade, which, by law so far, has not been consistently implemented, but also the specificity of Belgrade compared to other units of local self-government, both because of its size and population. Especially since Belgrade is the economic, financial, traffic and cultural centre of Serbia. The Serbian Progressive Party strongly supports the proposed changes, because they primarily allow what is most important, which is the decentralisation of the city of Belgrade. They increase the responsibilities of municipalities, one word lowers the level of decision-making closer to the citizens and thus increases the quality of life of Belgraders. The Serbian Progressive Party has promised citizens exactly what we are doing today, decentralisation of the city and the possibility of citizens being more involved in the decision-making process in their municipalities. Unlike some others who promised the same, who declared themselves to be decentralisation, and then in practice they did all the opposite. The best example for this is Dragan Djilas, who conducted, as we said, the most brutal centralisation of the city of Belgrade, with Belgrade municipalities, both urban and suburban, literally at the level of the local community. So we came to a paradoxical situation, which is that any municipality in Serbia, even the smallest one, has more jurisdiction than, say, the city municipality of Novi Belgrade, or Vračar, or Mladenovac, Obrenovac, Lazarevic or any other city municipality in Belgrade. The existence of the city’s municipalities has been completely unthinked in this way. Perhaps that was more drastically seen on the case of the so-called so-called. suburban municipalities, when you have to go to town for everything. There is an objective question of the purpose of these municipalities, so - why elections for the municipal assembly, why the assembly of the municipality, why the president, the larger, the organs? Why all this if that community has no jurisdiction and there's nothing to do? We are now changing and introducing two zones in Belgrade, suburban and urban. So, the city zone will consist of 10 municipalities: Vračar, Stari Grad, Sava Venac, Starar, Palilula, Voždovac, Rakovica, Chukarica, Novi Belgrade and Zemun. The suburban zone of seven municipalities: Barajevo, Grodska, Lazarec, Mladenovac, Obrenovac, Sopot and Surcin and a clear division of responsibilities and the creation of opportunities for the city of Belgrade to transfer more jobs to these municipalities than has been the case so far. Let's get in line. The possibility that municipal networks on the territory of the city of Belgrade can be owned by an operator of municipal activity. In fact, so far, we have had some problems in practice, because investment in the construction and reconstruction of the municipal network could have been done exclusively by an entity owned by the network, not by an operator of municipal activity. By giving them the opportunity to be a public network operator, in order to carry out on their own activities in order to finance, perform and act, achieve additional efficiency and improve quality in providing these utility services. Furthermore, the possibility of establishing public utility companies by certain city municipalities. So this is about these seven suburban municipalities, and if we take into account that the regulation and provision of municipal activities is one of the original competences of local self-government units, and if it is in the light of the fact that it is the suburban municipalities, which once had the opportunity, that is, the legal possibility to set up companies to carry out municipal activities, then it is clear that this solution will achieve a more efficient and quality performance of municipal activities in the area of these municipalities. Furthermore, the possibility of individual urban plans being adopted by urban municipalities, we have heard a lot about this here, suburban municipalities now get the right to take urban plans out of the general regulation plan for their territory, of course with the previous agreement of the city that is necessary. This is also one important newspaper that will contribute to faster development of suburban municipalities and better attracting investors. So the suburban municipality will become more competitive in this way. They've got a chance to do the planning documentation. They have the ability to make plans, they get the consent. They already have the opportunity to issue a building permit. They have the opportunity to legalize. All this when we consider it, there will be no basis why anyone would avoid investors of the suburban municipality. So there's no reason for any of the investors to have any doubt about it anymore. We have already said this, therefore, the possibility of issuing building permits for construction of buildings and other acts in the process of a united procedure and giving the city the opportunity to establish by the Statute the division of business between the city and the city municipalities. So this is a significant provision that gives the city the opportunity to distribute these jobs between the city, on the one hand, and urban municipalities, and in order to do the job more effectively. As we said, but to point out once again, city municipalities will be able to issue construction permits up to 1,500 square meters, which has not been the case so far, and suburban municipalities up to 5,000 square meters. Also, city municipalities will be allowed to legalise facilities up to 400 square meters, and suburban municipalities will allow up to 3,000 square meters. In addition to this, we have here a whole series of new powers on agricultural inspection: education, sport, culture, talent incentives, disaster risk reduction and management in emergency situations, ecology, anti-urban protection, etc., and all in order to make city authorities and municipalities more efficient, as well as in order to say, more uniformly meet the needs of all Belgraders and the interests of all of Belgrade's citizens. This law also provides for harmonisation, as we have heard from the Minister, with a whole series of other resolution laws, such as the Law on Public Property, the Law on Planning and Construction, the Law on Autonomous Provinces and employees in autonomous provinces and local self-government and many other laws. What should be pointed out is that the next step to follow the law is to adopt a new statute of the city of Belgrade, which will further develop the division of competence and further decentralisation of the city. Like we said, this isn't the end of decentralisation. Decentralisation will not end only by obtaining more authority, hence greater jurisdiction from suburban and urban municipalities. The next step is for municipalities, especially suburban municipalities, to start building service centers so that most of the work that citizens need to do in the municipality, they can actually do in their settlements where they live, which are part of that municipality. So further decentralisation, strengthening the city's municipalities' responsibilities, faster development of suburban municipalities and lower levels of decision-making closer to the citizens, is what is the essence of this law, and that is what SNS stands for, unlike some others, here, I will repeat again Dragan Gilas, who, while Belgrade Mayor was only interested in money and how he will be rich and it is clearly seen from countless many affairs in which he was an actor at the time, and the consequences are such that the city of Belgrade remained in charge of more than a billion euros. Gilas, of course, tried on several occasions very clumsyly to challenge the fact, and said that Belgrade's debt was actually about 400, 450, perhaps 500m euros. But he forgot to include in that figure the debts of city public enterprises and institutions and city municipalities. If we take the information that 44 of Gilas' associates or people who worked in the city administration or in the city structures have been arrested and processed since 2013, and members and officials of the Democratic Party and connected persons, then it is quite clear, and those 44 were arrested in eight different affairs, when the city was damaged in excess of eight and a half million euros, then there is a clear situation of theft of the previous city government. We recall several cases, the famous reconstruction affair of King Alexander's Buleuvar, in which the city manager and Gilas's right hand were arrested, along with eight others, on suspicion that they had abused the position and damaged the city by about six million euros. Let's remember the "bus plus" affair and the installation of those validators that caused huge damage to the citizens of Belgrade. Experts estimated that the city was damaged by sixm euros on that occasion. Let us remember the affair of the purchase and installation of underground containers, which were paid the same sixm euros. And there were some arrests. The director of the public "City Cleanliness" and some of his associates have been arrested, and the epilogue is that the city budget has been damaged by sixm euros. Results – thread of container, thread of steam. Let's remember the purchase of 30 trams, so-called "Spanish", I think the public remembers well, who were both rudely overpaid and overpriced for maintenance, and almost dysfunctional. The assessment of experts is that in the total pool in this transaction, damage has been done to the city of as much as 53m euros. Let's remember that Gilas had a scam built by that Big Brother house while he was co-owner of that company, "Emosn Salesksn", if that's what it was called. Let us remember the ‘Watchel Castle’ affair. We remember at the end of the biggest affair, the Mosta affair on Ada, the symbols of the thieving power of Dragan Gilas and the Democratic Party. What is important is to stress that the citizens of Belgrade suffer the consequences of the robbery and destruction of Belgrade today. We and today are returning the debts left to us by Dragan Gilas and that protagonist team from the Democratic Party. But today, the city functions incomparably better, in every sense of that word. We've almost canceled our previous debts, those huge debts of Gilas and the crew. We've put finance in order and reduced the budget deficit. We have significantly reduced unemployment in Belgrade. It's easy to say that it's over at the historic minimum. We have incomparably more capital investments, incomparably more construction sites, over 1,500 active sites at the moment. Over a million squares of building permits are issued annually in Belgrade. We've got more gardens built, homes of health. More than a billion dinars are invested in rebuilding and building health homes. Over 50 health facilities have been renovated and adapted. The new homes of health are in Labud's hill, Mali Mokro Lug, Stepa Stepanović, Jajinci, Borci, Ugrinovci, Kumodraj, Banjaca. It is incomparable to several refurbished schools, parks, playgrounds, cultural institutions. At the very least - more jobs. From all of this, there is a clear difference between the previous city government in Dragan Gilas and the Serbian Progressive Party's city government. For all these reasons, I would like to invite all Members of the People to support the Amendments and Supplements Act on the Capital Day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54779	Thank you, colleague Markovic. The word has a minister, Branko Ruzic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54780	Thank you, Vice President. At the end of this tour, I would like to thank Mr. Markovic and Mr. Petronivic and the MPs Karadzic and Macuri and Vojislav Vujic, Slavica Zivkovic and, of course, Professor Seselj. I think one very important conclusion can be drawn, which is that everyone pointed out, of course, everyone from their own vision, to the significance of these changes and the addition of the Capital Act. I would only repeat that the intensity is, above all, in further decentralisation of the transfer of authority from the Republic to the city level, but also decentralisation and a better organisation within the very relationship between the city of Belgrade and the city municipalities. The heads and representatives of parliamentary groups have already pointed out what the Belgrade city's intensities are about issuing building permits and legalisation, i.e. by giving, I would say, wider powers and covering the city's municipalities themselves, and that is one of the reasons why an emergency procedure was needed. It's something that's quite evident, that there was a narrow throat that we had to, folks say, detach. As for certain criticisms, I must say that the committees have certainly never been part of the legislative activity, but of course the public debates are the place where they participate, they can also participate, of course, as citizens and it is not at all controversial, but I think it is quite clear that the need and wider social interest, the interest of citizens and citizens of Belgrade, and also the economy and investors, that these amendments and additions of the law are done as an emergency procedure. What is mentioned, also as a criticism, as regards reference events, is not the responsibility of the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, but rather the responsibility of the Ministry of Culture. That's quite obvious. In this regard, in a political arena, I certainly understand that different political options also use some examples for their political struggle, and that is not at all controversial. As for the misunderstandings about the Law on Public Property, I will only read Article 3 which clearly states that in the public property are natural wealth, good of general interest and good in the general application which the law found to be in public property, things used by the authorities and organisations of the Republic of Serbia, autonomous provinces and units of local self-government, institutions, public agencies and other organisations whose founder is the Republic of Serbia, an autonomous province, units of local self-government and other things that are in line with the Law on Public Property. So there's no doubt about it here. This is quite clear. As for this local patriotism towards Zemun, it's very sweet and it's not controversial, but it's also not our intensity or jurisdiction to determine how much gauge or length some water objects will be on the rivers. It is our great happiness and wealth that Belgrade has two rivers, Sava and Danube. What was our intention is to allow this law to further decentralisation, a better reorganisation within the very system in Belgrade, that it all works on the well-being and improvement of citizens and citizens, to respect all specificities. He mentioned here, and MP Petronijevic, what a dissension there is, as many as 17 municipalities of different urban continents, rural continents. We mentioned, of course, the importance of agriculture and how many thousands of hectares are being processed in the city of Belgrade and how much this will make it into the budget. In the end, I want to thank all the heads of Parliament, regardless of some critical nuances. I hope that after the break we will hear many more constructive discussions and suggestions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54781	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Members of the People, ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with Article 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I now set a break of one hour. We continue work at 15.00 hours. [[after breaks]] Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Parliament continue to work. The first on the list is MP Yahja Fehratovic. He's not there. The word has a folk MP named Zvonimr Djokic. Here's my colleague, Djokic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54783	I thank the chairman. Dear President, Mr. Minister with Associates, honourable Members of the People, we have before us a Law on the capital, a law that we MPs from the SNS long awaited, and to whom it was high time to bring it. This law will certainly contribute to a better organisation of life and work in Belgrade. It will transfer part of the jurisdiction from the city to the municipal level, and certain matters will be extended to Belgrade, just as the city deserves it, because it is, in any case, something different from other cities and municipalities in Serbia. When laws like this are passed, usually those of different opinions appear, not because they have some arguments and facts against the law, but because, in principle, things are supposed to be against it. When we started building the i.e. We started the "Belgrade on Water", and then we had one opposing side, which was not for construction, which was not for modernising the city of Belgrade. On the opposite side, a group of some yellow ducks, chickens, geese, turkeys, turkeys, which have been assisted, can also be said freely to various white-world rats, in terms of funding. Even then, we wanted to show them that building the city of Belgrade is in our best interest. Turns out it was for nothing. They haven't changed their mind. In each of our new projects, they were against, not because they have facts, not because they have arguments, not because they have a better proposal or a better idea, but because they have to always be against. I guess that's the policy they're running. That's the basic idea to lead to. This seems to be their primary and only weapon in a political struggle, except for that famous hatred of Alexander Vukic. I'm going back to this law. By amending this law, we'll get a lot. The municipalities will finally be able to decide some things, which by nature things should be decided by the municipalities. Something that was taken from them in the earlier period, some in 2007 or 2008, when it was deliberately carried out, I will say, the centralisation of government in the city of Belgrade, so that it will be as much in the hands of a man or a smaller group of people. In such conditions since 2012, here, we have achieved much greater results, much greater success than they, the yellow side, these yellow companies, could dream in their most beautiful dreams. I am not going to do this on this occasion, and I want to certainly in the course of the discussion, to specify what was done in the city of Belgrade, but only to politically illiterate people, blinded by people's hatred, is not clear what we have done. Why did that happen? You know, when you close down on social networks, engage in certain groups, when you block off all unthinkable people, you can't even get information that doesn't suit you. So they did, they blocked themselves, they locked themselves in certain groups, and they don't even know what's going on in Belgrade, they don't know what's going on in Serbia, they don't know what kind of success we've made and what progress we've made so far. I believe they don't even know we've opened the highway through Serbia, because in that closed group, that information doesn't come to them. They also had building abilities, hands to heart, not that they didn't. To our soul, it cost us dearly, and it will cost all future generations dearly. For example, just as we pay off the famous bridge over Ade with all of our access cars, who knows how much more time it's gonna take and who knows who's gonna have to pay off those things, but they built it. That they have the building skills show today. They built a magnificent tent, excuse me, a tent in the pioneer park, and they're proud of it. And if you do, you should. That facility, that tent in pioneer park, is just showing their building skills. Now, let the people judge, that object can be compared to something else. I will, in the course of the discussion, when I'm in a position to state all the successes or some of the successes in some of our city municipalities. Anyway, I fully support this bill. I fully support what the state allows the city of Belgrade, because the city of Belgrade will certainly have to adopt a new statute under this law. But what the state now allows the city of Belgrade -- to become finally the right capital, is making the capital in the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54784	Thank you, colleague Djokic. The word is Mirjana Dragaš. Here you go, colleague Dragash.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54785	Dear Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable MPs, we have today a very important law concerning the capital, its organisation of jurisdiction and its functioning. It is important, because it concerns nearly two million residents living in it, and it is the largest city in these areas, the largest city on the premises of the former Yugoslavia, but it is also the fourth largest in Southeast Europe, following Istanbul, Athens and Bucharest. Given its size, its complexity and location, it is a crossroads of roads, economic, cultural, educational centre of the country. For these reasons, his arrangement must be defined by a special law. Belgrade essentially has 17 cities, because there are 17 municipalities and 10 central ones in the city's narrow core and seven called so-called. suburban municipalities, where each of these municipalities essentially consists of one special city, one special urban area. Belgrade grows every year and comes here for education, job-seeking, escape from misery and war. Since 2000, about 400,000 new residents have come to Belgrade for statistics. Therefore, it is no wonder that there are traffic problems, employment problems, housing, ad hoc construction, municipal, security problems, etc., which must be solved and therefore not enough to apply only the Law on Local Self-Government. For these reasons, a special law on the capital is adopted. The current solution that is offered is finally going to meet the demands of the citizens of the seven so-called citizens. suburban municipalities, in order for citizens to resolve their needs faster and simpler, the MP, our colleague Misa Petronijevic, spoke of this in our parliamentary group before me. I'm not doing it anymore. On the other hand, however, there remain another 10 central so-called the municipality of the city's narrow core, the part of the city that has to work and function uniquely and therefore many competences for them remain at the level of the capital as a whole. This applies, for example, to building a building permit, urban plans, municipal services, roads, traffic, public transport, fire protection, protection from disasters in general for a sustainable lifestyle, maintenance and construction of green areas, security, etc. to keep everything that makes one such big city safe and well-functioning and organized. The special city of Belgrade has some special competences. I'm going to point out at this point the measures he's taking regarding the most intelligent policy, which can be the reputation and example of other cities, because it's one of their primary goals anyway. But Belgrade now proposed new law has a total of 23 competencies, which are new, as well as better specified. Belgrade is divided into so-called two control zones, which is good and our party has been pushing for such a solution since before, and of course, we are now finally welcoming this. But one thing must be taken care of. It must always be in line with the needs of the citizens and the people who live there. However, among these 10 city municipalities, not all of them are the same. I would like to highlight the position of municipalities such as Palilula, Voždovac or Zemun, which have a large and well-occupied periphery, which can often be municipalities for themselves and are all subordinated in all major issues to the decisions of the Belgrade city's authorities. Their functioning is not the same as the central municipalities, such as An old town, a Vashcar or a Sava Wreath. I therefore believe that these municipalities may have been given some of the prerogatives that are not applied to them, which have been given to these other seven municipalities, as this would ensure a more efficient and faster functioning of a large number of inhabitants in a fairly large and dissociated area. In any case, it is not the same to organize life in Zemun, Palilula or the Leader, such as that. In these three central municipalities. After the adoption of this law, the city must adopt its new statute, which will organise its own power-building and which will pass on new powers to seven suburban municipalities. But I also want to point out the need for attention and investment to be evenly directed to improve the living conditions of each municipality. Of course, I will commend the large investments that are now made in relation to the city center. We see this by restoring facades, building new residential buildings, hotels, parks, fountains, squares, pedestrian zones etc. It is phenomenally changing the face of Belgrade and in front of citizens, especially in the eyes of foreigners who are getting more and more, and that is very good. It also expands, as well, New Belgrade as a new and modern business and housing centre. And that's also good. A modern urban continent is being circled. The city is changing rapidly. We can see that every day. I would also like to stress that there are no significant investments in some parts of Belgrade that should pay a little more attention in the coming period. At this point, I will mention only the city of Zemun, which, in the opinion of the citizens, would have to get more attention and change its infrastructure, its appearance and ensure greater attractiveness. Why? It is a municipality of its special and long history, which was as an independent city until 1934, when it first joined Belgrade. He was then independent while NDH was, unfortunately, to become a city municipality again in 1954. But this special appearance, as well as opportunities, needs to be improved more to make it much better, more attractive and touristic and traffic and cultural and educational. Unfortunately, with its own forces, Zemun has no opportunity to achieve this unless he has significant support for the city of Belgrade. I'll say it used to be a big industrial giant. He had his large companies "dragon", "Ikar" next to Grmeč, "Teleoptik", "Geomashina", which all disappeared in the whirlwind of the 5 October transition, and the new ones are few. There's an unfinished sewerage network. There's a lack of traffic towards some settlements. No connection completed for the freeway. The central home of health is in poor condition for such a large city, etc. There are not enough places in kindergartens, and there is little investment in high school, there are seven in Zemun, as well as higher education, despite the fact that this city has seven to eight prominent scientific institutes at the top of home and world science and two universities. Except for the Madlenian woman, in this town, unfortunately, there are no cultural institutions. There used to be nine cinemas, a scene of the National Theatre, the Puppet Theatre. All of this was extinguished by the brutal wave of transition, which brought to those places malls, self-services, cafes and casinos. Seventeen years in Zemun has closed down the Foreign Museum, and "Pinky" as a sports centre does not fully meet the needs of citizens. These are examples of how much a great city center, with its rich history, can do with everything that the Danube like its river gives it and with its history, with its special architecture, place, size and significance, to be better. But it needs a single policy in downtown Belgrade and in the city authorities to come true. What I'm still trying to say is, in short, the overall attraction of the brightness of the big city and the beauty of the developing Belgrade must not outshine and empty Serbia, so we need more corridors, modern traffic, investors in many cities, which is why this government is doing more dynamicly than any one in Serbia so far. Belgrade needs a bypass, but other cities need an entrance, i.e. roads to which it would come, live and work. When we're done, I think only then can we say that we did it. In any case, this government and this Assembly and its MPs, joining these solutions that have been made, with everything else that development plans are, thinks we're on the right track. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54786	Thank you, Mrs. Dragash. The word has Professor Miladin Ševarlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54787	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, I'm going to look back on one problem that I started with today's presentation on the expansion of the agenda of this session and earlier sessions. I think we should stop genetically modifying the Serbian language in the Serbian state. Let's start with the domain of the National Assembly. We are the only National Assembly in the region that has the name "parliament.rs". Should I refer to you as Deputy Speaker, then, if this is Parliament? In addition, the explanation that I received that parliament is due to visibility is not true at all. This is not what parliament is written in English, because there is one letter "and" more. Look at the names of the domains of all around the Assembly, Assembly, National Assembly, etc. It was just an introduction, and now look at the proposal to amend and supplement the Capital Act and look at the title of Chapter VII, instead of the Citizens' Protector, you are now proposing to be called the local Ombudsman. Is the Ombudsman a Serbian word, Mr. Minister? (Alexander Martinovic: The minister is not a Serbian word either, nor is the professor a Serbian word, nor is the doctor a Serbian word. )
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54788	Go on, Professor. It'll obviously be a good discussion on this subject. Keep going.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54789	I don't think I've ever spoken to any of the MPs before, but that's probably the manner in which some of the earlier convocations were passed on to this one. That is why I propose that the minister adopt this proposal and that the title of Head VII remain the Protector of Citizens. If that doesn't change, I won't vote for the amendment and supplement of the Capital Act. It probably doesn't mean anything to you, but it's a matter of principle and I think we should all be national, responsible for treating it. In addition, Republika Srpska President Vukic recently said, if I am not mistaken at this "Future of Serbia" rally, that he supports the idea of a single Serbian-language Bucharest. You cannot, on the one hand, support the idea of a unique Serbian language bouquet for all Serbian children, not only in Serbian countries, but in the whole world, and on the other hand, perform a practical genetic modification of the Serbian language. Another thing I wanted to encourage you to think. The strengthening of the municipal police in Belgrade is very discussionable. The communal police are down to a repressive organ, not a preventive one. I'd like to ask you a question, both for you and for the mayor of Belgrade, do you know that 80% of the shahti in Belgrade is a blast hole where wheels, tires and feline are destroyed around the city? I have not heard that Belgrade's municipal police have ever written a report against responsible persons in "Belgrade Road". Also, we should consider whether Belgrade should continue to be, because of its superiority in terms of the development and services it provides to citizens of Belgrade, under the name of a demographic black hole for Serbia, because practically what does not go abroad remains in Belgrade, from younger ones. What do we need to do, especially you ministers, as Minister of Local Self-Government, that other outside Belgrade regions have more progressive development than before to keep residents in these areas? Otherwise, what a fellow from Switzerland said to me will happen to those who are on the mountain, because we are aware that once they come down from the mountain, no one will return there. I ask you, Mr. Minister, what are you doing for a more even regional development of the Republic of Serbia? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54790	Thank you, Professor. The word has Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54791	I thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. I need to intervene. It's a reference to Alexander Wolfiche. [[Miladin Chevarlic: Excuse me, why the replica?]]
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54792	You mentioned Alexander Vukic, the president of the SNS and therefore Mr Martinovic has a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54793	On that basis, I answered my word. The previous speaker may have tried to be funny and to disqualify in a funny way the solutions contained in the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Capital Act. Personally, I don't think that funny thing went well with him. Namely, he asks the question – why is the term local Ombudsman used? The Nautilus is a Swedish word and originally means trustee, commissioner. That's what the institution is called in Sweden. The previous speaker then asked the question – why is this term used when it is not a Serbian word? He also mentioned the position of the president of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic on a single Serbian Bucharest to be applied in schools in the Republic of Serbia, Republika Srpska and Montenegro. However, the previous speaker is prof. dr., and that's what he writes on the screen when he answers the word. Neither professor nor doctor is a Serbian word. He used to teach at the university. The university, too, is not a Serbian word. It says – when driving a car in the streets of Belgrade, bend the feline. Not even a felt, Mr. Professor, is a Serbian word. I don't know what you're using. It says – Serbia has become a demographic black hole. Neither is demographics, Professor, a Serbian word. You must find an adequate expression then, if you think the Ombudsman has no place in the law on amendments and additions to the Capital Act. You spoke to Mr. Ruzic several times from the minister. The minister is not a Serbian word either. The minister is a Latin word. Perhaps you'd like what the Croats did. For every phenomenon and for every concept, some allegedly have their own expression, but see what this official, standardised Croatian language looks like now. Croatians who were born in Zagreb, I think, half of their terms do not understand, but jokes have started to talk about the subject for many years. I want to tell you that you have found no fundamental objection to the solutions contained in the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Capital Act, and the next time you criticize the language used in the law, then try to be consistent, so that for all those words that you think have no place in the law, you find adequate Serbian replacements. I'm telling you, it's not gonna work out for you, because there's not one language in Europe, it's German, Romance or any other, in which you don't have words borrowed from another language.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54794	Thank you. The word has Miladin Ševarlic, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54795	Thank you very much. Here, let me fill it in. Article 138. The 2006 Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The change in the name of Chapter VII in this Amendment and the addition of the Capital Act is contrary to Article 138. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, point 5. Protector of the citizens. Please, can you work against the Constitution before changing and supplementing the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia? Thank you for your attention, Mr. President of the Parliament Group.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54796	Thank you. The right to replica has Dr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54797	Mr. Sevarlic has now mentioned one constitutional category. So it's about the Citizens' Protector as a state body, as the authority of the Republic of Serbia. We're talking about Ombusman at the Belgrade city level. What you should know, Mr. Chevarlic, the authorities of Belgrade, as well as all other authorities of any other local self-government unit, are not state authorities. So the mayor of Belgrade is not a state body. The Belgrade City Assembly is not a state body. No city secretary is a state body. These are the authorities of the local self-government unit. Official name of the institution in the Republic of Serbia that protects human rights and freedoms from so-called Bad administrations or as the English would say "small administration" is called the Citizens' Protector, but it is the state body of the Republic of Serbia that you think of, and we are talking about Ombusman at the level of the Belgrade city. So you didn't call for a good member of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54798	Thank you, Dr. Martinovic. Professor Miladin Ševarlic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54799	Does this mean that the congregation of the municipalities and the congregations of the city that are contained in the Constitution can change, according to their own opinion, the change of the name of that organ into different, as it suits them? If I may, that means Belgrade is extraordinary compared to the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54800	Thank you, Professor. Dr. Martinovic, you explained as a professor of constitutional law everything, if you'd like to do it again.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54801	I'll try again, I don't know if I'll make it. The Obusman institution, i.e. the Protector of Citizens, was introduced into the legal system of the Republic of Serbia in 2007. That's when the Civil Protection Act was passed. After that, the institution Protector of citizens with different names was introduced to the AP Vojvodina level in a number of municipalities and cities in the Republic of Serbia. There is Minister Ruzic, who can confirm that, and institutions are called differently in different local self-governments. They're called citizens' protectors, sometimes called obsessants, etc. That's right, at the level of Europe, somewhere called Obusman's People's Lawyer, somewhere a people's attorney, somewhere a protector of the rights of citizens, but the essence is the same. Let's stop being funny now and deal with the essence. So, what you should know, and what the citizens of the Republic of Serbia should know, since this institution is mentioned in the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Capital Act, whatever the institution is called, Ombusman is someone or Protector of citizens is someone who needs to protect human rights and freedoms when these rights and freedoms are threatened by the wrong or illegal conduct of the Authority of the administration. It is good that this institution exists in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. When you look at the statistics of Professor Chevarlic, this institution exists under different names in over a hundred countries of the world. It is good that the institution exists in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The public defender when he does his job well, and I don't mean the former Citizens' Protector, Sasa Jankovic, who has politicised that function, but when the Citizens' Protector is doing his job, he is a corrective one, and a very good correction of poor management towards citizens. Is that how this shows you the latest example of Hotel "Bristol" when the current Citizens' Protector, Mr. Pasalic intervened and found some solution for the people who are residents of the hotel. So the Citizen's Protector has this role to play in some way and a mediator, to be a mediator between the administration, whether it's a state or a local and a citizen. That's why I think it's good that this institution is Ombusman or the Protector of Citizens, no matter what it's called, it's important that this institution exists, it's also detained in the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Capital Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54802	Thank you, Dr. Martinovic. Professor Shevarlic again, replica. I'll give you the replica, I think you've made everything clear about the legal side, and as far as these languages are concerned, let's call it the Shipka or Ivan Kline, and let's make one round table, because obviously you don't get along with it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54803	The rod is my friend, because my son married, or my sister-in-law, is from the family of the Shipka. So we can do it differently, but let's go back to Article 10. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. It's in Article 10. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is prescribed that Serbian and Cyrillic letters are official language and official letter? Is point 19. Declarations on the accession of the Republic of Serbia to the EU stipulate that the Serbian language and Cyrillic letter and official language are in the EU for the sake of the richness of culture? If that's what you want, then I suggest you change the list of agricultural category bulls, call them mufflons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54804	Thank you, Professor. The word is Muamer Zukorlic. He's not here. The word is Danica Bukvić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54805	Dear Chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, today we are considering amending and supplementing the Law on the capital. The specificities of the capital, which is a financial, cultural, traffic, administrative and university centre of Serbia, were spoken by my colleagues, and I would especially highlight the most important change this law adopts, which is decentralisation of the city. I am an MP from the suburban municipality of Lazarec who has been fighting for years for the changes provided for by this law, because suburban municipalities are all to themselves and cannot be treated as central city municipalities. The Lazarec municipality has been part of Belgrade since 1971, but is 55km away from Belgrade. It has an area of 384 km2 and lives in about 60,000 inhabitants. It certainly has its specialities and specifics. Unfortunately, in 2011, the statute of the city of Belgrade and the full centralisation of the city, Lazarevic lost a significant part of his competence, including his budget, and the lives of citizens were difficult because many administrative jobs as well as consent, permits and other services could only be obtained in the city of Belgrade. This law gives suburban municipalities much more authority than they have today, and that is certainly commendable. The possibility of them being able to establish public enterprises with the prior consent of the city's assembly is foreseen. This solution provides more efficient and quality urban planning, as the municipalities themselves will now implement a procedure for the development and adoption of these plans, and they certainly have more comprehensive insight into urban problems and the needs of citizens in their area. The suburban municipalities will now be able to issue construction permits, as we have heard of buildings up to five thousand square meters, but also to legalise objects up to three thousand square meters, which has not been the case so far, and which will certainly speed up the process of obtaining these permits. The municipalities provide for the establishment of service centres to enable more efficient provision of services to citizens who will thus come faster to the necessary documentation, which is the basic task and obligation of local self-government. The suburban municipalities will also have the right to establish or abolish local communities. I would particularly like to emphasise and commend the transfer of the founding rights and rights of management from the city to suburban municipalities, including Lazarec, which refers to public utility companies, and especially given that Lazarec, as well as other suburban municipalities, which had such municipal enterprises, have invested funds in them for decades. On the other hand, these utility companies will generate revenue, i.e. by selling their services and operations, thus providing funding for development, while also increasing the budget. In this way, conditions will be created for a more efficient and quality implementation of this activity. The higher responsibilities of suburban municipalities certainly mean an increase in municipal budgets, which is what we hope in Lazarjevac. Because of all the positive changes this law on the capital brings, in the voting day, the SPS parliamentary group will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54806	Thank you, colleague Bukvić. The word is Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54807	Thank you, Chairman. Respected ministers with associates, respected fellow MPs, Belgrade is a town with a seven thousand-year-old tradition that ranks in the oldest cities of Europe. Belgrade is ideal for opening regional representations, which is why Belgrade is the first in the region to hold conventions and conferences. But to run a city like this, you need knowledge, teamwork and what's important, and that's a vision of the development of the city. The city of Belgrade only after the shift of Dragan Gilas and the arrival of the SNS allowed the consolidation of public finances to return the accumulated debts, which were left to us, by predecessors who would return to power again, and on the other hand, to develop the city through investments. Success didn't come overnight. Much has to be done to convince potential investors that Belgrade is a desirable, modern and stable partner. To regain the trust lost with Dragan Gilas, head of the city, whose management meant only obtaining millions of personal benefits, does not care about the quality of their fellow citizens' lives. The Serbian Progressive Party knew that there was nothing left to do but work faster, stronger, better. That's why we used that slogan in the election. The citizens recognized and supported it because they saw knowledge and strength and the will that only the SNS could carry out. I'll just say a fraction of what's been done. For example, after 26 years, the Belgrade Science and Technology Park, the first National Science and Technology Park to attract domestic and foreign investors, a technological development company, opened up, has made it possible to develop an economy based on what is important, on knowledge. For decades, Belgrade has been filled with abandoned unused locations that represented the mockery of the city. Thanks to the "Belgrade on Water", Belgrade has arrived again on the map of the world. In addition to "Begrada na Voda", Belgrade finally won the Ikea goods house, a Swedish producer and representing the world brand. The Hilton Hotel chain has also arrived in Belgrade, with an investment of 70m euros, with a construction site that employs about 700 domestic workers at some point. Large residential and business complexes, such as "Vozd gate", "A Block", "Central Garden", "GTC", "Belgrade Skyline", state centres "Capitol Park", "Ada Mol", "Big Feshn", "Stop Shop" Lazarec, "Aviv Park" Rajiceva, "Big Feshn" on Vidikovec and numerous others. But we're meeting more and more with the destruction of the so-called. The opposition, the more it works, the more they tear it down. We want Belgrade to become a real world metropolis, and in order for it to be, it must be invested and built. They block construction sites and the reason is because success doesn't forgive us, because their time has passed forever. After 11 years, Belgrade won its factory in Obrenovac "Meita", which has production plants across Europe and Asia. In addition to Obrenovac, a production plant was launched in Lazarevec, a Turkish investor bought the Beko factory. I come from Mladenvec and many of my fellow citizens would say it's all nice, but why isn't it in Mladenov? It was a major industrial centre that was destroyed long before 2012, long before SNS. The groom has long been on the sidelines of the city. The city itself has 17 villages in its municipality, which had no elemental conditions for life. From 2015 to today, these are kilometers of asphalt, sidewalks, water and sewerage networks, renovated schools, reconstruction of the Gazel Bridge, and are now doing complete reconstructions of the home of health, first after 40 years, i.e. of formation, i.e. from construction. The money was provided by the government's Office for Investments worth millions and 200,000 euros. A completely reconstructed railway station, an open museum of a city that has been closed for ten years, and we are expected to work "Beovoz" to get close to the capital, because more than ten thousand Mladenovs work in Belgrade, etc. Only with the SNS coming to lead Belgrade do the Mladenovs feel part of the capital. I will list only some of the most important implemented projects in Belgrade, Pupinov Bridge, Bulevar Heroja from Koshar, Brankov Bridge, which has been in poor shape for years, the reconstruction of Roosevelt Street that has been completely reconstructed, Slavi Square and Belgrade Liberation. Here, in order to embellish the central square, it adorns a large music fountain with impressive lighting and we met immediately with destructive behavior, because several times in it it is lush, imagine, detergent. Under the password, so-called. The opposition and their few sympathisers, anything that's nice and representative, let's destroy it because the Wolf built it. In the last three years, a strategic plan has been adopted to develop a water supply and sewerage system in Belgrade's wider territory by 2025. The general objective adopted and laid down by the strategy is that every resident in the next ten years has a connection to the water and sewerage network. As part of the plan, four targets related to the new water and sewerage network for the replacement of existing ones have been defined, the construction of a water treatment plant one of which will be in Mladenovac in the settlement of Interlujje. Then, the water factory Makiš 2 is one of the capital investments of the city of Belgrade and a water treatment plant where the latest treatment technology is applied, and its capacity is two thousand liters of drinking water per second. The opening of this factory provided a safe supply of drinking water for the next 20 years. The Makish-Mladenovac waterworks have stopped building in the '80s and hope that anyone will continue the project. But since 2014, SNS has continued the project. The water line came to Ralja, and by 2021 we expect a merger with Mladenova as an end point of water, which allows stable water supply, as we have so far excavated arteric wells. Gilas marginalized suburban municipalities. It was extremely difficult for us to function and the condition we inherited in 2015, when the temporary authority came to power was close to collapse. It's been done a lot ever since. Is that enough? I can say it's not, because it's hard to catch up with years of work DS and work only in your own interest. The Serbian Progressive Party is now leading Belgrade, seeking decentralisation, that each part of Belgrade develops more rapidly with the granting of greater powers, aimed at submitting the initiative to amend the law. The change in the law will allow construction permits for suburban municipalities up to 5,000 square meters and legalisation up to 3,000 square metres at the level of suburban municipalities, which will significantly speed up the process. We have a major problem with unresolved ownership relations, which also slows down development. The problem is the jurisdiction between the municipality and the city over many questions that plague my fellow citizens. I hope this decentralisation will help solve this issue faster. I also hope it will contribute to the development of Mladenvec, primarily as one and the only Belgrade spa, tourism potential due to the proximity of the Kosmaj mountain as well. I sincerely hope also to open some new factory and create new jobs for the Mladenovs, of course bringing the necessary infrastructure for new investors through faster licensing, as we expect in the recent period. In this way, it is possible for every city municipality to have more initiative, greater powers and more directly affect the quality of life in its city, because who knows better the needs of their fellow citizens than those who live with them every day and breathe the same air. I am sure that these changes in the Capital Act will significantly speed up many processes that lead to the resolution of a number of problems that plague my fellow citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54808	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. The word is made by the People's MP Ljubinko Rakonjac. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54809	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Ministers with Associates, today I will talk about amendments and additions to the Capital Act in terms of environmental protection. I must say that the city of Belgrade and the management of the city of Belgrade, professional services, public enterprises, the Department for the Protection of the Environment are working very hard to improve and improve the state of the environment in the city of Belgrade. At the same time, I must say that this is not really easy or simple, for the reason that Belgrade is developing today at an incredible rate. Today you can see in New Belgrade, Chukarica and throughout the city thousands of cranes. So it develops and builds a lot, and all of this needs to be carried out in the environmental protection segment. Today, the city of Belgrade is carrying out the following activities in the field of environmental protection - air quality control in Belgrade, local network of measuring cells for systematic monitoring of air quality in Belgrade's territory, consisting of 36 places of measurement to monitor the concentration of sulfur dioxide, soot oxides, nitrogen oxides and other harmful substances, also monitoring concentrations of sulfur dioxide, nitrogen dioxide, carbon monoxide and 15 intersections in the territory of the city of Belgrade. Other activities are being done to improve air quality. In 2012, the city began to implement a boiler-extinguishing programme in facilities that use environmentally unfavourable reagents negatively affect the quality of air in the immediate environment. So far, 17 facilities, mostly schools, are connected to the district heating system. In 2016, the city implemented the purchase of low floor electric buses for the public transport system. These buses do not emit harmful substances or carbon dioxide that negatively affect global warming and climate change, thus significantly affecting the quality of air in Belgrade compared to conventional buses. Also, a project is being implemented to reduce the exhaust emissions of a public transport vehicle in Belgrade's territory by introducing an eco-driving system. 90 buses have been purchased for public urban transport that meet the ecological standards of Euro 5, as well as 12 minibuses for the transport of school children, numerous cycling routes have been built, pedestrian zones have been expanded in the following streets – Knez Mihailova, Ivan Bego, Toplic's Wrist and others, and the realisation of the Strategy for the hammocking of the city of Belgrade has started. The adoption and implementation of the Strategy for Foresting of the Belgrade area in 2011 is of great importance not only to increase the noise, but also to preserve existing forest resources, restore them and sustainable use, as well as to increase the overall quality of the environment and protect biodiversity. The noise provides for a reduction in air pollution, a reduction in noise levels, effective protection of water supply sources, protection of agricultural and forest land, a reduction of land erosion, improvement of climate and micro-climate conditions, protection of endangered habitats and others. Today, Belgrade has 14.6% of total forest territory, which is kind of satisfactory for one such big city. The city of Belgrade is also making significant efforts to protect and improve protected natural goods in Belgrade's territory. 44 natural goods are currently protected, while there are three more for protection. Also, Belgrade is making significant activities to protect water in Belgrade's territory, which are control of the quality of underground and surface waters in Belgrade's territory, quality control of public taps, as well as control of the quality of rivers and lakes. The city is implementing more projects in the area of water recovery and revitalisation, as well as control of the quality of land pollution in Belgrade's territory. The city is implementing more projects in the area of land recovery and remediation. The implementation of the Belgrade public-private partnership project is also being carried out to provide treatment and disposal services for municipal waste. And many more environmental activities are being done today on the territory of the city of Belgrade. I can really say it seems a lot to improve the state of the environment in the city of Belgrade. That's why we're voting for this bill in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54810	Thank you, pal Rakonjac. The word has the Soul Stojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54811	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Dear ministers with associates, dear fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, dear Belgraders, the most important amendment to the law on the capital is the decentralisation of Belgrade, i.e. the transfer of competencies from the Republic to the city, i.e. from the city to all 17 Belgrade municipalities. What is the main advantage of decentralisation? The main advantage of decentralisation is that we want to bring the institutions closer to the citizens, we want to bring the decision-making process closer to the citizens to whom these decisions apply. By decentralisation we will carry out some sort of acceleration of the implementation of all those procedures and procedures conducted locally. Political theory suggests that the application of decentralisation is done to adapt the local needs of citizens and that it is a significant factor in the democratisation of one state and one society, as well as its political and legal order. This was also discussed by Seymour Martin Lipset in his work "Political Man", which spoke of the relationship actually between decentralisation and the height of gross social product and democratisation itself in a single society. A prerequisite for successful decentralisation, an appropriate culture and awareness of the community of citizens of a particular territory. Decision makers are closer to the subject of decision-making and error detection is easier and faster, and the transparency of the decision-making process itself, the procedure, decision-making is much greater. After a year, I would say, of the successful work of the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government and leaders of the city of Belgrade, we are talking today about these amendments and additions to the Capital Act. It is about good solutions that will make life easier for all of Belgrade's citizens, but also for domestic and foreign investors who want to invest in the development of our capital. Only so can the city develop according to the size of the citizens, and not according to the size of the tycoon as it was, I would say, manore, while this city was ruled by others who were now not entitled to enter the National Assembly and to discuss a very important law, what changes and additions to the Capital Act were made. Only proper decentralisation can increase the efficiency of the city's administration and in a way that encourages the development and social improvement of all citizens of a capital such as Belgrade. By these changes and additions to this law, we will allow all Belgrade municipalities, together with 17, to implement what Minister Ruzic also spoke about, local and economic development, and we will have one direct communication with all those domestic and foreign investors who want to invest in opening business facilities, warehouses, plants, businesses, different ritel parks, industrial zones in our capital. Also, in the previous period, I, as a Belgrade citizen, witnessed various experiments, I would say, which were led in the capital. So everything was going towards an ever-increasing decentralisation, actually, I could best describe it as a kind of pyramid. The pyramid in Belgrade was headed by the previous mayor Dragan Gilas, all the government, all the power concentrated in his hands and hands of his saint. The former mayor grabbed everything for himself and his companies, leaving behind a 1.2 billion-euro debt to the city of Belgrade. I would like to remind you of that year 2008, 19 August 2008, at the Belgrade City Assembly, Dragan Gilas was elected by a close majority of the city's council members. He then promised to fight corruption and crime, and ended his mandate by having corruption and crime in his ranks. He also talked about the transparency of spending every dinar. We don't even know today how much the bridge on Ada cost, talked about progress, about the rapid development of the capital, and I just have a feeling that only private bills, private pockets are getting bigger and bigger, and that the capital wasn't developing at that pace and at that pace that it could develop. We also have a situation that at that time in 2008, when he was elected mayor of Belgrade, he said he would be open to all criticism by citizens. We are witnessing that he was not open to criticism, that his people beat the man in Sopot, in Ralja, also ignored the report by the late Verice Barac, the Anti-Corruption Council, who said that as much as 25% of the Republic of Serbia's budget went to commercials for two firms that were close to the then president of the Republic of Serbia, Boris Tadic, I mean Shaper and Gilas. He promised that members of his party, he was then, I will remind all Serbian citizens he was then vice president of the DS, cannot hide behind his own party. We had numerous affairs, a corruption affair at the DS summit in Belgrade, the Alexander Bjelic affair, which damaged the Belgrade city's sixm-euro budget, which my colleague Aleksandar Markovic spoke of more. We also had other corruption affairs, abuses of official positions, we had a "Let's Clean Serbia" campaign, where only the Ministry of Environmental Protection site at a time when Oliver Dulic was a minister costing citizens of Serbia, the country's taxpayers 500 000 euros. We have a number of abuses of our official position both now and the police and all those authorities that are struggling to combat corruption in our country are working day and night to shed light on these affairs. Recently, I read in the media that a judicial dispute was concluded and that Assistant Minister Oliver Dulic was prosecuted for abuse of his official position while headed by the Ministry of Environmental Protection. I can draw you a map here of the city of Belgrade, all 17 Belgrade municipalities and go from one municipality to another Belgrade municipality and point to all those misdeeds and all those failed projects of the former authorities headed by Dragan Gilas, and the city of Vozdovac, and the model Terrace in New Belgrade but also numerous public debts left to us, above all I mean public enterprises' debts and many things. Unfortunately, I don't have enough time to tax everything Dragan Gilas destroyed in the city of Belgrade. A simple manner, i.e. the character of the government at the time, that it came from the budget, from the register, who, however, wanted to, without any control. The late Verica Barac's 2011 report says that one quarter of the budget went to commercials, that there was no control over the spending of that budget money and that simply when she tried to speak to the mayor and vice president of the DS, she came across the fact that he said it had nothing to do with it. Well, here, let me be ironic and say, well, of course it doesn't matter when the money ends up in the private pockets of people close to the DS then. He left us debts, left Belgrade in his programme, which was presented by the then elected mayor of Belgrade, talking about building a city with municipal infrastructure. I'd take him to all those city halls, first of all, I mean suburban municipalities, but also city municipalities that don't even have an adequate water network today, a sewerage network. So he left total urban chaos in our city. He left the streets with no asphalt. I come from the township of Rakovic. We've got a village called Sunny Beach that hasn't had any asphalt in 15 years. So, Minister Ruzic, for 15 years, the village of Sunny Beach, which is only ten kilometers from downtown Belgrade, did not have an adequate route, people in the winter period were really tortured and harassed to meet their daily needs, the ambulance could not enter the village and indicate health care to citizens, people who were severely ill. So that's what Dragan Gilas left us, and that's what I want to remind you, he wasn't absolutely interested in what the real needs of the citizens of Belgrade, which are actually the services that the city's municipalities are to serve, his manner was that he had just cut down more than 400 platans during the reconstruction of King Alexander's Bulevar located here near the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. That's what I'll do every day in all my exhibitions and remind you of. Now I'd like to go back to the reasons why it's important to make changes to the capital law. In his opening statement, Minister Ruzic indeed noted what the main elements are, it is actually about harmonising with sectoral laws. It's about agreeing with the Law on Public Property, the Law on the Law on Law of Objects, the Law on Housing and Construction of Buildings, the Law on Employees in Local Self-Government Units. I would like to say that only when we adopt these amendments and supplement the Capital Act will we allow our capital, our city Belgrade to be really faster and better developed to the extent of all Belgraders, and not to the extent of the tycoon, what was the manner of the previous government and DS. With the old statutes of the city of Belgrade, the former city government absolutely centralized the city, which really brought Belgrade municipalities down to the level of local communities. Unfortunately, the municipalities of Mladenovac, Lazarevic, Vračar or Stari Grad have less authority than any other small municipality in Serbia. This has also made it difficult for the city to function and the city's municipalities to function, but it was the policy of the previous government in the city of Belgrade and we as SNS are against it and how we are fighting it. By that, I would say, we, as SNS, differ from the policy offered by Dragan Gilas and similar to him. Our policy is to decentralise the city, but not at the heart of the efficiency of the city, city administration and our municipal administrations. By amending the law, the city will be divided into two zones. We'll have seven suburban municipalities, 10 city municipalities. City and suburban municipalities will also have greater powers in terms of spatial plans, legalisation and issue of building permits. I would say that in the previous three years, some kind of list of illegally built objects and the Belgrade City's legalisation Secretariat has come up with data that currently there are 250,000 requirements for legislation, which occurred in the previous 30 years. So, the previous government, absolute legalization and law enforcement of the facilities didn't care, they didn't want to make it possible and make it easier for citizens to legalize their apartments, their business facilities, their houses, their garages. They were interested in something else. We had a chance to see what it was all about. One of the important amendments to the law I want to point out, that we will allow suburban municipalities with the city's consent to have their own public enterprises, and that the city can transfer its sources of competence to suburban municipalities, which has not been the case so far. It's actually this fundamental decentralisation that we as SNS are seeking. We want to transfer responsibilities from the Republic to the city, but also from the city, the change of the statutes and the city of Belgrade and to the Belgrade municipalities. We've been doing something so far. In his opening presentation, Mr Ruzic spoke about a service centre located in Kaludjerica, the municipality of Grožić, but I will remind you of the ministers, we opened offices for quick answers to the economy during the previous period, making it absolutely easier to communicate between businesses, domestic and foreign businesses in the city of Belgrade, Belgrade municipalities and services providing our municipalities. Also, I'd like to say that the city has taken over a number of other powers. It will receive these changes to agricultural inspection, will be given the authority in the field of education, in the field of sport, in the area of authority in respect of abortions and water facilities. Indeed, some kind of essential decentralisation will be carried out only when all municipalities, especially suburban municipalities, are headed towards service centers. What I'm also trying to say is, now it's being planned and I'm someone who comes from the township of Rakovica and I can tell you that it's never been so built on the territory of my municipality as it's been built in the past four years. I just want to remind you of a few capital projects that the SNS together with its coalition partners have achieved in the township of Rakovica. After 40 years, we got the House of Health on Swan Hill. It's a modern, functional primary healthcare facility. A police station in Resnik has been opened, which brings us closer that citizens can now, not to reach the center of Rakovica municipality or another city municipality, but to be able to take out their personal documents in their place, their settlement. Also, video surveillance has been introduced in all cancer elementary schools and is linked to a police station on Vidikovec. A large number of roads have been paved, not categorized roads, we built a large number of modern parks, sports courts, outdoor gyms. We built a tourniquet in Resnik, modernised Belgrade's railway node and introduced new Beovoza lines, established a whole network of new bus lines, making Rakovica as one of the southern municipalities and better connected to the other parts of our great capital such as Belgrade. We're not gonna stop at that. As one responsible authority, we keep our promises made to the citizens and we also have plans for each local community to do what we will do by the end of this term at the level of the Republic, at the level of the Republic, at the level of the city and at the level of all Belgrade municipalities. We will continue to build a sewage network in Ljubisa Jelenkovic, Jelazovačka and Uroševačka Street. We will reconstruct two primary schools in the territory of the Rakovica municipality. It is about the elementary school "Branko Ćopić" on Vidikovec and the elementary school "Vladimir Rolović" on the hill of Petlov. We will also reconstruct the "Petlic" kindergarten, which is also located in the village of Petlovo hill. We will continue to listen to what needs and youth are but also old people. We'll continue to invest in retirement clubs for our senior citizens, but we'll continue to do whatever the previous government hasn't done. Mr. Marinkovic, I'm sure you don't even know today exactly how much the bridge on Ada costs, so the truth is the next bridge on Adi isn't finished and we are now finishing that part of the deal together with the responsible government in Belgrade. We are completing the reconstruction of Bulevar Patriarch Pavle, which will really enable better traffic of Rakovica's connection with other parts of Belgrade. Finally, our goal as a SNS is that we want the city of Belgrade to develop evenly, that there are no more citizens of the first and second order. We are all citizens of the same priority, regardless of whether they come from Vrakar, Stari Grad, Savavac, Rakovice, Palilula, Lazarec, Obrenovac or Mladenovac. It's decentralisation. She'd say it's like a powerful drug. It is very important that we receive adequate therapy in time at the right time and at the right dose to focus the treatment on resolving the problems of Belgrade's citizens. In voting day, I call on all my fellow Members of the People to support the amendments and to supplement the Capital Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54812	Thank you, colleague Stojkovic. The word has Stefan Miladinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54813	Thank you, dear colleague Marinkovic. Dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues, MPs, dear citizens and fellow citizens, citizens and citizens of the city of Belgrade, before us, we heard that there are some comprehensive amendments to the Capital Act, which we can freely say, regulate different areas and competences and provide services and coordination of all services within the city and prescribe some new solutions that follow national policies, which are in line with some national strategies. The city of Belgrade is a special territorial unit in the local self-government system, and this status is prescribed by both the constitution and this capital law. Of course, it is based on all the specificities that the capital has, which is the size, number of inhabitants, economic, financial, traffic, cultural, educational centre, which Belgrade is when it comes to Serbia, and we can say freely the centre of the Balkan region, with all predisposition to become the centre of Southeast Europe. The complex system directly related to citizens reflects the daily life of a metropolis and the management of these systems requires both clear procedures and efficiency, the coordination of the jobs of all services in this system and the 24-availability of all citizens. These changes, which are one part of the alignment with other laws, concerning the jurisdiction of local self-government, will create the possibility that the city of Belgrade, which we have heard a lot about today, will transfer the number of tasks of jurisdiction to the city's municipalities, which is the most important amendment of this law. The changes predict that the town of Belgrade is transferring its original competences, and announces city authorities with the new Statute that they will transfer to the town's edges. This policy is in line with the European Charter of Local Self-Government of the Council of Europe, which in its preamble promotes the most immediate exercise of citizens' rights at local level and the existence of local authorities, which possess a high degree of autonomy. The Charter of Local Self-Government provides that public affairs will, above all, be done by those authorities closest to the citizens. When transferring responsibility to another government, it will take care of the scope and nature of the job, as well as the requirements of efficiency and economics. It is also in line with this Charter, the suburban municipalities, as we call them Colloquially in Belgrade, which is Mladenovac, Obrenovac, Lazarevic, Barajevo, Sopot, Surcin and Grocka, that will extend the powers and restore the legal opportunities that have been taken away at one point, thus correcting the injustice. These municipalities, which, according to their geographical, demographic, economic and economic specificities, deserve to decide on certain issues on their own, in accordance with the conditions and needs of citizens, first of all on communal, in terms of organisation and provision of municipal services, through the establishment of public enterprises, but also in other businesses, such as urban plans or legalisation jobs. In addition to these changes that my colleagues from my parliamentary group and other colleagues have talked about, I will mention in several sentences the changes that remained in the shadow of these changes, and I think they are equally important to the citizens of Belgrade. One of them is the establishment and arrangement of events of importance for Belgrade, which will in a unique way regulate and determine the maintenance of public events, cultural, sports, business and transparency of funding, but also affirm some new events. For us pet owners, it is important to say that these provisions provide for the arrangement and organisation of the business of keeping and protecting domestic and exotic animals, which will prescribe the conditions and restrictions of keeping animals, places and ways of performing pets, especially dogs and cats on public surfaces, which has not been the case so far. We also welcome the proposal for a provision concerning the implementation of the population policy measures, precisely in line with the National Strategy for Inciting Birth, where the city of Belgrade is proposed to, of course, implement measures and finance projects of population policy. Another measure and it has an environmental aspect, which my colleague Rakonjac has already talked about, is the regulation of conditions for the management of municipal waste, as well as its disposal in Belgrade territory and the adoption of a programme of measures to prevent plastic bag waste from being created, with a plan to implement. This is something we really support, because the participation of the city in the area of movement and the disposal of municipal waste will contribute, of course, and protect the environment, which is one of the priority policies and the Socialist Party of Serbia. I will take the opportunity today to symbolically mention something about all Serbian citizens, and to praise and support the initiative launched yesterday by the company "Borba" and "Bazar" magazine together and, in fact, the allocation of the street of our legend Velimir Bate Zivojinovic. Today it has been marked three years since this great actor, a man who has dedicated his life to culture and also the development of a society in Serbia. Born Vrakarac, a man who spent his entire life in Vračar, we believe he deserves to get a street in Vračar or at least be the first in a series of gestures that can be shown by citizens of Serbia and Belgrade, which will be delayed, which will show respect for everything Velimir Bata Zivojinovic represents, and in this sense we want to take the opportunity to support this initiative. As announced yesterday, the city authorities' reactions are positive, and we believe that as soon as possible the city of Belgrade, or Vracar municipality, will also receive Velimir Bate Zivojinovica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54814	Thank you, colleague Miladanovic. The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54815	Thank you, Chairman. I will really, very briefly, given what the MP said about the bard of Serbian acting, the great of our film, whose value practically exceeds the frameworks of not only Vračar, the city of Belgrade, Serbia, I think it is a planetary value and of course it is within the domain of both the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government. I am pleased that the initiative has been launched, and I am glad that city leaders, first of all, if I am not mistaken, Deputy Mayor Mr. Vesic, have supported this initiative and I hope that this will be on the Commission for the Name of the Streets in Belgrade as soon as possible, given that after that decision, the Ministry of State Administration gives its consent to new street names. I think it is important to mention his Koracic, who is also a very important part of his life, but also a very important part of the city of Belgrade, a suburban municipality. In any case, we will be pleased to give one marriage three years after Velimir Bata Zivojinovic died. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54816	Thank you, Minister Rose. Natasa Jovanovic, on what grounds?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54817	Based on Mrs Stefana Miladanovic's presentation and on what Minister Ruzic said. Since Koracic is the birthplace of Bata Zivojinovic, let me just say that we Mladenovs have filed around the legate of Bata Zivojinovic. Our wish was to raise the potential of Mladenvec with foreign tourists as well, because we know that one size was born in our area, in a village belonging to the town municipality of Mladenovac, just so that it knows the public and that you support us in the initiative that Bate Živojinović's legislation is in the town of Koracic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54818	Thank you, colleague. The word is Sonja Vlahović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54819	Thank you, Your Honor. Honorable ministers, citizens and citizens of Serbia, Belgrade is similar to many cities in the world, by size, but what makes Belgrade different are Belgrade's citizens, people living in it and staying, high schoolers from Pancheva, students from Gracanica, engineers from Banja Luka, doctors from the Kingdom, all minorities living in Serbia, refugees, expelled, refugees and displaced. It was designed by workers, students, natives, conquerors and defenders, students and pensioners. Our Belgrade, a city that was on the verge of collapse due to the irresponsible policy of the previous government. The current government has inherited enormous problems, large loans, destroyed factories, street workers. The city's public enterprises are in a huge down payment to social categories. The city government managed to raise the city of Belgrade to its feet with a policy of comprehensive reforms. She managed to stabilize finance, start major development projects. He equally takes care of all Belgraders, whether they live in central or suburban municipalities. Belgrade can now mate much larger and richer cities. A city that develops, a city of investment, construction sites. None of it was that our President Aleksandar Vukic had a vision of a different Serbia and a different Belgrade. A lot of energy, effort and work has been invested, and the goal is even greater – the development of Belgrade, new schools, hospitals, kindergartens, for Belgrade to come down to the Danube, such as the "Belgrade on Water" project came down to Sava. He's a city of the future. He'll get the first line of the subway, a lot of new traffic, bridges, tunnels. With this change and addition of the Capital Act, we are decentralising the city, increasing responsibility, competence for urban and suburban municipalities. We allow faster development of suburban municipalities and we bring down decision-making levels closer to the citizens. Today, we are correcting Belgrade with this law, but our wish is also for Serbia to be at least as developed as Belgrade. That is why I will vote in favour of better Serbia and better Belgrade in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54820	Thank you, colleague Vlahovic. The People's Messenger George Komlensky has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54821	Thank you, Chairman. Comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen, the distinguished ministers and associates, today we are discussing amendments and additions to the Capital Act that comes as a causal reaction to compliance with all those laws that have been amended over the past two years and have, in practice, made one principle of thinking, which is the decentralisation and even development of Serbia right now through these changes and additions, verifies and integrates into the Capital Act. The principle of equal development and decentralisation is shown not only by writing laws, giving various statements, but also by the fact of behaviour and attitude towards each part of Serbia's territory. We see that since 2012 there has indeed been a maximum effort to develop all the environments in Serbia as far as possible, to compensate for the lack of devastation that lasted until 2012, i.e. until 2016 in Serbia. So we have the opening of the highway, the opening of new factories, where it may have been far easier for many investors to locate in Belgrade, but it is obvious that the intention and enormous effort of the republican authorities to have the interest that in smaller areas, such as the municipalities in southern Serbia, in eastern Serbia, in western Serbia, in central Serbia, are opening their facilities, and thus we are practically allowing all Serbian citizens to feel what this decentralisation really is in practice. Today we are witnessing that intensive and work at Morava Airport are at Kraljeva, where there is a clear good co-operation between, let's say, civil and military structures, because that airport, after these works, will become a civil-military airport and simply, will bring a lot to the King himself. But let's go back to changing and supplementing the Capital Act. I will realise that indeed these changes and additions that have been proposed are a major step towards decentralisation of Belgrade, but also a small step towards decentralisation of the city's municipalities within the city of Belgrade. Why a small step towards decentralisation of city municipalities, primarily thinking of so-called suburban municipalities? That is because much of the space that needs to be filled with changes to Belgrade's Statute has been left. It is clear to me that this may be a simpler way to transfer certain powers to the city's municipalities, to share part of the responsibility between the city and the city's municipalities, but I was amendedly forced to respond to several members of this law, and I will speak more about it in particular, because I think that certain members of the law are so formulated that they have no reason to restrict the possibility of relying on the statute of a certain jurisdiction or passing on to city municipalities. I can understand the city administration's concerns when it comes to Old Town. We have one completely incompetent municipal government, which knows nothing but to cause problems and disabling all the good that's done in the city. But that can't be the reason that municipalities that make extraordinary efforts, take care of their environments for a long, long time, have created huge assets through their own public enterprises or utility companies, for that reason being put aside. Speaking of Obrenovac, Obrenovac has been denied large funds since 2007. Namely, when amendments to the Law on the Protection of the Environment, the compensation for the use of goods of general interest ceased to exist, the revenue that was changed in the compensation of sulphur emissions and other dusty matter was introduced, in order for the next step to be that the 100% income of Obrenovac, of those that remained from the work of the "Nikola Tesla A and B" in Obrenovac, was first divided between Obrenovac and the Republic in relation to 60% towards the Republic, and 40% towards the city, and then the Gilas administration remembered that they were the units of local self-government, not Obrenovac, and that they began to take over the city of Belgrade slowly and thus cut Obrenovac a lot of what belonged to him. I agree that the smoke from the "Nikola Tesla" Termo power plant is spreading to other neighbouring municipalities, but the ash that is by changing standards, not because it has been declared to be no longer waste or hazardous matter, has been found to be harmless waste, it is simply not true. It is just a confirmation that some of the standards that existed in the former SFRY are far more serious and quality and more favourable to citizens than those taken over from the EU today. But we're where we are. It is precisely because it does not depend on good co-operation between the city and the municipality how much funding will come into a particular environment, and these things should be defined in another way, not just a match on who has a better project that will realise and therefore ensure the possibility of withdrawing funds from the city of Belgrade. The fact that it's working well now and that the administration in Obrenovac is ready and able and always has prepared projects based on which they apply for those funds, it's simple right now. But we have to make sure something changes. And this, simply done in 2007, was completely unfair and it was not decentralisation, it was a complete centralised of governance. You know, it's not decentralisation when you shut down the income management practically in Obrenovac and move it to Chukarica. The decentralisation is when you move the income management to Obrenovac, so let the citizens of Belgrade who live on the city's narrow core, if necessary, if something needs to be rationalised, to Obrenovac or to Lazarec or Mladenvec. This will achieve one equality in all of this. We need to know that decentralisation costs money. We can't just because five or 10 jobs in Lazarevec, Obrenovac, Mladenovac, Surcin, Groczyna and more are costing and burdening the budget, to make it difficult for citizens of these environments to have access to those jobs they need and necessary. They need to be available. At this point in Obrenovac, as it happens... I'll use time and authority, if that's okay with you. (President: You can't now, colleague Komlenski.) Finish your sentence. I'll finish my sentence, and I'll continue to discuss it later, it's not a problem. I thank you for your understanding. But it can't be a reason to make it harder for citizens to come to something. I think the next step, apart from changing the statutes, for whose content I know and can be satisfactory, is that the city's municipalities are also classified according to their status as units of local self-government. That would be the right way to complete decentralisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54822	Thank you. The word is by the MP of the people, Prof. Dr. Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54823	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, today we have had enough to hear about amendments to the law on the capital, which we are talking about today when we talk about Belgrade at all, simply, about the city which is the centre, the metropolis not only of Serbia, but also of all the Western Balkan countries, but one of the most interesting cities and the EU itself, because according to the number of tourists visiting for so-called. Break centres, or for weekends most interesting in the EU, Belgrade is one of the most visited cities. That's what the number of tourists says. But what we are talking about in Belgrade today is that by urbanising, increasing the number of residents, increasing and implementing new projects from 2012 to today, Belgrade has completely changed its appearance compared to the time it was led by Gilas, who was mayor of Belgrade, who, I will remind you, has left a city of 1.2 billion dinars, which has left only 626 million loans with interest and 366 million maternity costs, pensioners and municipalities. Therefore, funding was to be settled, bills consolidated and then entered into many investments. The Republic helped with that a lot. Today we already have and see what the "Belgrade on Water" project looks like, as a bypass around Belgrade looks like. Infrastructureally, Belgrade has changed, but it was necessary, since many laws have been changed since 2007, when the special statute of the city of Belgrade was passed, to bring all new laws that have been passed and implemented, indeed, decentralisation that has been discussed so much by 2012, and no authority has been able to do so. First of all, when we talk about infrastructure in the municipalities themselves, Belgrade consists of 17 municipalities of the city, when we talk about the need for municipal networks to be entrusted to urban municipalities, it has always been a problem. When it came to the need to solve illegal construction, there were attempts, however, five times changed the Law on Planning and Construction until 2012, but they gave less and less authority and municipalities. What may have been good will in the Statute and political will in 2007 is that the possibility for municipalities to resolve these issues through transferred competences, but never happened. Now, for the first time through this legislative proposal, we have the possibility that urban municipalities will be able to issue building permits, i.e. to solve their own urban plans, uniquely with the city, that they will be able to grant permits for buildings from 400 to 1,500 square meters, that they will be able to establish public enterprises that are in the interest of developing the municipalities themselves, and especially when we talk about suburban municipalities and when we talk about certain manifestations of importance for certain municipalities being able to in a certain way, with the consent of the city, to promote, and also that certain measures are prescribed and financed by projects in order to encourage certain projects, such as one of the most important national projects, which is to increase birth and ultimately define certain projects that would give application of new standards of environmental protection. For all of this it is necessary, of course, to have money today, and what shows the budget for this year and the results and business of the city for 2018 is that the city has transferred, delayed the realization based on increased revenues for this year, over 40 billion dinars for the realisation of new projects. You can note that there is an increase in revenues in Belgrade's budget from last February to this February in 2019, and the reason is that there has been a decrease in employment, i.e. a real increase in the opening of new factories, the creation of new jobs, and the income by taxes alone is higher by 600 million dinars this year compared to the previous one, a better tax charge of 213 million and that we have an increase in the plan of revenue from an integrated tariff system for the payment of tickets in public transport than one billion dinars, namely that urban building land is higher by 100 million dinars. This shows that all the results show that there is money planned on the basis of revenues for this year, which is big projects to be done, as one big job, which is buying 200 new ones, means to restore the GSP and public transport fleet, thus increasing and raising the quality of services to Belgrade citizens. Based on projects that, by the way, not only the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Finance, have certain agreements that we ratify here, which relate to energy efficiency. It's a renovation of public buildings. So over five million euros are planned to raise energy efficiency, so the reconstruction of facades, when it comes to public buildings, which is actually reducing costs for electricity. In the end, the part that is very interesting, which is a greater separation for children's shelters in Belgrade. That's about five million dinars approved from the current budget reserve. Otherwise, the Municipality of Starar opens the first shelter for children and young people who are practically children without other people’s care and care. What's very important is that there is now a modern object that has taken the city into its wing and thus provided that the children who are tramps today no longer exist or if they have such a problem, there are institutions in which they can spend their time in winter. What is important to say, one of the most important projects is the constant increase in revenue, i.e. through the implementation of projects for the city of Belgrade is the improvement of infrastructure. As the city gets more inhabitants, so does urbanisation, we also have increased housing construction, so we have an increase in registered cars in the city of Belgrade. The city of Belgrade is constantly struggling with this problem of finding ways to increase parking and urban planning of the city of Belgrade, to be acceptable to the normal life of all citizens of Belgrade. This is what all modern metropolis face, but it is a responsibility in this kind of problem-solving programme, not only should the city of Belgrade do so on its own in co-operation with the relevant ministries, but the government of Serbia and the president of the state themselves make a full contribution to solving such new programmes, such as some modern capitals in the world. That is why you can often see that the delegations of the city of Belgrade are visiting all the world's metropolis and that their mayors are coming to Belgrade, and precisely because they see that there really is a responsible authority that wants to implement the latest solutions they make, not just EU countries, but the world, east and west, which is actually the result of having one responsible foreign and internal policy of the president of the state and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I think such a bill with amendments and additions to the regulation of the city of Belgrade in general and of all local self-government, when we have like today, should support all parliamentary groups. I am sorry that those who are part of the opposition in this parliament today have no response to better solutions to the functioning of the city of Belgrade, especially having experience, as former mayors, presidents of municipalities. This means they have no political capacity to come up with a specific plan and programme that would produce certain results, not only to Belgrade, but also to Serbia, because we know that the majority of citizens' income is generated right in Belgrade and that the largest initiators of major projects in Serbia are moving from Belgrade. We see that there is a political irresponsibility of those who are not here today, because they cannot give answers to certain questions, but they are the people that are critical of any kind of solution that gives the ruling coalition at its head, not only the prime minister, but also the president of the state, Mr Vucic, and that is why today we are talking about who is for the development of Belgrade, and who is in favour of returning to power and taking back from the budget and in charge of the citizens of Belgrade for the sake of their personal businesses and their personal property to increase tenfold. Therefore, in the day of voting, responsible people will support such a bill, and those MPs who do not want to discuss this will obviously remain at the edge of the past, their policies, which citizens, not only Belgrade, but also Serbia will not support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54824	Thank you, colleague Tomic. The word has a folk MP, Djordje Kosanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54825	Dear Ministers with Associates, Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us today a bill on the capital. At the very beginning, I will say that the JS parliamentary group, in the voting day, will support the bill's mention, because its adoption should contribute to greater decentralisation of Belgrade, that Belgrade is more coherent as a whole, that it is an equal development, and that citizens in the fastest, most efficient way solve their problems in the nearest possible place. Practically with Belgrade's Statute, which was passed back in 2011, Belgrade was, I say, completely centralised. So the municipalities, for example, Mladenovac, Lazarec, Obrenovac, had less authority than any smaller municipality in Serbia, which in any way made it difficult for these cities to function. All of this is in favour of making a new legal solution. We had the old law back in 2007, and practically the right to decentralisation with that old law was not even possible. And, practically, this legislative solution, ministers, is some sort of alignment with a whole series of resolution laws that have been passed in the meantime, but on the other hand, good co-operation between the city of Belgrade and the resolution ministries, all in order to improve the functioning of the city of Belgrade. So, what is this, what is this paper that the new law makes? First, Belgrade will be divided into two suburban and urban areas. Seven suburban municipalities will be in the suburban zone, and 10 urban municipalities in the city zone. One of the most important changes is that of these 10 city municipalities, they will in future legalize up to 400 square meters, and issue construction permits up to 1,500 square meters, while suburban municipalities will legalise up to 3,000 square meters and issue construction permits up to 5,000 square meters. Also, suburban municipalities will get the right to adopt urban plans outside the general regulation plan, of course with the city's consent, which will speed up the construction in these municipalities, but also attract investors, and that's what we from JS and our President Dragan Markovic are always talking about. It is good that local self-government has a personal initiative to bring investors, not only to wait for the government of the Republic of Serbia to bring investors. Minister, you know that well. Jagodina is a good example, not only by bringing investors, but by one successful local self-government, in all segments. This law allows suburban municipalities with the consent of the city to have public enterprises, and that the city can transfer its original powers to suburban municipalities. So, you take over a whole series of powers, I'll just say let, in education, in sports, you get a agricultural inspection. But what I want to say to the Ministers is one important fact, which goes in favour of the adoption of this legal solution, that thousands of different requirements are concentrated in one place in the administration in downtown Belgrade and now imagine the ministers, someone who is, say, in Lazarjevac, or in Obrenovac, or in Mladenovac, there is a few hours, and then comes in turn and tells him that he needs another document and he has to go back to his place, even imagine that he came by bus, how much time he needs. So one more day he's got to use it to get some work done. And it's an important segment that goes beyond this law. The decentralisation will be done practically when the suburban municipalities start to create service centers, so that most of the work that the construction needs to be done in the municipality can be done in the settlements that are part of that municipality, and these service centers, you said earlier that there is already one, that he is a good example, and I hope that the other municipalities will go that way. And no longer, let me just say that the JS parliamentary group will support the bill in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54826	Thank you, dear colleague Kosanic. The word is Ljiljana Malusic. Here you go, colleague Malusic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54827	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with co-workers from the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, today I will talk about the bill on amendments and additions to the Capital Act. Says my colleague, who was here for 14 and a half seconds, and otherwise doesn't come for months, receives a salary, that this law was not a public debate, so it doesn't have to be, these are additions to the law. It was open to the Ministry, all the sites, who wanted to make the supplement, that he could suggest. So it's pointless to talk about it. When we speak from the capital, we should point out that our beautiful and only city, which has been devastated so many times, is being bombed, which is still thanks to the good people, and since 2012 thanks to the good policy of our President Alexander Vukic. In fact, the city was completely centralised in the Statute of 2011. What does that mean? That all the authorities have the city of Belgrade. The city of Belgrade has 17 units of local self-government, which means 10 city and seven suburban. Those suburbans didn't have much of an ingenuity. Today we have these amendments and additions to the law to decentralised the city of Belgrade, namely to give greater authority to these municipalities located on the edge of the capital, or the city of Belgrade. What's this about? The point is that building permits for local self-government units amounted to up to 800 square meters. Building permits have been issued. Today we increase that and instead of 800 squares, it's going to be 1,500 squares. We're introducing a new category, which is legalization up to 400 square meters, which is extremely good, because we're going to unload a city that has probably over a million objects, maybe more. It's been waiting for years, now it's really waiting a lot less, but since we have 17 units of local self-government, it would take years and this is good. Then, suburban settlements will issue licenses for up to 5,000 square meters, and legalisation will be up to 3,000 square meters. Then, the new moment is the establishment of public enterprises, which is also good, because the investor will come into the middle. It is inevitable that every unit of local self-government has good investors, to hire its own people. That's how it's gonna develop. What else did we have? We are introducing as a new category of jurisdiction in the area of agriculture. Farmers will be introduced. Of course, it's tending to prevent wild dumps from being preserved by this beautiful country of ours. Also, the goal is that each suburban municipality has at least one investment, such as Obrenovac, which is called "Meita", employs 3,000 people and that's the point. What else is there to say? As far as community police are concerned, so far there has been one police officer on 5,000 inhabitants, which is really small. Now we're going to bring at least a thousand more cops in, and that's how we're going to solve the mass of communal problems. Another newspaper is an increase in fines, which is good, and I like it very much, because boasting drivers won't be able to park anywhere they want, in parks, in lawns, etc. but they will be punished well, and then they will think about how to behave in a great city. To go back a little bit to Mr. Gilas who ruled this city's sheriff, who centralized this city to fill his cash register, but I don't have enough time to talk about all his affairs, I'm going to talk about capital, for now. One of the biggest affairs is related to "Bus Plus". We all remember that 50 companies came forward, that there was no public procurement and that Mr. Gilas had all his money. The second affair concerns Belgrade's city administration. In 2008, she paid 68.7 million dinars to one of his four large companies, thus providing 85% of the revenues. You're a disgrace. Not only that, a 10m-euro software package was purchased by the former Belgrade government with Dragan Gilas headed in 2009. Of course that package has never been used. Also one of the biggest affairs was a financial affair, we all know that an untraceable billion and 200m euros have gone missing. He kept talking about it being 460m euros, it's not true, but it's a billion and 200. He didn't report the debts of public enterprises. Also, the Sava Bridge is worth 500m euros, which should cost 150m euros, as it is in France, much longer than 150m euros. I wonder where the 350m euros went? Then we're having an affair with Bulevar, so Požeska, so Luka Belgrade, etc. That's what they did. That's not how we do things. Now I'll tell you how we work. In a very short time, since 2010, when the Voždovac municipality came to power, and in 2012, when we came to the republican level, I will tell you only, I will tax you out, because I really still have a lot of colleagues who want to talk about this law, what we have done for this short period. First of all, it's about health care. We've completely found devastated health care. From 2014 to 2018, first of all, we created a new House of Health in the Lambs, over 50,000 patients, so the whole debauchery part now comes to this home of health, then three ambulances Kumodrag one, Kumodrag two, Kumodraz village, then to the infirmary in Ripnje. Also in the project is the construction of a health home in Banja Rica that will serve 30,000 patients. That's how it works. Then school. About schooling, probably all parents know what our schools looked like up to six, seven years ago, and now we've fenced schools first and started video surveillance. No more drug dealers in front of the school. Also, we built the “Vojvod Stepe” elementary school in Kumodraž village, 1000 students attend that school, the new kindergarten was never “Little Siren” 500 children attended the kindergarten. At Jajinca elementary school, a new gym for physical, surface 600 m2 was built that children finally have recreation, that they have physical. The elementary school "Vasa Čaapić" was created in Zuc, after 115 years of existence it also received the first sports hall. Also, protective fences were placed everywhere, so that the youngest would have basic conditions for staying in schools. The toilets were built in 13 elementary schools, kitchens, stairs, ceilings, floors, roofs, etc., tid, as well as schools, 70 km of water network was built in Ripenj, these most interesting ones. Only 10% of the people in Ripanj had the city's drinking water, now everyone in Ripanj has drinking water. Also, a small Utrina sewerage network has been built. Gentlemen, I've wasted my time. I'll proceed with the amendments. Thank you for your attention. The Serbian Progressive Party will be happy to pass the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54828	Thank you, colleague Malusic. The word is "Verica Radet." Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54829	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, most of today's debates on this bill resemble literary work, the school composition on why I love Belgrade. When a man hears what has been done in Belgrade, of course when MPs say that, then it seems to me that we can use the key in the lock and that nothing else should be done. It's all over. There's nothing left to do in Belgrade. But you know well, and you're all saying it's not even close to the truth. We understand that you are also praising, and the bill and the work of the government, etc. You are the congregation majority who support this government, but still need to be a little critical. Much is not good in Belgrade, much is not done, you know, I suppose you know, and especially people living in central Belgrade municipalities that we have parts of Belgrade, the metropolis, the capital that hasn't even built a sewage network yet. Let go of that makeup you're talking about. Of course, makeup should be done, Belgrade is the capital, but there are no basic conditions for normal functioning in parts of Belgrade. You're talking about suburban municipalities, although it's never clear to me how a suburban municipality can be a municipality belonging to the same city, but you're here predicting the formation of some public enterprise as it's formulated and in accordance with the Law on Local Self-Government. This looks like a unique public enterprise of these so-called so-called companies. suburban municipalities, and you must visit all of Belgrade to come from each other from these suburban municipalities. The air line is only a few miles away. You didn't do that either. You're actually only interested in the center, just a circle of two, just what you want to represent as that beautiful part of Belgrade. Of course that's what it's supposed to be. Of course, tourists should be attracted, etc., and that they should both be seen and arranged, but life in Belgrade is also life in Mladenov, and in Obrenovac, and Lazarovac, and Sopot, and Surcin, all of this is Belgrade for you. It's not Belgrade Vračar, Old Town, Sava Wreath. It's not. You're saying this law will decentralize. No, they won't. What decentralisation. With this law, you're just making a district out of Belgrade. You, Belgrade, and this narrow part of Belgrade, are also detached by the authority of all other local self-government. He says the constitution allows Belgrade to be given certain powers. The constitution of Belgrade treats other local self-governments as well. The truth in the last position of that member says that other powers can be determined by law. But there's something that's absolutely impossible. You can't, and you predicted here, say that Belgrade will work out its own spatial plan. He can't. It simply can't if you don't work at the level of the entire Republic, because it doesn't mean anything. You have predicted, and I see positively all of you are talking about this some special concern about the growth of birthright for Belgrade. But that's not good. It needs Belgrade, but should it be different, should Belgrade do this in a different way than the municipalities in Serbia that are moving out, which are empty, people come to live in Belgrade, even when you promise them this law then married couples or pregnant women will come two months before birth, will report that they live in Belgrade because the newborn child in Belgrade will get much more money than the one born in Vranje. That's not good, that's not good politics. What's decentralisation about it is that for the third time or what, you're returning legalisation to city halls? You tried that, it didn't work out. You did it at the city level, it didn't work out. You're going back to city halls again, and it won't work because it's not a problem where it's done, but it's a fundamental problem in law, is that now the Law of Law, you can't even catch yourself as it's called, is done so that 5% of the objects can't be legalized. You put it as a priority in this law for nothing, and you're still saying that's why this proposal is being discussed today by an emergency procedure. Of course, it has nothing to do with the truth and the reality. If, you say, you're going to decentralize these city halls, so how? They won't move beyond the level of the local office. Is he going to have a catastre? He won't. Will they have income administrations, except for those regional units? He won't. Will they have the police, except for that police station they've got again, and some bigger villages? He won't. Will they have a court? He won't. Will the hospital have to go to Belgrade? It will. Will he go to high school in Belgrade, I mean, central municipalities? It will. To college, downtown in Belgrade? Then what did you do with decentralisation? You're nothing. Only those local sheriffs, you will now spread your wings by this law, they have so far been abused by the presidents of the municipalities, and only now that they are forming a public enterprise, and then there will be who will be the director, who will be the boss, how many from the ruling parties, how many people will be employed, how many people will we put there for a certain time that will serve the capular votes in the coming campaign. That's the essence of this law, and that's exactly how it's supposed to be said. Why do you need a public housing company with building land? You have a directorate for Belgrade's property, a directorate who has people working there for 20, 30 years, they know the job. Did they, meanwhile, switch parties to stay at work because maybe they had to, that's irrelevant, but they know the job. This directorate has data on real estate, building land, buildings, everything. A lot of money has been made through that directorate for the city of Belgrade. And now you need a public firm. All you need is a party firm that doesn't need these professional people who know the job, but need people like you and most of the representatives of the municipality. You know, they're mostly, and not only in Belgrade, but I speak in all of Serbia, they're mostly uneducated people, but with formal some academic titles, then they're the worst. Now who's who, what's he interested in, some school principal, a teacher, a professor, a doctor, because he really went to school to get a degree. No, he's the boss of his nahya and he's acting like one. This is the only way to give them these alleged powers, which are essentially nothing, you're giving them the opportunity to further develop corruption, and the corruption at the place is terrible, and you all know it well. You know, what sometimes gets arrested by the president of the municipality of Alibunar, then Grock, so Pozega, etc., it's, you know, when someone needs to be toughened up or a little bit raised, then they get away with it and it's completely irrelevant. When it started, the first one was Alibunar, it was free to go in alphabetical order. You have the same condition everywhere, the same condition everywhere. Nor were local self-government set up to serve as citizens. You are, first of all, the Law on Local Self-Government, which we have seriously criticised, so now and then, we have completely ruled out here both from Belgrade and the local self-government opposition. The opposition may have 49% of the council, compared to 51%, the opposition does not know what is done in the municipality. Why? Because you've come up with a very high sense that the head of the administration is reporting to his party friend from the municipal council, not the municipality of the municipality. Well, that's what you don't get from what's here at the republican level, and you don't let us discuss the final budget bill. That's pretty much the way it is. We do not criticise for criticism, we speak to you specifically and you will see through our amendments what needs to be done to make this law look like something. We will never, as we have heard today, say, the story of the Gilas Bridge. Gilas's bridge, conditioned Gilasov, needs Belgrade and needed it. There were stories of whether it should be in that place, how much money he stole, etc. That's for discussion. What's the place? Whatever. Belgrade needs so many bridges, you can put a bridge anywhere, and it's okay. If Gilas stole the money, that's for discussion, but we're also discussing the Moravia Corridor. Gilas, they say, stole 380m euros on the bridge, and Zorana Mihajlovic with Scott 300m euros on the Moravia Corridor because she gave the job to Bechtel, not a China company that did it for so much less. We are not like these denominations of MPs to tell you that Belgrade doesn't need "Belgrade on Water", that it doesn't need gondola, that it doesn't need pedestrian zones, etc., all this needs Belgrade. And if the tenders are well done, etc., it may be the subject of the debate, it may be the subject of some other bodies. But in addition to what we need in Belgrade and what we absolutely support, we think that other urban municipalities should be developed in the same way. This law won't even bring the city councils closer. Of course, not every city municipality can have a Duke of Michael Street, but every city municipality must have basic conditions for life. You know, half of these town halls look like a little richer village, physically doesn't remind the city. Then you say, "Now we're passing the law, and then it'll be all honey and milk." He won't. So, first of all, this law is not good because we're not good with the Law on Local Self-Government. You're here to say that the public vote will choose the advice of local communities. Well, it's the biggest litter of corruption and money laundering. You'll make the public choices. Imagine calling the president of the municipality who is a socialist citizen to the citizens' assembly. Well, that's where only Socialist activists will come in, there's no way other party activists will come in, for example. He will be there with his activists to elect his president of the local community council and then he will give him money from the municipality and then the municipality is clean, and he is funding a local campaign, financing party activists, etc. And that's what's happening. I'm just finishing up with one example. Recently, in one place in Kursumlia, the president of the local community council was elected in some home of culture, and the door was open, it was a beautiful day, and now they say -- here, there are 20 of them. Three men go through some other business, they don't think to stop by, and this one says, hey, and that one and that one, write them, too, and they're here now, and they're in. So, I don't caricate, this is true, the law isn't good for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54830	Thank you, colleague Radeta. The word is "Andrian Avramov." Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54831	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, is today ahead of us with the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Capital Act, which was passed since 2007. That is why today, in this bill, we can note the consistency of the proposal on other legal acts, which represents one seriousness in the work and implementation of the law-making plan. So far, the capital that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia recognises as such has not differed significantly from other units of local self-government. By passing amendments and supplementing the Belgrade capital law, the capital will extend its general competence to other units of local self-government and cities. This law will provide faster, more efficient and constructive solutions to the Belgrade city's affairs. It is significant to point out that the city of Belgrade is the main economic, economic and cultural centre for the development of the Republic of Serbia and the system in general. The advantage of the above-mentioned law on amendments and additions to the Capital Act is that more precise offices are related between the city and other city municipalities in certain areas, by creating the possibility of faster and more efficient co-operation, co-ordination between the city, city municipalities, service and citizens of Belgrade. Among other things, these changes and additions to the Capital Act will be more precisely defined by the following activities: resolving municipal network issues in the territory of the city of Belgrade, setting up public enterprises by city municipalities in the territory of the city of Belgrade, performing construction, reconstruction and maintenance of road infrastructure, activities in regulating staff policies of children's protection institutions, the measures of incentives for birth and child birth will be defined. All of this represents the seriousness of work and care for residents of Belgrade's city of Belgrade with its leadership. We are witnessing that more infrastructure projects have been done and reconstructed in the territory of the city since the SNS in power compared to the last 30 years. The square of the Republic is currently being reconstructed with a pedestrian zone, designed according to the model of world squares and pedestrian zones. Several hundred facades have been reconstructed, Kosančić and Obilić's wreath, which are now an oasis of peace and greenery in the urban city zone. The reconstruction of the Sava Square, the street of Prince Miloš, is planned. I would especially highlight the Pupin Bridge capital project, which connects Zemun and Borch. This is of great importance to all residents of the city of Belgrade, but also to all those who come to our city. I would also mention "Belgrade on Water", an architectural building that represents a symbol of Belgrade's modernisation. The project was realised thanks to efforts by the leaders of the city of Belgrade and our President, Aleksandr Vukic. Since I, as a national MP, come from the Sava Venac municipality, I would like to highlight the dedicated work and efforts of the municipal leadership, headed by the president of the municipality of Iren Vujovic, who recognise the needs of the citizens of the Sava Venac municipality, but also of all citizens of Belgrade. So the library opened in the village of Senjak, a number of schools were reconstructed that have modernly equipped cabinets of professional classes, but also physical halls, a number of parks, playgrounds and others were renovated. I would mention the house of King Peter, which was built in 1896 and represents an inevitable point on Belgrade's cultural map and great interest in both domestic and foreign tourists. With our continuous and persistent work, we have shown that the SNS, headed by our President, is working and accomplishing visible results in every field of our society, in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54832	Thank you, colleague Avramov. The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic. Here you go, colleague Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54833	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's a proposal from the Resolute Ministry. The proposal consists of the main city consisting of several municipalities being decentralised in a way according to the ministry's proposal and opinion. The decentralisation should be progressing in the functioning of the city's municipalities. We're known to have different types of decentralisation. One is formal decentralisation when only administratively transfer some responsibilities and responsibilities to the municipality, and the other is essential decentralisation. Essential decentralisation implies not only administratively, but that income sources are decentralised, which is the main factor for functioning, one of the main factors for the functioning of municipalities. We here have a proposal to transform the Property Directorate into a public enterprise city building land at the level of the city of Belgrade. Minister, on the basis of this proposal, if adopted, you must amend the Law on Local Self-Government. The law on local self-government and the functioning of public enterprises has clearly abolished public enterprises of city building land in some areas, such as the town of Novi Sad, such as the city of Nis and others. Two arches cannot be applied in this Serbia. It is, above all, a fundamental difference when it comes to JP "City Building Land" which will operate in the city of Belgrade and the Building Land Administration or the Business Office, which function in other cities, must be treated at the same level as all cities. Of course, Belgrade has always had, and should have, status in a way, it can be said, the district, because Belgrade itself by its size and by everything that is the main administrative, economic, cultural centre, that is, the city of Serbia deserves such treatment. It's like that everywhere in the world. This is nothing new. But the fundamental decentralisation is, for example, working in the city of Athens, where you have municipalities of the city, where municipalities make original incomes, and the city is there to keep what is of capital importance under control. It is, when it comes to infrastructure, it is heating, it is water supply, specifically in Athens it is a port such as the city of Belgrade, except it has it on the Danube, and parking service. These are now, conditionally speaking, key functions that the city has under control. And there's always a city there, in a way, a majority part of the action, when it comes to the city of Athens. The municipalities have independence, when it comes to the revenues they make. Here is the basic idea of returning to the level of municipalities legalization of wild construction. What's the point? The point is to finally put an end to this process that does more harm than good. It cannot be applied by bringing amendments and amendments to the law where the job will be done by Belgrade, and after a year or a year or a half, or two, it is irrelevant to return it to the municipality. No, the concept of solving this problem is wrong. You estimate, when I say you, the current government, whatever the composition is at the level of the city of Belgrade, that it is a gold mine and that there should be as much resources to get out as possible. Whoever built a house in the suburban area doesn't have any big money. He who made the house did not do it to serve as a temporary object, and he did it to serve him and his descendants. The logic of the SRS is the following – if the value of the facility is estimated to be a certain price, then that price is divided into 100 years, and divided into months, and then the monthly war is said to be so much, you will pay when you pay the information and each advance knows how much the monthly war will amount to. And not the government has a completely reverse logic, a government that wants to solve this problem, they find, I don't speak specifically for you ministers, but I am talking about your colleague Zorana Mihajlovic, who is dragging us here from model to model. But with her head, as was Velya Ilic's, take the money, so why do we care? Yeah, you'll take it if they have money. Those who built on the periphery of the city of Belgrade, and there is the most represented wild construction, do not have as much money as they could get rich. That's one thing. Secondly, when given something, passed on to management, available, then it must be kept in mind that this something will allow a certain portion of the original income. You have here centralised, when it comes to transport, when it comes to markets, or markets, when it comes to funeral companies. You've been centralizing all this at the level of Belgrade City. You can't, so how much did you convince us that this BusPlus system was wrong, that it was missed, so why don't you stop it, gentlemen? Why don't you shut it down? You will not end it, not you, but these at the city level because it brings not so little income to the city of Belgrade. It is not essential that the city of Belgrade is rich and its inhabitants are poor. The point is that residents, citizens living in Belgrade's territory, are equally satisfied whether they live in Knez Mihajlov or live in Lazarjevac or Obrenovac. That's the point. How do you do that? Well, it just shuts down the monopoly. Belgrade took the first step in transport, allowing it to be a private initiative. The city should only make clear the rules under which this service will take place, i.e. to carry out that urban transport. The one who doesn't follow those rules can't deal with that job. When it comes to maintaining cleanliness, a public utility that deals with the taking out of garbage and taking care of dumps, so the logic of things itself says, it is economically invaluable when it comes to taking out garbage. These are huge expenditures the city of Belgrade has. Well, I can take part in privatizing it, and dumps can be under the majority of the Belgrade city control package. It's like that everywhere. Whoever unlocks and locks the dump controls the whole process. Who's going to do it? Well, interested people who see their interests, and you here have social categories of housing that you employ specifically this kind of public enterprise, and there are no small problems. First of all, inadequate wages, the city can't provide that. Secondly, they're not at any level because they have a monopoly. This monopoly enables them to behave so easily. That's the part where you need to think. When it comes to markets and drinks, charge a cab for the markets, so give some of those municipalities to do it, to invest. Let that be at least part of the original income. Why? Because in this proposal, too, you provide for transfer funds that the city will forward to the municipalities of which it confers certain powers. Especially here, public enterprises, and then the city will transfer certain funds. Don't play with it, so this isn't the old one that's recognizable. They don't need to be given fish to eat every time, but they need to be taught how to catch, to fish that fish. They should be given something to develop that environment, especially that suburban part of the municipalities, where you've now divided into seven of those municipalities. You know, if a man has no meaning and essence, life and stay in the suburban community, by nature things he'll come to the center. The center will manage. If he sees that he can sort out the existence in some way, he will not choose which business he will deal with, or even those who are on the other side of the law, or in the field of the gray economy. That'll cause multiple problems. For example, if he has developed infrastructure in the suburban municipality, developed and rich cultural and fun life, he can ensure that his child has the same benefits as the one who lives, or approximately, the one who lives in downtown Belgrade, will not be interested in living in downtown Belgrade, but will enjoy the same privileges or benefits as the one that is in the centre or near the centre. It's an awkward division into the center and the ones that aren't in the center, because that's relative, what's the center and what's not. What did you do here? You're here in fact, as you would say, slaughtering the ox for a steak. You came across a problem here to challenge the cable car you were planning to build, which will be from New Belgrade to the Fortress, and then you said it was best not to rely on a rather resourceful mayor, best to fit it into the law, that the City of Belgrade should decide on all modes of transport. Gentlemen, you must take care of the consequences. There's no normal man, that's what we've been telling you, which is against transporting people in this way, as you imagined with the wire. What they're saying, they're stories. Every investment, every innovation has its opponents. You're in power, you're responsible for it, and what you're doing is somehow helping relieve city transport. And you just can't handle it. When it comes to planning, you have found a Solomonic solution to make the one from Old Town or the one from New Belgrade to create a problem, you have all included that it is centralized at the level of the city of Belgrade. It is right that those who say the government has changed since the 1990s, so the laws on local self-government, or the Law on the City of Belgrade, have changed. As politically appropriate to you, that is how you adjust the law, or amendments, and additions to the law. It's not a solution. It's all variable. After all, a smart government that sees a future always seeks to work with the opposition in municipalities where, possibly, the opposition is to show that it has a breadth and that it wants to co-operate with the opposition. Why? It's not because of the political party represented by the opposition, it's because of the citizens who voted for those people who run that part, or that municipality. That is why such a breadth is manifested, that is, such tolerance rather than breaking over the knee. There's a guy out there who's so excited, he forbids you from construction work, you say – now it's over. Now the decentralisation is over, it's all going to be at the level of the New Sad City Assembly. Anyway, I'm done, thank you for understanding. How much democracy in understanding, in the way of thinking, is represented, best speak these provisions when it comes to the function of the City Assembly. You are fighting for parliamentary democracy, and you are literally breaking out of the hands of the same Belgrade City Assembly. To you, the mayor is someone the Assembly chooses to control, for God's sake, it's hard. To control him greater, it depends on his will. Basically, the proposal you're changing now was at least three times at least three times a year to file a report. You have one executive organ that's completely out of place, which no one controls. What do you expect? You should expect total chaos, you must essentially get involved in solving these problems facing Belgrade, as well as all the metropolis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54834	Thank you, colleague Mircic. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Goran Pekarski. Here you go, Comrade Bakery.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54835	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected ministers with associates, it is good to have one of these laws before parliament, or a bill amending the law on the capital, here in front of parliament. These proposed changes return competences to municipalities and lead to functional decentralisation of the city of Belgrade. This is the opposite of what happened in 2008 to 2012, when Dragan Djilas was head of Belgrade, when he was mayor or Colloquial as the citizens knew to say – the thief, Dragan Gilas. He then embraced all the levers of power, centralized so much power that he lacked only a scepter and scepter, symbols of kings, so that he could lead his kingdom, which was then called Belgrade. In 2011, when he struck a final blow to centralisation of Belgrade's municipalities, when, apart from taking the responsibilities of the municipalities, my colleagues forgot to say that he was then taken away from municipalities, income from various taxis and fees from which the municipality was filling its budget, but let me say, by the generosity of the mayor, at that time the oligarch, he gave some municipalities something. So the municipality, from which I come, Grocka, paid 100% of the fees for exploiting the mines. There are no mines on the territory of the Municipality of Grock. When I tried to explain to him that in Grocko and the other 15 municipalities plus Grock, other than Lazarets, correct me if I'm wrong, there's not one mine, he said we'd get along, so we could dig something up, make some money. What's the agricultural community gonna dig for? He said dig carrots and radishes. It was the seriousness of Mayor Dragan Gilas at that time. So much power he took away, he even banned us from buying packages for the New Year's Eve kids. From Belgrade, he forbade Greece to purchase out of the budget packages for children employed in the municipal administration. We bought ourselves out of our own pockets and got the budgetary inspection of the city of Belgrade to control our business. It was the same with the flowers for March 8th. Accumulation of power and centralization if it goes into the wrong hands is a very dangerous thing, but it's also a dangerous reckless decentralisation if we make small local gods and give them enough power to rule themselves. There must be constant control. I propose to all my colleagues and I am convinced that this will be the case, and we will support this law in the voting day, as well as all the other laws that come here to parliament, and will be proposed by the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54836	Thank you, Comrade Bakery. The word is Dubravka Filipovski. Here you go, colleague Filipovski.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54837	I thank the chairman. Dear Minister Ruzic, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, is a key newspaper of the new Law on the capital's proposal, it is decentralisation and giving greater authority to municipalities in Belgrade, which are fully centralised and reduced to the level of local communities by the 2011 Statute. Why is this done? With one goal only, that the then mayor Dragan Gilas has full control over the budget in all 17 Belgrade municipalities, which is best seen by the revenues of his private firms that have increased on the one hand, and on the other hand by a debt of 1,200,000 euros, which has been left to the citizens of Belgrade, which the current government has cut down, has practically halved. By the proposal of this law, a long-standing injustice is corrected. Belgrade will be divided into two zones -- urban and suburban. It is only the first step in the area of decentralisation, thus making Belgrade's functioning more efficient, more efficient, and thus facilitating its development. The second step is to adopt statutes on the city of Belgrade, and decentralisation will be fully completed when municipalities, especially suburban ones, start to create service centres so that the largest to the citizens living in them can end all their services in the areas that are part of the municipality. This will just precede greater authority for municipalities, such as the issue of construction permits, the opening of public enterprises, the adoption of urban plans, and all of this should enable faster development and attract new investors to all 17 Belgrade municipalities. This bill will not fulfill only the political promise of the SNS, but the citizens will have the opportunity to decide what will be done in their municipalities. There is no one in Belgrade today who will tell you that Belgrade does not look better than it looked five years ago, as Belgrade will look better in the next five years than it looks today. Belgrade is today a major construction site and not only is it a "Belgrade on Water", which is indeed one big and exceptional project, but 350 arranged facades, built infrastructure, squares, streets, the fact that after so many years Belgrade first has a water processing plant and a lot more. Years ago, all this was to be done and you called the critics only thought of themselves and of their wealth. Of course, former mayor Dragan Gilas, whose companies while he was mayor, were incometing 500m euros. What I have to say is that Dragan Gilas was also a co-owner of the daily newspaper while he was mayor. Trade with a public service or "Studio B", the founder of the Belgrade City Assembly, is in fact the most dramatic example of a conflict of interest for a public office such as Dragan Gilas mayor in this case. Today, his followers are getting into the faces of workers on the streets of Belgrade, threatening them, stopping works and seeking referendums for which they do not have support in their municipalities either. My question to them is why haven't they issued a referendum for the reconstruction of King Alexander's Boulevard or for the reconstruction of the South Boulevard, or a referendum for the construction of already failed underground containers, which cost more than 10m euros? Gilas was supposed to ask the citizens of Belgrade if the Adi bridge should cost 500m euros? Whatever is done, we are today faced with an orchestrated campaign that simply goes into the situation that our colleagues, who are not here today, are definitely against everything. The politicization of the construction of "Beograd on Water" promoted by Gilas in 2011 in Cannes and who had no intention of working at all, began since then, and continues today by gondola, and it is generally known that no one was allowed to pass that part of Belgrade where nothing beautiful "Belgrade on Water" by snakes, rats, from various waste and dirt, and today the opposition and followers of Dragan Gilasa are critical of why we gave the best country to build "Belgrade on Water", and it is generally known that this country, which they today call the best, could neither handle nor clean when they were in power. In contrast, since 2012, since SNS was in power and Aleksandar Vukic, 200 companies have arrived in Serbia. Alexander Vukic opened 100 factories. There are 200,000 people working in them today, and this is today a picture of Belgrade and a picture of Serbia, opposite of 400,000 workers who lost their jobs in Serbia during the previous government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54838	Thank you, colleague Filipovski. The word is Olivera Ognjanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54839	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow workers, today, after many years on the agenda, changes and additions to the Capital Act have been found. We remember that in 2008, Gilas conducted a full centralisation of the city through the current statute, bringing Belgrade municipalities to the level of local communities. Under the current constitution, the city of Belgrade is a local self-government, but city municipalities are not, have very little authority, and that is exactly the problem. These amendments and additions to the Law make decentralisation of the city by obtaining much greater authority for both urban and suburban municipalities. On the other hand, it will clearly define the authority and authority of the city in relation to the Republic. Today we have heard what are the most important changes in this law, and the fact is that this is exactly how concerns are shown about citizens and the future. If we are talking about legalisation, we have so far had the situation that there are more than 240,000 items in the centre of Belgrade in just one place. However, citizens will now request legalisation, social protection, martial arts and numerous administrative affairs to end much faster in their municipality, which will be able to have more service centres to this end. It is an example of the Municipality of Grock, where three years ago a municipal facility opened in Kaludjerica, where citizens of Kaludjerica and surrounding places can finish jobs in one place. Here are urban, municipal and republican services, urban departments, construction and municipal jobs, public revenue administrations and others. One of the major changes is that suburban municipalities will legalise up to 3,000 square meters and issue construction permits up to 5,000 square meters and will be able to bring their urban plans beyond the general regulation plans. All of this will allow suburban municipalities to become interesting for investors and develop faster. In addition, it also states that for the first time personal maps of municipalities with economic potential have been handed over to the Foreign Investment and Export Promotion Agency, which has so far had no record of what all municipalities have. Grocka is by the Danube River and yet untapped potential. In order to facilitate availability and help citizens, several post offices have been opened in the Municipality of Grocka, and another department for administrative affairs of the MUP has also been opened in Leštane so that citizens from this part of the municipality can obtain personal documents more easily and faster. To date, more than 140 kilometers of roads have been reconstructed and renovated, and an additional 4.2km of new roads have been built. We're building a water network. It's being gassed. They're new and they're changing old sewers. The centers for social work, home health and two primary schools were renovated. New green markets have been opened. Construction of a new home of health and a new school in Lestane is expected and there are still many projects that will contribute to the development of the Municipality of Grock, which is highly dissociated and the needs of the population are different. The city of Belgrade has changed its face over the past few years and has become a real European metropolis, interesting for tourists and tempting for investors. Today, at every step of the way, some street is reconstructed and rescheduled. There is a “Belgrade on Water, ” which is already something that makes this city even more recognizable in the world, and it is a great pleasure to watch how it is built. A new bus stop is being built, Slavia is being reconstructed. The plan is to build cableways, gondolas and there are many other projects that will make this city even more beautiful, and this will also create new jobs. The city is growing rapidly, it's expanding, and we can all be proud. But while we're building, others are trying to crash. Now, thanks to President Vukic and the Serbian government led by Prime Minister Ana Brnabic, we have found a way to grow much easier and faster and build both suburban and urban municipalities. Data is our option, we have a vision. All we have to do is work. That's why in the voting day we'll support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54840	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Ana Čaapić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54841	Today and in the coming days, we are discussing and will discuss the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Capital Act. It is about a bill aimed at an even more intense development of the capital of the Republic of Serbia. With a new legal solution, we will bring into line the existing 2007 law, with all the development laws that the National Assembly adopted in the previous period. The 2007 law did not recognise the city of Belgrade as a special unit of local self-government regarding jurisdiction, which is really necessary, given that the city of Belgrade is the main and cultural and economic and economic centre of the Republic of Serbia. New legal solutions removes all shortcomings in the 2007 law and envisions the internal decentralisation of the city among 17 Belgrade municipalities, which means an even better and better quality of life in the years to come for Belgrade. The Serbian capital today represents the pride of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. As Mr Sinisha Maloko arrived on November 17th, 2013, and the Serbian Progressive Party as mayor of Belgrade, Belgrade moves through accelerated development, despite all the problems that predecessor Dragan Gilas left behind, which is a debt city of over 1.3 billion euros, over 20% of the budget deficit, more than 108 000 unemployed Belgraders, many of which were apparently the only asset and only success of Dragan Gilas. Dragan Gilas has been through affairs, such as the Tramway affair, the underground container affair, the Adi Bridge affair, the bus plus affair and many others, showed all its management skills, or that one city, such as Belgrade, should not be run. What our people would say - it was mentioned and never happened again. The "tramway" affair, where 30 Spanish trams were purchased, has left more than half of them out of office, Belgraders and Serbian citizens have been damaged by about 53m euros. The famous "underground containers" affair has damaged citizens by over sixm euros, and according to some estimates of the investigative authorities, over 63m dinars have just ended up in the pockets of members and officials of the Democratic Party, which is really embarrassing. Then there was the famous "Adi Bridge" affair, where Dragan Djilas paid as much as ninem euros to speed up the works and thus the citizens of Belgrade funded the Democratic Party's pre-election campaign, which is really embarrassing. For all we have said, my colleagues and I, Serbian citizens have punished the previous regime in the elections. Unlike the previous regime, the Serbian Progressive Party delivers its promises and ends all jobs. Today, Belgrade is a city of cranes and cranes, as well as many cities in the Republic of Serbia. Belgrade has become the most attractive tourist destination in the world, confirming data on the number of foreign tourists, and every year the number increases by as much as 20%. Belgrade has received renewed squares, which are the Flower Square, Slavia Square, which is adorned by one of the most beautiful fountains in Europe, and I can freely say, in my opinion, it is much nicer than that fountain in Barcelona. Work is under way to rebuild the Republic Square, which those from the Alliance for Serbia, by destroying the protective fences, want to disrupt, rather than leaving them, in addition to affairs and debts, to the city and Belgrade. Only after 15 years did Belgrade receive a renovated building of the National Museum, then there is the Museum of Contemporary Art, the Museum of Illusion, which, except in Vienna, can be praised by our country. Also, the project "Belgrade on Water", which is nothing before us, is worth as much as 3.5 billion euros. So every day it's being built up and the project ends. There are hundreds of kilometers of restored and paved roads, facades, etc., etc. So, the Capital Act will affect the improvement of the lives of all citizens and, of course, of the people of Belgrade. The law is absolutely in the development function and, of course, the Serbian Progressive Party parliamentary group will support both this law and all other laws concerning the development of all 174 local self-government in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54842	Thank you, colleague Charapich. The word is Vera Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54843	Dear Mr Marinkovic, Ministers with Associates, fellow MPs, Serbian citizens, the proposed Law on the capital is necessary to comply with laws that have been passed in the meantime, that is, with laws that have undergone amendments and additions, and which regulate certain issues of importance for the work and functioning of local self-government, and this is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Self-Government, the Law on Planning and Construction, the Law on Public Property, the Law on reducing the risk of disasters and the management of emergency situations, the Law on Higher Education. The bill provides for exceptions to other local self-government units. Of the 11 exceptions provided for by this law, I'll be talking about the first one, which is that municipal networks can only be owned by the perpetrator of municipal activity. Since I come from the municipality of Rakovic, I cannot help but mention the completed first phase of the sewerage network in Resnik, the settlement on Ljubisa Jelenkovica Street, and compared to the sewerage in one part is reconstructed and the plumbing network will be completed in the next four years. The problem facing citizens on the ground daily is so-called. The white water lines of the water network. It's a network built on wild, unplanned, realised mostly by citizens' self-sufficientness. The problem is not the only problem in the municipality of Rakovica, but also in other parts of the city, so there is a shooting of the pipe, so citizens face daily problems of the disappearance of water. But thanks to responsibility in Belgrade's waterway and sewerage and good co-operation of the Rakovic municipality with employees in this municipal organisation, these problems are being solved daily. These problems have been around for many years, and the previous government has promised citizens before each election to solve these vital problems, but their personal problems have been preferred. With the arrival of the responsible government, formed by the SNS with its coalition partners, everything has changed, including in Belgrade. We promise, but we do. The plan to develop the Belgrade system, and to ensure sufficient water levels, in line with new increased urban requirements, needs to provide funds and implement primary water system facilities, a plan for the development of the Belgrade sewerage system and the implementation of the central sewerage subsystem, which means building priority facilities in the atmospheric water evacuation system. In order to implement all plans made at the level of this municipal enterprise, i.e. Belgrade water and sewerage must create an opportunity for the network to be owned by the perpetrator, i.e. BVK, in order for the company to carry out its own activities on its own in order to finance and carry out its activities. The possibility of municipal networks being part of a public service operator is made efficient and improves quality in the provision of utility services. In voting day, I call on my colleagues to pass this proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54844	Thank you. The word is from the People's MP Dusko Tarbuk.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54845	The respected chairman, respected ministers with co-workers, respected citizens of Serbia, through the adoption of amendments and the addition of the Capital Act, will achieve their goal, which is to bring it into line with a number of sectoral laws, as well as more precise powers regarding the determination of competences relating to certain issues of importance for the better life of Belgrade's citizens. Part of the more precise powers concern construction, reconstruction, maintenance, management of public and untegorised roads in Belgrade's territory. Individual powers will ensure a better quality of service for Belgrade's citizens, all in line with Belgrade's capacity. The most important change to be made by this law is the decentralisation of the city of Belgrade. The city of Belgrade will be divided into two zones, seven suburban municipalities will be in the first zone, and in the second zone 10 city municipalities will be in the city zone. Thus, suburban and urban municipalities will have much greater powers than they now have. Following the adoption of this law, the adoption of the Belgrade City Statute will follow, which will allow a number of changes. One of the most important changes is that city municipalities will legalize up to 400 square meters and carry out construction permits up to 1500 square meters. And suburban municipalities will legalize up to 3,000 square meters and give building permits up to 5,000 square meters. Thus, suburban municipalities will be able to get the right to bring urban plans, all of course in agreement with the city of Belgrade, which will allow them to develop faster and better attract domestic and foreign investors, which is of course very important. One of the good items of this law is that it will allow suburban municipalities to establish public enterprises in agreement with the city of Belgrade, which is an excellent example of this law for me. All I've been talking about so far is the essence of this law, and I hope that it will come to life as soon as possible and that in full capacity in the municipalities it will be able to manage and know that it answers this law that can only bring profit to the citizens, because many things will be able to solve in the territory of its municipal authorities. I hope the ministry has the mechanisms to clear this law and help it live as soon as possible. My esteemed and esteemed colleagues in the voting day, I ask them to support this law, because it is truly effective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54846	Thank you, Comrade Tarbuk. The word has Milan Ljubic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54847	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected MPs, the Capital Act regulates the position, competencies and authorities of the city of Belgrade as the capital of the Republic of Serbia, while issues not governed by this law are applied through the provisions of the Law on Local Self-Government. The amendments and additions to the laws aim to regulate Belgrade's position as a special territorial unit, a continent that is specific because of its size, the number of inhabitants, but also because it is the economic, financial, traffic and cultural centre of the Republic of Serbia with the position of the capital of the Republic of Serbia. Making it possible for the city of Belgrade to transfer to city municipalities in its composition a greater number of jobs than the existing regulation allows. Due to the specificities of the city of Belgrade, it is necessary to create appropriate regulation and opportunities for the transfer of more city affairs to urban municipalities, which according to the law, the city of Belgrade educates. The municipalities will get part of the responsibility, so it won't be all the responsibility in town. The goal is to direct contact with citizens, achieve decentralisation, improve the quality and efficiency of doing jobs that are within the authority of the city of Belgrade, which is the aim of education of urban municipalities. City municipalities are given the opportunity to establish public enterprises with the previous agreement of the Belgrade City Assembly. The possibility of city municipalities being able to establish public enterprises with the consent of the Belgrade City Assembly is also foreseen. Due to the divergence of territory, as well as urban municipalities, the proposed solutions create conditions for more efficient and quality performance from the city's jurisdiction. This specifically refers to the performance of municipal activities. The law provides that certain urban plans bring urban municipalities to their respective areas, if provided for in the Statute of the City. City municipalities are those who have better insight into urban problems and the needs of citizens on the ground. This would create conditions for faster and more comprehensive coverage of the city's territory through urban plans. With this law, the city of Belgrade will receive a range of competencies, agricultural inspection, education, sports, authority when it comes to abortions, water and marinas. The former government has unfunctionally led Belgrade, dissuading and making it difficult for the city to function normally and develop, not allowing any jurisdiction to the municipalities. It was a policy of debauchery. The price was paid by citizens who often had to go more than 30 or 40 kilometers [30 or 40 km] from the most remote settlements for each document to get regular paper. It's all different now. We have 10 urban and seven suburban municipalities that will have much greater powers, which will shorten the way for citizens and facilitate the procurement of documents and problem solving. These proposals would allow suburban municipalities that are undeveloped to develop better, to invest larger funds. It would allow investors to invest more in seven suburban municipalities. All of this would be accompanied by traffic connections, creating opportunities for investment and new jobs. It envisions building an internal master's ring, continuing construction of a bypass around Belgrade. Belgrade is today a major construction site, a magnet for investors and large infrastructure projects. The value of these investments is around 12 billion euros over the next 10 years. Construction of a new Sava bridge, the construction of a new tunnel that will connect the Sava and Danube coast, the construction of the first subway station in the Makiška polje, whose value of the projects exceeds four billion euros. As the city of Belgrade, it issues more building permits than all local self-government combined and is therefore incomparable. In the last two years, construction permits have been issued for more than two million squares. This law stipulates that future urban and suburban municipalities have a precisely precise legalisation of the issue of construction permits, which will allow them to develop faster. The application of this law is the most important thing regarding the further development of the city. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54848	Thank you, colleague Ljubic. The word is Milimir Vujadinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54849	Thank you, Chairman. Respected members of the government, respected colleagues, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I am not a resident of the capital, including many in this room. However, this certainly does not mean that I am less concerned with the progress of our capital and our capital compared to those whose life and work is fully related to the capital. I am sure, and this is also well known today, that Belgrade is the most important point in Serbia, one of the most important places for every resident of the Republic of Serbia, but I am also sure that it is also a beacon and a orientation for every citizen and every country that lives in the environment in both Republika Srpska and Montenegro, Macedonia and beyond, I am sure. Now and that fact should never be forgotten. The progress of the capital is certainly a signal of the progress of the Republic of Serbia, and of our people, as well as of the Serbian National Corps in the Balkans, in general. This progress is both evident and measurable and visible. It is often more visible to us who come from some other local self-government than to people who live and do their daily life activities in Belgrade. Believe me, differences are quite evident. The differences concern the number of cranes and the number of construction sites in Belgrade. The difference stems from all other differences compared to some previous period, which undoubtedly affect the quality of life of every man in Belgrade, and ultimately every man, as a consequence of every man's life in the Republic of Serbia. That level was difficult to achieve, especially if you take into account all that the city's government met and in 2014 when the responsibility for Belgrade's management took over SNS in terms of unemployment, city responsibilities, state of public and public-community enterprises, infrastructure conditions, start-ups, unrealised projects, etc. All these projects, we see, are now completed, some new ones are beginning to rejoice at every resident in Belgrade and every resident in the Republic of Serbia. What is very important to all of us living outside Belgrade is that this progress of Belgrade and this development of projects in Belgrade has not remained, I say, a shadow to all other projects in the Republic of Serbia. At the same time, it was invested and developed, if you will, both in Grdelica and Preljina, and in Ljig, and in Subotica, and on Palic. After all, and where our countrymen live in Republika Srpska, Montenegro and other surrounding countries. What's the result of all this? The result of all this is certainly a major action raised by opponents of Serbia, because Serbia and our Corps in general will never forgive you in the Balkans. The result is attacks on whoever was the bearer and initiator of these and such projects in the Republic of Serbia, above all, the president of the state of Aleksandar Vukic. The result is attacks on his family, not choosing whether it's an attack on his children, his mother, his father, his brother, anyone. And the result is the bestial attacks on those little ones, I should say, under quotes, ordinary people. There are no ordinary and unusual ones, but to say the people who are working on construction sites around Belgrade today, and the goal is essentially to stop the president of the state, stop both works and projects that contribute to both Belgrade and the Republic of Serbia. We are today, we Members of the SNS, deeply aware of this, as all citizens of the Republic of Serbia are, and be safe, respected ministers, and respected members of the Government, that we will continue to be your allies at work to improve the legislative legislation in the Republic of Serbia, and also at the job of passing this law that is before us today, which will undoubtedly contribute to the future, better quality and better life of Belgrade and Belgrade. But don't forget the quality and better life of each and every one of us, who we look at in Belgrade today, as the center of this country of Serbia and all of our countrymen whose Belgrade today is a lighthouse and a orientation, all of our citizens and countrymen living in the environment. With that in mind, there, once again, let me tell you in the voting day, be sure that we will support this law and that we will have a quite large majority to allow this law to be adopted in this respected home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54850	Thank you, colleague Vujadinović. The word is Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54851	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Dear ministers with associates, we have a very important bill in the principle debate concerning the capital and that will improve the performance of jobs in Belgrade and in all urban and suburban municipalities. What I would point out from this bill is solutions that put the accent on citizens, because it is actually the most important goal of lawmaking, but also of great importance to local self-government itself. In that sense, extending the city's municipalities' competence is a logical proposal. In particular, I'd like to commend the idea of new service centers so that citizens can go to the neighborhoods where they live to do the jobs they'd have to go to the municipality for. And there, therefore, is the difference between the Belgrade authorities by 2012 and after 2012, when the SNS assumed responsibility. What would be said is that it did not return. But unfortunately, today we have another example that is current. We have an example of a president of a municipality whose behavior and public participation is at least problematic. It's about Mark Bastac, president of the Old Town municipality, who regularly blocks works in the Republic Square, blocks and roads, I haven't done anything wrong. It's a big battle with building and traffic signs, harassing people out there just doing their job, destroying the property of the city. I now ask him – what will he say to the citizens of Belgrade, why are they paying for the damage, why are they obliged to pay for his savagery? I ask him, and what will he tell his fellow citizens of Old Town, if his actions slow his work, what will be his excuse for it? Is it responsible for the behaviour of a president of the municipality who in his working time is blocking the works, instead of using it in a quality way, to provide something to citizens living in the territory of the Old Town municipality? As far as the concrete solutions set out in this proposal are concerned, I have spoken to my colleagues and colleagues from Belgrade and who have also assured me that most importantly, these solutions are also practical, so that this law will have my support in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54852	Thank you, colleague Žarić Kovacevic. The word is Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go, colleague Vukojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54853	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, fellow MPs and MPs, we have before us today a bill on amendments and additions to the Capital Act and what is doubtless, it is that the SNS supports this law in the day of voting. What's the reason for supporting this law? First of all, what is most important in the proposal for this law is decentralisation, i.e. the transfer of competence from the city to the city municipalities. What is achieved in this way? Greater availability and greater opportunity for citizens to achieve all the rights that are important for achieving their daily living needs on the territory, that is, the city in which they live. How's that been so far? In 2011 The statute of the city of Belgrade carried out a complete centralisation of the city. What does that really mean? This basically means that a full centralisation of the budget and full control of the budget and the budgetary developments, as well as money, was carried out exclusively by Mayor Dragan Gilas. One of the authorities of the city of Belgrade is certainly also supporting sustainable housing development. I will now give an example of how the mayor of Belgrade, Dragan Gilas, cared about the housing of the most sensitive and vulnerable social groups, which are Roma. He has displaced 239 Roma families from Belgrade, putting them in forced buses, and one part of Roma families, otherwise a total of 1,000 Roma family members, put them in metal containers, in conditions that are unworthy of man. Imagine, in front of the cameras he said – I don't solve the Roma question, I solve the question, and indeed, he solved the locations for tycoons and for the builders with whom he was involved. First of all, I mean tycoon Miskovic. By coming to power in Belgrade, the SNS continued to implement a project that was supported by the EU and for 237 Roma families provided apartments and rural houses in the Palilula municipality, in Zemun, in Obrenovac and other places. Belgrade is one of the cities that has really solved one of the most important issues of the Roma in a systematic, comprehensive way and has really done much to involve them in all social life flows. As for other vulnerable groups, I must point out that Dragan Gilas during the exercise of power in Belgrade, on the Big Brother project, and by justifying him to work the living room for children, earned millions of money and today its revenues are estimated at around 500m euros. In contrast, the SNS comes to power in Belgrade and is working to protect and help the most vulnerable social groups. I'm only gonna do some of those activities. That's for example. Airport for children and youth which opened on 25 February 2019, at 1,700 square meters for 48 users. Within it is a stop for 30 children. For more than two decades, it was supposed to wait for one such shelter to open. On April 2, 2019, to mark the international day of people with autism, one of the most important organisational units was opened to improve the quality of life of children with disabilities, which is the service “Predah”. In the first place, the SNS is to improve the quality of life of every citizen of the Republic of Serbia and that is why we will support this law in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54854	Thank you, colleague Vukojičić. He's got a word for it. Dr. Milovan Krikapic. I'm sorry, Doctor, I skipped you. It was a mistake. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54855	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues, as regards the Bill on Amendments and Supplements of the Capital Act, I can say that since the adoption of the Law on the Capital of 2007 there has been enough time to obtain a number of reasons to amend and supplement it, in order, among other things, to further define, improve, or improve and predict new solutions. More specifically, in order to comply with the provisions of this law with the laws governing certain issues of importance for the work and functioning of local self-government. President Aleksandar Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia are taking the state seriously and are seriously considering the future of our country, and this is why it has seen the need to set up necessary, legal and economic mechanisms in this area, to attract, among other things, private investment involving building facilities, which will contribute to the creation of new jobs, both in the building and in other areas, as a result of strengthening overall economic activity. The Serbian Progressive Party has promised the citizens decentralisation of the capital, and what we have promised to do through the adoption of this law, unlike the previous government which also promised decentralisation, and then adopted such a statute of the city that has completely centralised Belgrade in order to better and easier control of all flows, resulting in the merger of financial resources into one register. After the adoption of this law, the adoption of a new statute of the city, which again and a half million times corrects the catastrophic errors of the DS authorities. The essence of SNS policy is that citizens are satisfied, that their lives are easier, that they can finally breathe with their lungs and think with their heads. In this sense, the aim is also to adopt this law that allows citizens to open service centres at the level of the municipality, so that the population will be able to bring 90% of things closer to one place and thus the level of decision-making to the citizens as well as the essence of politics. I must stress that the special support for the adoption of this law has been given by President Aleksandar Vukic and Prime Minister Ana Brnabic, and his adoption will allow the city to develop faster, the people in him to live more comfortable and better. Definitely and doubtless, the adoption of the Capital Act is a major event for Belgrade, and I point out once again that the promise made by the SNS has been fulfilled and that citizens will decide more on what will be done in their municipalities. It is very important that this law be adopted in an urgent manner and due to the start of procedures concerning the construction and legalisation of buildings so that they can be implemented and completed as soon as possible in order not to cause adverse consequences for citizens, businesses, as insecurity in legal traffic, i.e. to ensure the smooth work of bodies and organisations. Finally, the proposed legislative solutions would make the work of the city's authorities and city municipalities much more efficient and lead to a more even solution for all citizens in Belgrade's territory, so the SNS will vote to pass this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54856	Thank you, Dr. Krivokapic. The word is made by MP Dragan Savkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54857	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, honourable fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I will talk about the bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the Capital. According to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, units of local self-government and municipalities, cities, and the city of Belgrade, in accordance with the Constitution and law, the city of Belgrade has a special constitutional and legal position that maintains the specificity of the city of Belgrade compared to other units of local self-government. However, the existing Capital Act has not consistently implemented this specificity. Also, it is necessary to bring the capital law into line with other laws governing certain issues of importance for the city of Belgrade. As I said, the city of Belgrade is specific to other local self-government units because of its territory and population. One of the major changes provided for by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law applies to municipal networks. The change creates the conditions for the same position as those of the employees of municipal activity, whose founder is the city and legal persons whose founder is the Republic. In this way, it is possible to carry out on its own activities in order to finance this activity. Article 2 The proposal on changes and additions to the capital, the city's municipalities of Barajevo, Grocka, Lazarevic, Mladenovac, Obrenovac, Sopot and Surcin are scheduled to establish a public utility with the previous agreement of the Belgrade City Assembly. In accordance with the statute of the city, which will be established by the authority of the city municipality, which exercises the rights of the founders. In this way, the performance of certain activities is foreseen for urban municipalities, which have invested in municipal systems in their area for decades, which are outside the public utility-controlled system established by the city. It is therefore necessary to provide for the possibility of setting up public enterprises by the city's municipalities. In fact, it is necessary to make sure that urban municipalities can monitor their work in a comprehensive manner and, in certain cases, finance their work. This is particularly important, as the town municipalities of Barajevo, Grocka, Lazarevic, Mladenovac, Obrenovac, Sopot and Sručin are mentioned, and the possibility of them to establish public enterprises and manage municipal activity was also envisaged by earlier legal acts. In this way, it makes a significant contribution to the better functioning of these very edged urban areas. It is also possible for suburban municipalities to better organise jobs that are important for the local population. When it comes to urban plans, the Law on Planning and Construction has in a special way ruled out the possibility of dividing these jobs between the city and city municipalities organised in Belgrade's territory. Such a legal solution is introduced by establishing the authority of the authority of the authority to adopt individual plans under the jurisdiction of the units of local self-government. Under the law, jurisdiction is entrusted to the Assembly of the Local Self-Government Unit. The proposal to amend and supplement the Capital Act establishes the possibility that certain urban plans can also bring urban municipalities. The adoption of the Amendments and Supplements to the Capital Act removes all shortcomings. Also, the city's statutes provide for a more precise relationship between the city of Belgrade and city municipalities in the area of disaster risk reduction and emergency management. The proposed solutions contribute to a more rational and efficient performance of jobs in the interests of citizens and a more uniform development of all parts of the city. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54858	Thanks, buddy. The word has Professor Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54859	Dear Vice-President Marinkovic, honourable ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course I will support this draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Capital, as most MPs of the ruling coalition have declared. Let me say that so far the city of Belgrade has been treated as a special unit of local self-government and as such has had such competences. These changes and additions extend the jurisdiction of the capital other than those given to local self-government precisely because of its complexity. The colleagues discussed this more today, as you know, Belgrade is also the main administrative, administrative, economic, cultural and political centre of the Republic of Serbia. Dear Ministers, we also care about the moral qualities of leading people of the capital. We didn't take enough care of that at the time of the party of the former regime. Imagine the mayor of Belgrade, then the mob and the Giki Mafia called it. In the flood of various mafias after October 5th, the garbage mob was so-called, it was one of the first to be hit. I'll give this example to the end. The mafia has damaged citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and for its own good, for 310 million dinars. Although it was originally sentenced to 73 years in prison, however, the Court of Appeal released them after 11 years of conducting the procedure, but it is open to doubt, ladies and gentlemen the MPs, the respected citizens of Serbia, that so-called. The garbage mob was linked to Dragan Gilas and his political, financial mafia, so she was released. The prosecution should take a little care of this problem. The mayor, Dragan Gilas, in a people called the Giki Mafia, committed the robbery of Telekom Srbija as mayor, when the state-owned company under Gilas' political pressure was forced to buy four Gilasov cable channels, i.e. his Arena sport, for 7.7m euros, although the state-owned company was then legally not supposed to own the media. Dear citizens, this is the mayor of the capital. When he started politics, you know what he was? Back then, he was just naked. He made it to a mobster with 700,000 euros, known in the people as today's Giki Mafia. All DS executives are like that, nothing's better. That's not just what I'm saying. That's what their former member and their ambassador, the former St.Svetislav Bashar, says. He says that the party, I quote, is "a self-administrative community of mules and thieves", the quote was completed, said Svetislav Bashara on May 22nd, 2019. It's not just him. Remember Dragan Šutanovac, in a people called "the kidnapper". It damaged the budget no less than 47,000 dinars. Imagine how far he brought the Army. To the level of fire company. He used to melt cannons, he used to melt tanks. Believe it or not, the Security and Democracy Forum for 15 years of work has given him a special recognition for what is said to be quoted as saying: "an exceptional contribution to the democratisation of the Security and Defence System Reform sector", the quote concluded. Respected citizens of Serbia, the forum has been assigned to him, and these are the ones who persuaded our country to bomb, don't think it's a serious forum, it's a NATO duster forum. Let me finally say that I will uphold this law. Since my colleagues spoke extensively of him, so much of me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54860	Thank you, dear Professor Atlagic. The word has Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go, colleague Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54861	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm going to use a few minutes to make myself known, and I'm going to confirm the support of the proposed law. What today could have been heard on the subject of comments which were trying to resent something and with express intentions to contribute in a good way to the adoption of this law decentralisation, but also to make some of the arguments put forward today in this room by the MPs of the SNS ranks, but also by other members of the parliamentary majority concerned first of all the question whether decentralisation is really contributing or not to this proposal that we are discussing today. This could first and foremost be interpreted through the relationship with whether or not to get something more for the city, whether they are getting something more real city municipalities today. They say it's not like that. So when you look at who, the list of those who failed to become city councils, that is, qualify for the city's parliament. In the 2018 Belgrade City Assembly elections, neither did the former representatives of Sasa Radulovic, who discussed it with us today, nor are those from that foundation or organisation with yellow ducks, and we talked about them today, and they came forward. They're not anybody else, but today they're bothered by what we're talking about, and they resent our notes that decentralisation is actually being achieved. One member, ladies and gentlemen, will serve as an example to illustrate what Belgrade gets more and what city municipalities get more. Only one member is more than enough. Article 3 of the proposal concerns Article 8 and it speaks of competences. He says that in addition to the authority of the municipality and the city established by the Constitution and the law, the city of Belgrade has more, and a list of 23 competencies, according to a new formulation. When you compare what it looked like in the original law and the 2007 law, under that article, 8 that changes is a total of four points. And all of what's mentioned under those four points falls in line at points 1, 2, 3 and I think 21 of the new proposal, again in broad form. In addition, 18 completely new powers are foreseen, completely new, so, what the 2007 law did not foresee today, Belgrade, when I say today, at the moment when we come to the vote, and I am sure and support it, will be able to count on it, from those 18 or 19, completely new. The view of the 2nd member is that for some jobs, the city of Belgrade can redistribute on the basis of statutes, i.e. to continue to entrust them with the city's municipalities and today they have spoken to me all who have applied for the discussion. They refer to works of building permits, i.e. other works in the context of a unified procedure, and related to planning and construction. They refer to agricultural affairs and refer to expropriation. So, directly urban municipalities get responsibilities that they didn't have, there's room for that. This is solely based on one single example of a single member of this law. So, unequivocally yes. The more they win the city, the more they get city halls. Not to be understood by those who have failed to qualify to deal directly with the city of Belgrade, it is more than logical to do so. What concerns me, I must admit, is that it is not understood by some who are, at least formally, and not essentially, in the Assembly of the City of Belgrade, by the parliamentary group chaired by Dragan Gilas, but it seems to me about a month or two ago that he retired from the position of the head of the parliamentary group, with the excuse that he can't be able to deal with it because of other obligations, I don't know just what kind. It seems to me that his political obligations on the day of today were to move that tent from the park outside this building to Književec and there in Književec, by the installation of the tent, of course, to give an inspirational speech for a total of three, letter and number, three present. For these reasons, he withdrew from the post of chairman of his parliamentary group. He took it upon himself to perform a younger man. This younger man claims that it is absolutely unacceptable that the councils do not decide to amend the law. To avoid education of those who are not, unfortunately, using time in a useful way to learn something about what the National Assembly is doing, who is dealing with laws, and what is the job of city councils, I would add just one more thing to the end. Those people who simply cannot find a way to justify persistent denial, persistent denial of all good and all useful for both the Republic of Serbia and the city of Belgrade and city municipalities or whatever level of organisation, these people have a problem with themselves. So, being an opposition, as some may seem to interpret it, has been given a new kind of definition these days. Until just a day or two ago, it seems to mean the following by force of bad opportunities in Serbia, to be against absolutely everything he does, absolutely everything that Aleksandra Vukic, SNS, the Government, against anything only if it comes from that side. In recent days, it seems to me, and we have seen it on the basis of how these people have set themselves up when we have discussed amendments and additions to the Criminal Code, that is, what this people most often call "Tiana's Law", it has become something even more of a dimension worse and scarier. Now it's become – to be absolutely against everything, everything in turn. What it means at the level of political perspective and future, these people will, I'm sure, have the opportunity to see for themselves. The elections, whenever they are and at whatever level they seem to be, will leave below the censorship line all those people who have shown that they are unable to be better than those who are able to control everything that Alexander Vukic or the Government does, or the parliamentary majority, and now against everything, absolutely everything, just because they feel they can't control their impotence, their anxiety. That it won't be better than that, I don't have to say it. If they had more perspective, they wouldn't be called censors by their comrades like Nikola. We will support this and we will improve in this area of opportunity in our country and in our capital. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54862	Thank you, colleague Orlic. Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic is not present. Since we have completed the debate on this list and since there are no more statements on the lists of parliamentary groups, I ask before the opening of the principled search – whether the Presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used their right under Article 96 want to do so. Rules of Procedure? The People's Messenger George Komlensky has the word. Here you go, Comrade Komlensky.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54863	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will continue where the discussion we had during the afternoon stood, at least in the part I was talking about. This is a moment that can be a serious turning point in how further decentralisation of the city of Belgrade will be done when it comes to urban municipalities and how much new quality it will bring to future work. I fear that some things that are as I understand them are proposed by these changes and additions, which is that the property of all public enterprises, public-communal, infrastructure becomes the property of the city of Belgrade. I have put the amendment into that part, given one fact that is undeniable, which is that suburban municipalities have made huge investments in the development of their public enterprises and their utility companies in a long time ago, from companies that have been engaged in the production of garbage, in the maintenance of hygiene, now the Public Enterprise for the construction of the city, the Public Company for the Protection of the Environment and so on, I would not like to list the experience that at least from Obrenovac I bear. It is now not just a question of the Obrenovac municipality as part of Belgrade and part of the city's government, or even a question of citizens' property. I'll remind you, what we forgot, what was the fluid of a socialist self-government society, it was only contributions. At a time where citizens have singled out personal funds to build something that today, based on such unregulated legal changes, would become the property of the city of Belgrade. You know, every one of us likes to do something, when he's investing in something to know that it's his work and he has interests and reasons to engage and work on it in particular. I do not see any reason for the city's municipalities, especially those experienced, to have a tradition, where it will not be easy at all for the city of Belgrade and the administration of the city of Belgrade to take over the functioning of the municipal system, to remain in a position without special procedures to become founders of a public utility, i.e. what is currently the property of the public utility. In the end, even if it is the property of the city of Belgrade, but also the right to use and dispose of the property is something that is necessary in order to have a certain stimulant for good work, for good business and for further investment. I said that it was once self-indulgence, today because Obrenovac was quite neglected, by 2012, we have a situation that is rich, almost 20% and some territory of Obrenovac does not have drinking water, does not even have proper drinking water when the wells are concerned, and that the expansion of the network, along with the primaries that invests in the city of Belgrade and the town municipality of Obrenovac and the citizens themselves invest their own resources, and then the pipes that are placed in the country are transferred into their own local water line so that they can be maintained, used and operated. So, if we want this law to be stimulating, and not destimulating for, I have to continue to use suburban municipalities, that the systems are functioning there rather than they are, I think we should seriously consider the restrictions that this law might leave behind and prevent the statutes from expanding the powers still decentralised the authority of the city's municipality. It might be much simpler if the suburban municipalities and the management of these municipalities could behave as the management of the Old Town or New Belgrade, because all major investments, means everything that needs to be invested in knowledge, effort, work, works for the city of Belgrade and worked for the city of Belgrade. It is easy to be a successful mayor of New Belgrade, when the city of Belgrade is working both water and heating and asphalting the streets, so it takes care of everything, and it can allow itself to pay attention to buying two buckets of paint, coloring a playground there, buying a basket and a board from the municipal budget, and acting as the good president of the municipality or some important manager without essentially doing anything else. I have to confess that this town hall has something good, and it's inherited from an earlier and very good human administration, so it's even easier to act as a successful and important president of the municipality. Come to be the president of the municipality in Obrenovac, so you should go to Brovic where the water has not yet arrived or be the president of the Municipality of Grock or Mladenvac or Surcin, to face your fellow citizens who, of course, expect to live in the 21st century as well as those living in downtown Belgrade. I apologize to these municipality presidents, these managements, if I haven't counted one of these suburban municipalities yet, respecting the fact that many people who run the city's municipalities are also very capable, they would never have thought of being foolish and idiotic to prevent them from setting up the square in Belgrade for which first they don't spend the budget funds of their municipalities, that they abuse workers there, and that they're giving away an unprecedented nonsense that I haven't really been able to hear, which is that they're going to discuss a referendum whether to perform the works on the Republic Square. I was really wondering if that president of the municipality had helped someone come up with that kind of nonsense or if he really managed to come up with it himself. Imagine now that someone would allow the citizens of Old Town to ask themselves such questions, so Old Town is a municipality and territory and territory and the square of the Republic something that belongs to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Well, it's not my Brovic, out there somewhere at the end of the Obrenovac municipality, and even the centre of Brovic couldn't behave like that, maybe some lower end to the Tamnava, so we could say there we'll be making a referendum, whether we're making a new arboretum or not making an arboretum? Should we plant poplars or not plant poplars? Either the road goes this way or it won't because it doesn't touch other people. The Belgrade centre concerns every citizen of the Republic of Serbia and now appears there some smart monster who will now organise a referendum to prevent works that should have been done ten years ago, but those thieves with whom they together in the coalition did not think to do so, they only wanted to know how much money they could steal from the bridge on Ada. I agree with all those who will say the bridge is there, the bridge is beautiful, the bridge is beautiful. There's only one thing we forget, for that amount of money stolen on that bridge, the whole of Sava could be in bridges paved from Ada gypsies to mouth with the Danube. I'm sure of something like that knowing how much Pupin's bridge was paid, how much was paid for the second strip of bridge that crossed the Beige when it was done in the other direction. We need to be aware that we need to take account of and be responsible for the adoption of this law, of course I expect the City Assembly to be very responsible when it transfers powers, so that they can provide the reason, the need and the obligation of each of the local self-government to fight to make their municipal systems and all other systems that they care about and everything that is in their jurisdiction work as well as possible. We'll talk about the amendments from Friday. Please just think about them, I'm not saying they're ideal, but these are reasons and motives that need to be considered seriously. Whoever's talking, decentralisation costs money, and I'll do it again. The quality of life of the citizens of Mladenvec, Obrenovac, Lazarec, Surcin and all those who are not within the circle of the two are not allowed here to remove certain services that are necessary for a greater number of citizens, and this is happening at the moment with the Administration of Revenue and it is absolutely unacceptable, because simply, from Brović, from Dren, from some other villages people come to the center of Obrenovac because they want to or because they need to come. Imagine now if only older people come because of the need for Obrenovac, and they have to come to Chukarica for revenue management, just because I think someone's gone too far to rationalize something, and he hasn't opened the space for that type of service to be replaced properly or to function so that these people do it uninterruptedly. Ladies and gentlemen, in our own home each of us, in our family, in our local community, in our municipality, in our city, the Republic of Serbia lives on how much each of us is trying to live as well as we do, to invest energy in our work, in the creation of quality, and I expect that this law will really be a big step for the decentralisation of Belgrade, and I hope that with these tiny adjustments that I have proposed it will be a really big step in decentralisation, but in the right direction that I have spoken of and these city municipalities that are very important to every citizen in the territory of the city of Belgrade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54864	Thank you, colleague Komlenski. The word is Alexander Markovic. Here you go, colleague Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54865	Thank you, Chairman. This whole day's debate was exhausting. Everyone has brought forth their vision of this bill. We've heard all the important reasons that go directly to support this law, but we haven't heard any complaints in this room because the pigeons have decided again that they're better off going to the park to feed the pigeons than to come to their jobs that they usually get paid for. Some of them, however, have tried to bring out some of the criticisms of the proposed legal solutions, although it is mostly nonsense and false. We heard that, as my distinguished colleague Orlic spoke, we heard that Nikola Jovanovic, the city's councilman in the City Assembly, complain that he could not give an opinion on this bill. One piece of advice for him, and that is, let him run for the Messenger of the people. Perhaps sometimes his political option, in a few dozen years, will be able to cross the census, and then he will become a proper MP, and then he will be able to give an opinion on every draft law that comes into the agenda of the National Assembly. By then, let him learn first how the City Hall works where the councilman is, and as I hear he's having trouble finding out, he doesn't know where the office office is, or where the hall is, or where the administrative building is. Furthermore, we have Sanda Raskovic Ivić, who also had to be at her job today, but she didn't come, but she tried to tweet. I'm deliberately stressing the attempts, because I don't think anyone alive has been able to figure out what she wrote about. On Twitter, the amendments to the Capital Act suggest: a public vote, not a secret one, an extension of the city's jurisdiction from seven to 23, no obligation to report, a city. V, well, then he'll handle complaints in a bold way... No one alive understands what she is, I think she doesn't understand anything when it comes to the bill itself. We got that Bastache. And this one is tweeted, so he says, "I don't agree with the previous speaker, Komlenski, I think this is the stupidest thing he's ever said." He said that the majority deputy, that's where he thinks of Goran Vesic, is clinically insane and that he steals the city center. I really don't know how it's possible for someone to steal the city center. Tom Bastac, I think it would be wiser to address the fact that the municipality of Stari Grad, whose president, the only municipality, is beware, not in Belgrade, the only municipality in Serbia that does not apply the electronic issue of documents, believe it or not. I think he was wiser to explain to the citizens of Old Town why it is, than to fight traffic signs and to interfere with works. We have this genius, it's a real treat for the end, genius Balsa Bozovic, who said at a press conference -- the Serbian Progressive Party, and in light of today's law, does not allow Belgrade's to choose the mayor directly. I lost track when I read this. Well, his Democratic Party, for the 2008 elections, will surely remember that, Mr. Chairman, for the 2008 local elections, has changed the law so that Gilas does not have to run directly, because that the candidate would never directly become mayor of Belgrade. They changed the law for going to local elections, but not in the immediate suit, but in the list, and so Gilas managed to somehow become, unfortunately, the mayor of all Belgrade citizens. He is today saying that the SNS does not allow Belgrade's citizens to directly elect mayors. So this is a really big shame. Given that we are running out of time, I only want to underline in one sentence what is most important, therefore also for the SNS, which is – this law allows further decentralisation, I know that this has been repeated several times, but I need to point out once again for the citizens, further decentralisation, strengthening the authority of urban municipalities, faster development, especially suburban municipalities and lowering levels, decision-making closer to citizens. That's the essence of this law, and that's what SNS stands for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-22-0.u54866	Thank you, colleague Markovic. I ask Minister Ruzic if he wants a word? (No) I am concluding a principled search on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Capital Act. I would like to inform you that we will continue our work tomorrow, May 23, 2019, at 10:00 p.m. I thank Minister Ruzic and his associates and all the MPs for today's work. Thank you. [[session interrupted at 18.55 hours]] Dear Members, we are continuing the work of the 6th session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sittings are attended by 80 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 87 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that at least 84 MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? (Yes) The word has the people's messenger Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go.
