ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60413	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the 16th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 86 MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please Members of Parliament to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 93 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word has the People's Messenger Alexander Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60414	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs have been fighting separatism in Serbia for 20 years now, so above all against separatism at KIM and we see that the government has been taking measures to preserve KIM in Serbia. But on this issue, there is something very important that goes without any reaction from the competent authorities that the president of the Sandzak Democratic Action Party Suleiman Ugljanin very often encourages separatism, called the Republic of Serbia fascistally, tells of some genocide over the Bosniak people that was committed thousands of years ago in the territory of today's Raska area, and for all of it has the support of the ruling party. So, very often he says that even Stefan Nemanja committed genocide, that Serbs are a genocide people, that there has been a huge Serb aggression that no one is talking about in the territory of today's Raska area. So, accordingly, I would like Interior Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic to give us some explanation, why is this allowed in Serbia? When someone says Sandzak is a republic, that Sandzak is part of Serbia because of large-serb aggression, an occupation where genocide was committed in all of this, it commits a criminal act of assault on constitutional order, i.e. High treason. Why does all this go without a reaction and why is Suleiman Ugljanin allowed to do all this? We see that this man and this party have unequivocal SNS support. Not only in the Bosniak National Council where there is an i.e. The council, where there is a coalition between the Democratic Action Party and the regime party Rasim Ljajic, which is a SNS satellite, went with them on the parliamentary vote list. In addition, in a number of municipalities in Serbia and above all in the Raška area, the coalition between the Democratic Action Party Sulejman Ugljanin and SNS in the municipalities of Prepolje, Tutin and Priboj. Recently in this debate, in principle, this week's debate, the deputy president of the SNS parliamentary group was in the middle of speaking with SRS lawmakers about how when coalitions are created then it is understood that some common values of those parties that make up the coalition are accepted. Did the SNS then accept the values held by Suleiman Ugljanin, who declares Serbs fascists, genocides and openly calls for separatism in the Rusk area? Are those the values SNS agreed upon with Suleiman Ugljanin when they made those coalitions? I would like to, given that Nebojsa Stefanovic is the interior minister, to tell us something about it, why does it go unpunished? Is this also how this separatism is supported, and given that separatism in Serbia is our biggest problem, i.e. The problem of preserving Serbia's territorial integrity and sovereignty for 20 years, given the Kosovo and Metohija issue? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60415	Thank you. The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60416	Thank you, dear Vice President Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Alexander Seselj and I, as if we had agreed on the topic we're going to talk about today, we just disagree on one thing, which is that Suleiman Ugljanin, of course, absolutely has no support for the ruling coalition, nor any political party within the ruling coalition for all of his activities and everything he wants to do in the coming time period. I would start with having one, of course, of course so many times I've repeated it here in Parliament, I guess it's the interest of all of us MPs who trust us, to have trust, to have the legitimacy of citizens, to defend and protect the interests of our country, to protect our national and national interests and our territorial integrity and sovereignty of our country. Now on the other hand, we have one highlight of political madness, first of all by the so-called. "Pristinan authorities", but unfortunately one part of the opposition that hasn't been in the O.R. for a long time, the same story as so-called. "Pristinan authorities", we also have this lawsuit of our country abroad by that part of the opposition. Personally, I also think the SPS parliamentary group's view is that this is very harmful to Serbia's interests, especially at a time when key issues are addressed, issues of national and state interest to Serbia. It is tragic that Sulejman Ugljanin, who has actively participated in Serbia's political life from 2000 to 2016, performing significant state functions, and also in the current assembly session, will remind you, his party has a parliamentary mandate, today is talking about what Mr Seselj said, the occupation of Sandzak by Serbia and is seeking to resolve Sandzak's status. To remind us, Mr Ugljanin was a member of the National Assembly in a number of meetings of the National Assembly, a minister in two governments, who advocated the territorial integrity and state integrity of the Republic of Serbia. All the time he was in charge of regional development, from 2008 to 2014, he managed the Office for underdeveloped areas and was a member of the Committee on the Development of the Republic of Serbia, correct me if I am wrong, he said Serbia is our country. I repeat, he said Serbia is our country. Today, it exposes its true face, forgetting that the raska area was the heart of the medieval Serbian state. As last year he called Behjet Pacolli, so-called The foreign minister of the self-proclaimed state of Kosovo, that as deputy prime minister and foreign minister of the Republic of Kosovo attends a session of the National Council of Bosniaks and thus publicly recognises the self-proclaimed state, is now still going into violation of the law and the Constitution of the Serbian state, calling on the international community, which allegedly does not protect Sandzak from Serbia. This way he tries, it's our opinion, to destabilise the situation in the Raski area, inventing alleged problems. We are aware that Mr Ugljanin, who has never asked the Sandzak question at the time of his duties in Serbia, wants media attention now, for the sake of gaining cheap political points and for trying to regain himself in some way on the political scene of Serbia. And if he came back, then he'd probably say again that this is our country, that this is our Serbia. We don't think he should be given too much attention, because he wants it, he wants media attention, he wants sensationalism, but there are some boundaries, you know, that Mr. Ugljanin has long gone over. We ask, and here I agree with Mr. Seselj, should the authorities at last continue to tolerate this kind of behavior, or should it finally be appropriate and the right way to react? Thank you, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60417	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger Tatjan Macura. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60418	Thank you, Chairman. Today I refer my question to Minister of Labour Zoran Djordjevic, and Minister of Finance Sinishi Malo. The question can be summed up in one sentence -- when will these two ministers be moved to respond to the demands of mothers and future mothers who appeal to the amendments to the Law on Financial Support for the Family with Children? The reminders are working, this law came into force on July 1st last year. Since then, almost 15 months have passed and we have not received a single amendment and addition of the Law in the assembly procedure, although they have been on several occasions by the resolute minister, so Minister Djordjevic, and by the government and other certain ministers, have been announced. The first announcement was in September of last year, when a large event was held with about a thousand women who went out on the street unhappy with the poor application of the Law on Financial Support for the Family with Children. That's when we got the first announcement from the minister that there would be some changes in this law. Of course, these changes were not in the assembly procedure, so when the budget debate was held, we were forced to try to solve this problem with amendments. That, unfortunately, didn't happen. Therefore, the government of the Republic of Serbia did not adopt amendments proposed by the MP group of the Modern Serbian Party at the time, as regards the allocation of certain amounts of money from the Republic of Serbia's budget, in order to justify the appeals of Serbia's mother who wants to implement changes to the Law on financial support for the family with children. So it was another announcement from the government that was unfortunately not fulfilled. In the next moment, it happened in February, when I and my 30 colleagues proposed to the Constitutional Court to consider our proposal for an assessment of constitutionality. The government then also assured us, particularly Minister Djordjevic, on several occasions and almost all public appearances that there would be changes to the Law on financial support for the family with children. Unfortunately, we did not receive a reply from the Constitutional Court, nor did we receive a proposal to amend and supplement the Law in the congregation procedure. Then some ministers, among them most often Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, as the minister in charge of population policy and demography, spoke of the change and addition of the law by the end of the spring session. The spring session was completed, the law was not found in the congregation procedure. During the entire summer, we received assurances. Among other things, a meeting was held with various associations dealing with issues of parenting, mother and children's rights, in June, with resolution ministers, Minister Zoran Djordjevic and Minister Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, as well as with the Prime Minister. The next meeting was also promised by the end of July this summer, however, the meeting has not been held until today. As the time and start of the autumn session approaches, we from the Government are daily assured that this proposal will be made in the assembly procedure for amending and supplementing the Law. Today is September 12th, no amendments to the Law are proposed in the congregation procedure. Minister Djordjevic is not answering, even less, I can almost argue that Finance Minister Sinisa Mali is not at all pleading on this issue, except that the other day we had the opportunity to hear from him that the biggest increase in earnings in history would occur. So this seems to me to be the biggest increase in profit, historicalally, by depriving all social benefits at the state level. I'll repeat the question. So I refer the question to Minister Zoran Djordjevic and Ministers Sinishi Malo and expect them to respond at the earliest possible time - when will they meet the demands of mothers and future mothers and send a proposal to amend and supplement the Law in the assembly procedure? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60419	Thank you. Do any of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60420	Thank you. It is very relevant, and I am joining these voices that we have heard earlier to call for responsibility, or that at least a serious state authority be declared for irresponsible statements by some politicians, individuals, some who were even ministers in the government of this country and MPs of this Assembly, which for some reasons, I suppose, for collecting political points, give more and more irresponsibly, and I would say more and more flammable statements, which are directly against and intruding into the constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia. In that sense, I agree and join what my colleague George and some other MPs have said. However, and this is my real question, which goes to the address of the Prime Minister, the President of the Republic and the Foreign Minister, as I said, but the trouble is that even the highest current representatives of this country very often make statements that, unfortunately, by the consequences and implications are not far from what these days and more, Suleiman Ugljanin says. In other words, from the highest place in this country, by the President of the Republic, we have been able to hear, several days ago, during talks with US senators, how, I quote, "Serbia cannot accept Kosovo's independence", along with a note: "if there is no compromise solution". On the one hand, it is quite all right and it is appropriate to push Serbia's political summit to seek a compromise solution to the painful and biggest state problem this country has, which is the problem of Kosovo and Metohija. On the other hand, such a statement, and not from someone, I say, journalists, columnists, and even MPs, although they all would, not to say that we would all have to take care of what we say, but they all have more rights than the head of state, which symbolizes both the constitutional order and the unity of the state, to speak and to speculate that there are obviously some possibilities and some assumptions under which Serbia could recognise Kosovo's independence. It's not a measles regiment. It's happened more than once, we've been able to hear more than once, and I thought at first it was some kind of misunderstanding, maybe mistranslated or, simply, slip away from some lapus once, but unfortunately, it's not like that, especially in the face of Western officials and conversators. The head of state repeatedly, I can say here and taxively when it all happened, mentions a compromise under which Serbia could recognise Kosovo's independence, which is absolutely unacceptable. Like I said, by the implications, it's something that gets in the constitutional order, nothing less than what Suleyman Ugljanin said. If we're all for compromise, which means compromise if you're offering within that compromise exactly what the other side is looking for. The other side is now seeking recognition of Kosovo's independence and when you do it in front of intermediaries, if it is some mediators, European and American, who directly support the other side in that matter, therefore, it is as in the negotiations, as in the trade, as in the market. So, you're killing your own price and giving up your positions, mentioning the possibility of giving up what you can't give up and the function you normally perform, which is the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and that's Resolution 1244. Unfortunately, all this time, for the last year, I've very rarely heard the head of state speak and mention Resolution 1244, except when it's on it, or when or when it reminds us, say, Russian ambassador or Russian high officials. Very rarely, on the other hand, the possibility has been heard several times -- we will accept independence if there is a compromise. Not to mention one syntagma that our Western friends often say, which is that they expect, and Mike Pompeo repeated it, and some others, and the State Department, and some other US officials, such as Matthew Palmer, that they expect the negotiations to continue and end with mutual recognition, I stress, by mutual recognition of Serbia and Kosovo, Belgrade and Pristina. First, what does anyone have to confess to Serbia? Serbia has been recognised internationally by the old European state. What is this compromise where we are offered as a solution to the recognition of us by Pristina? It is clear that it is, in fact, the recognition of Kosovo by Serbia and that is what is required, and what I would say is irresponsiblely offered.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60421	Thank you, colleague Vukadinovic. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60422	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've been working for six months on fake cross-border television broadcasts by cable operator SBB, owned by United Group. You're certainly witnessing these days that I was right. The question for the Ministry of Culture and REM – what will be done about the lies that Jugoslav Ćosic made to broadcast in Luxembourg and Slovenia? I've got answers here, and I've got Slovenian, and I've got a Luxembourg regulator, who says it's not true. N1 TV, Nova S, Sports clubs, are registered in Luxembourg, but in Luxembourg they do not broadcast the programme, they do not broadcast. Therefore, it cannot be re-routed from there. Slovenian operator's response is identical. These channels are not licensed in Slovenia and do not broadcast a programme in the field and for the viewers of Slovenia. Re-emissions, then, no. This resulted in a number of criminal acts and acts against the Law on Electronic Media. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected viewers, you are certainly witnessing that the television broadcasts of Serbia-Serb and Luxembourg-Serbia have been realised by television across the border by television, which is issued here for cross-border television, in order to avoid taxes, contributions, taxes, obligations to Sokoje, REM, RATEL, that it has realised transfers to the territory of the Republic of Serbia. It's the opposite of the Electronic Media Act. According to the Law on Electronic Media, the right to transfer sports events from the list of most important events of particular importance under the Law on Electronic Media of the Republic of Serbia can only achieve television with national coverage, so TV covering the entire territory of Serbia and besides cable has free access so that viewers can watch it through transmitters on the antenna. Number two, Nova television violated a 100th member by whom it places itself numerically before national channels, which is a violation of that law. Also, with regard to their representation for fake cross-border television, which serves to pump out revenues, and Jugoslav Cosic himself said it is 500m euros a year on this market. That money is pumped over these fake cross-border channels. False cross-border channels have the right to re-emission, I tell all viewers, not broadcast, but re-emission. Re-emission by law means the takeover, simultaneous broadcasting, the complete unchanged audio-visual services of commercial or other software content, without changing and ending, the introduction of any other content, contributions, headings, advertisements, advertisements and reports. That's what Nova S, like N1 TV, sports clubs don't do. In order for something to be re-routed, it has to be broadcast first in a country in which it is allowed. You certainly watched that transmission. In order for that transmission to be re-routed on foreign television, it had to be the same way in Luxembourg at the same time, with the same channel label being broadcast and then taken over here. I went one step further and checked. The group and Nova S TV, N1, the sports club, which has delayed this, has no right to transfer to Luxembourg. For the Luxembourg market and viewers in Luxembourg, they did not exercise the right to transfer. Now I ask you, then what were they re-emitting in Serbia? They used to put commercials in halftime, against the law. So all the time the transmission went to Serbia's territory alone. This was proved by Nova S, namely N1 and Sport Clubs, that they are false, pirated cross-border channels, which are issued for foreign cross-border television, which are essentially our televisions. This led to a series of criminal acts. I also call on the tax administration to check the business of this entire system "United Group" and "United Media", SBB, N1, Sport clubs, "Adrija News" and other related persons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60423	The word is made by MP Boban Birmancevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60424	Dearly respected fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, I ask my first question to the state authorities, primarily the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Justice, and it is about the great political abuse, i.e. the fact that the arrested director of the "Darekt Media Group" and the two employees of RTS marketing, and that at the same time someone who is the most responsible, who organised the very business of the company, if we have in mind that at the time the mayor of Belgrade and senior official DS was Dragan Gilas, who was just not some big secret, also known to the citizens of Belgrade, and also the citizens of Serbia, sold seconds of advertising space through his firm and as the owner of these companies, are worth millions of dollars. How is it possible that the arrested director of the Darrekt Media and those employed in RTS were not arrested by the organiser and the one who came up with it and just pulled millions of dollars from these jobs? The amount of such amounts may and may be determined, surely, by the State, or by the authorities in charge. Whether and how guilty Dragan Gilas is, interested Serbian citizens, is interested in citizens of Belgrade. I call upon the state authorities to bring Dragan Gilas to justice and to answer for what he is guilty of. It doesn't need to be Sherlock Holmes or Poirot to find out that behind this is Dragan Gilas and that he is directly responsible, that he has dragged both hands to his elbows, but to his shoulders into the budget, or into the pockets of the citizens. For such a thing, the state must find a way to answer. As much as in what amount, let the state authorities decide. The second issue concerns current associate Dragan Djilas, which is the current mayor of Sapca Nebojsa Zelenovic. Here, in this picture is Nebojsa Zelenovic, who is masked into police administration in Luciani. Since it went the way it went, he was in Luciani. Here, along with Bosca Obradic, enters the RTS. Why and when those who break into state institutions break into RTS, that's what they'll be responsible for. If we have a mayor who spent fivem euros from the budget in 2015 and unfortunately has not been arrested, he is allowed to defend himself from freedom and to influence both the court and the prosecution and the experts and witnesses and the process is still under way. In 2016 he bought votes. Proved and confirmed at the Main Public Prosecutor's Office in Capco. Why wasn't he arrested? Why are we in a position to have the same mayor who bought the votes before the elections in 2019, i.e. in spring 2020 and who, according to my knowledge, is ready to buy them again in 2020. Just last week, i.e. a few days ago, he and Bastac spoke a series of lies about state governance, but also Belgrade. He comes to Belgrade exclusively to misinformed the public, to lie and to attack power without any basis. When it comes to the execution of works in the Square in Belgrade and the comparison of works on the Square in Sapac, it is true that this Square in Sapac, which Zelenovic claims was done for 400,000 euros, was supposed to cost 5.2m euros, that a contract was signed with the European Bank for Development in 2013, that the state was supposed to provide, or the European Bank fourm euros, Shabac 1.2m euros and instead of the centre of Sapca, which would cost along with the underground garage, along with the arrangement of the centre, had investments of 5.2m euros. He lied to the citizens again, instead of 5.2m euros, we got a 400,000-euro square and, of course, the underground garage has nothing. We expect the state to just do something against those who break up state institutions and lie to citizens and simply answer for it. How much? Whether he's going to be in a Sabbath, a Mitrovica or a penitentiary, that's what we're interested in, let him determine one of the state authorities, but whoever steals, who takes from citizens and who abuses functions and budgets, whether it's municipal, whether it's urban, whether it's state, doesn't matter, just has to answer for it. We owe it to the citizens, and that's how it's supposed to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60425	Thank you. As no one calls from the president or representatives of the parliamentary groups anymore, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that he has been prevented from attending the session of MP Snezana Petrovic. We continue our work and move on to the search in detail on the 1st item of the agenda – THE PROPOSAL OF THE DUAL MODEL OF STUDY IN SCHOOL. In accordance with Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the sittings are attended by Mladen Sarcevic, Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development with his associates. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science and Technological Development and the Information Society accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is by MP Zoran Despotovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60426	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the proposal for a law on dual model of studies on higher education, the SRS intervened on Article 1 of this proposal, where the word "employors" is replaced by the word "employer", or "employer" replaced by the word "employer" with the reason that the dual model of the study is, in principle, capable but not necessarily. So it's not a must and obligation, but if a higher education institution wants to realize it, it must have a good and reliable employer as a partner, even one. As for dual education, we had something like this before, but at a lower level, i.e. in secondary education, so-called Political education i.e. Education with the work of students' schools in the economy, short-term ŠUP. When it comes to education, that as well as science, one cannot speak only in one way, it is an extremely important link between a post-industrial society that lives in the information environment and that has an impact on modern life and working education of people, as well as a country that is dynamic, means a driving factor in the development of science and education. This proposal for a dual model of higher education studies is in fact a transfer of experience from EU countries, which does not mean that it is applicable to us, and that it will bring good results and a positive effect. When I say this, I mean the experiences of developed economies, for example, such as Germany, France and others, so this model of study is both logical and necessary, but their needs and demands of the labour market. Unfortunately, Serbia is still a country in transition and underdeveloped economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60427	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Risticevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60428	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there's a Russian national message -- the smarter the head, the easier the back. Dual education is especially important for those who learn. It's been a long time since the school of students in the economy. These are now our young pensioners – welders, locksmiths, scrapers, rodents, who are still waiting for their knowledge to pass on. Meanwhile, in the processing industry, new technologies have emerged in society – robotics, ITs, etc. You need mentors, you need teachers. In order for someone to be a teacher, he has to study all the time. Knowledge acquired by dual education would, in my opinion, gain knowledge by co-operation between students and teachers, where they both need to learn. The mentor is a teacher who wants to teach his student well and has to keep on doing the job, to learn. Otherwise, fellow Marinkovic, this knowledge will not be updated and properly transmitted. When a man dies, I always think about the damage that he is, except I feel sorry for a human being, the damage that can be done by the knowledge of him who died. That's a double damage, then. I'm sorry about the deceased, but by the way, and I'm sorry for not passing on the knowledge unless it's really passed on. Imagine the mentor of Yugoslavia from Luxembourg censoric. Imagine a mentor in N1 TV that trains camera installers as the signal breaks down. It says -- re-emitting doesn't exist when the signal is cut in any way. Let's just say, a short commercial. Imagine when their Yugoslavia from Luxembourg, I think it's Yugoslavia from America, but with careful investigation, I found that he is still the Duke of Luxembourg, from that dukedom. Imagine when he conveys the knowledge of deception. How to make money in this country? Sam said – 500m euros, and make losses in companies that are registered here and via fake cross-border TV to take money out, and then Solak drives a 50m-euro "fallon". It's all the result, not just of the fraud, but of the violations of the law, not of the electronic media, tax and other laws, of the Money Laundering Act. That's why I keep calling on the prosecution, long ago, to check it out, and to check it out, gentlemen of the cameraman, that director of your Yugoslavia, Cosic, this yellow Bujket, who is inevitable in combinations with Yugoslavia, Šolak and Gilas. I told you that your salaries are small because they make combinations between "Darrekt Media", you didn't believe, and RTS. To me, your director, gentlemen cameramen and installers employed in RTS, replied that the contract between him and the School's "Darrekt Media" was a business secret. Yes, there is, but it's a business secret. I think it's a sweet secret for both Gilas and Solak and the yellow Buicket. Especially in the transmission of these sports events that RTS doesn't buy, but buys later. So, it's not your salaries small, because the subscription is small, because you get money from the budget, it's public money, you get from citizens, it's given to your director who manages it. You should have higher salaries, and you don't have them because Gilas has 619m euros. That 619m-euro should have been distributed, first of all to you, because you're producing a program, and they're just trading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60429	Thank you, Mr. Ristichevich. According to this amendment, Jelena Zaric Kovacevic also appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60430	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, regardless of the amendment by counterpart Risticevic, the government has refused, i.e. it has given its opinion to refuse, I would like to support the interpretation of the amendments. Actually, I want to support investment in education, because of course it's very important. As we have heard from you, Ministers, in principle debate on this bill, some of the best universities have participated in the drafting of this law. Through this work, they could propose provisions that, on the one hand, would satisfy the constant need to improve our education, but on the other hand, could also affect the meeting of the needs of professors and students. In that sense, I'd like to say that I believe that the profession is satisfied. First of all, in terms of proposing a solution to individual issues that will be regulated by this law. What's important, and what's the point of making these proposals, is that we keep and keep a high-school staff that needs to stay in our country, to work in our country. Many companies will certainly grant scholarships. In this way we will retain young people, and they will be able to apply their knowledge and skills in our country. In this regard, I believe that it is very important to normise, in Article 2(2) of the Law proposal, where, among other things, is said through active teaching at a higher education institution and practical training and work with employers. By having a high-school staff, by having a professional frame, we will actually be able to attract more investors, more new companies, foreign companies, foreign investment will be even bigger and they will come to work in our country and invest. So, we have now actually given ourselves another opportunity to talk about some things that we have previously been unable to talk about by adopting this bill, or by adopting it. If all we know is that we'll be able to talk about the robot factory, that to this extent our education and our economy have developed, we can see that there will be great benefits for our citizens as well. I hope that just as dual education in secondary vocational education has already shown results, that the dual model of higher education will also show results and that we will have opportunities to talk about it in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60431	Thank you, Mrs. Žarić Kovacevic. Now the word has been made by the MP, Mr. Fatmir Hasani. Here you go, Mr. Hasani.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60432	Dear Parliament Speakers, ladies and gentlemen, all these prepared amendments are good, as well as the law on regulation of professions and recognition of professional qualifications, except as an Albanian minority, we ask ourselves which professions should we finish in order to get a job in state bodies and institutions? For three and a half years, we have been together in a parliamentary club with the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians, so far we have failed to solve any of the life problems of Albanians. This is where the law on dual education is passed, and so far no new textbook has been provided for students attending classes in Albanian. The post of an educational inspector with knowledge of Albanian language in the school administration in Leskovac is not filled. 18 workers were admitted on the newly opened payment ramp in Bujanovac – Center, and no Albanian was admitted. So we have no way left, except to wait for the realisation of our demands when a new government is formed in Kosovo, where reciprocal measures will be applied between the Serb list in Kosovo and the Albanian minority in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60433	Thank you, Mr. Hasani. The word has a minister, Mr. Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60434	Thank you. I think that the MP should say that he was present with me in Bujanovac when all the representatives of the EU, the OSCE and other bodies and ministers of Albania were present at my insistence. The issue of textbooks for Albanian students is hampered by the National Council of the National Minority of Albanians. It's a scream mark. So it's been done for months on the Serbian side. The procedure is clearly described by law. They were supposed to provide translators and translation for that part, and the promises are help from Albania, but it's very nice to say they haven't been resolved. When we sent an e-mail to 63 addresses a month ago, they only did it. In April we were, at the end of April I was there on the spot. I ask myself and you, and I ask you there in Bujanovac, I ask in Brussels, I ask in Belgrade at a conference – what are the rights of Serbian children in northern Albania? This doesn't say this, like a man of politics, because I'm not. I speak as a professor, as a patriot, and I insist on this question. The approximation of Albania's EU and Chapter 23 24, as well as Northern Macedonia, in which I was last week to visit Serbian children and open a class of Serbian school in Skopje, where we will deal much more actively than we are now, will force those countries around to reach at least part of the standards Serbia has reached and gives to all. There are 27 national minority councils in Serbia. Serbia has formed a body called the Centre for Low Tire textbooks by amending the Law on textbooks. So no matter how many students are in any language, national bodies are required to prepare material. We're giving them help, I've even hired the Belgrade Philology College and the Albalogy Department to speed up so that all these children have that right, I've arranged things with Minister Shehini, but I'm waiting for them to do something. Ask all other minorities in Serbia, everyone else has solved it. And here the door is open, it'll be settled within a month, two, three days, but I will insist on this always and in public, bilateral meetings. This is often a question that all Western ambassadors ask me, and I answer them just as much as you do.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60435	Thank you, Minister Sarčević. The word is by amendment, Mr. Djordje Milicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60436	I thank Vice President Marinkovic. Before I move on to Article 2 of the amendment, which my colleague Risticevic has submitted to Article 2. Mr. Minister has asked a very good question and we cannot get an answer to that question – what rights do children have in northern Albania, and I am only supplementing it – what rights do Serbian children have in Presevo and Bujanovac? It is very good, Mr. Minister, that you have a constructive approach and that Serbia still wants to build good neighbourly relations regardless of the lack of understanding of others. As for Articles 2 and 2 of the amendment submitted by counterpart Risticevic to Article 2 he is of a technical nature, but he is meaningful and I think you should consider his acceptance. I'll vote for that amendment myself. As far as the questions asked by the explaining amendment are concerned, they are fully justified and of course deserve an answer. I'll use, of course, the time of the president of the parliamentary group, to let you know, the chairman. Since someone is before the start of the debate, Mr. Minister said that you are one of the ministers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia who is very often in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and we welcome that. It means that the legislative activity that is aimed at children, which is aimed at basic, high, middle education is one of the key objectives and that you are very good at it. You have, of course, the commendation of the SPS parliamentary group. We want to look back once again in a few sentences, because there is no point in not repeating it when it comes to the positive one, and it is specifically a legislative proposal that we are talking about today. Well, through that, of course, I'm going to go through Article 2 and some other members, because I'm not going to use time later during the debate. First of all, as we have said, we believe that by adopting this law, we are, therefore, promoting a system of higher education that enables its further successful reform with a goal, first and foremost, one - to bring high education into line with the needs of the market, first and foremost with the needs of the economy; under two - increasing practical competences and abilities for most people who finish high schools and colleges. The essence of the legal solutions contained in this law, which is in line with the government strategy of the Republic of Serbia on higher education, whose primary goal is education for the 21st century. The specificity of this law is that it is realised in a partner relationship in three subjects and that of high school institutions, employers and students. The partnership relationship of all three entities creates conditions that existing objectives, objectives that are defined and achieved. The goals can be achieved, because each partner, as we can say, can benefit from their application. For example, higher education institutions can obtain new authentic study programmes or improve existing study programmes. In addition to the general knowledge of this model of studies, students will be able to provide practical knowledge and skills necessary for their profession, and from the relationship with the employers of the higher education institution will provide information about things in the real sector, above all I think about the real sector of the economy. The employers will establish good co-operation with universities and will have insight into university study programmes, will be able to influence them, and will gain insight into the potential and ability of students and their companies where they realize this type of study. Students studying according to this model will gain greater competences in our opinion that relate primarily to professionalism, which gives students the opportunity to work where they are currently maintaining practice and above all will increase professional competence, as the learning model predicts, as has already been said many times, by realising 50% of the general knowledge and 50% of practical knowledge and skills which is a major twist I would say in the study. When we observe specific members, then a member and the 2nd member, Mr Risticevic spoke of, but also of Article 3. The law sets goals, let's say, a dual model of study that I've already talked about, which in a good way contributes to solving some important issues that allow the objectives set to be achieved by this law and achieved. We know that the process of accreditation of study programmes is neither easy, very complex, complex and long, and Article 5 of this law allows this model of study to be accredited as an independent study programme or as one of the models within the existing study programmes. It is also positive that under this law a higher education institution can apply for consent to organise models under accredited study programmes. For its realization according to this model, and it is also positive that consent can be brought within a relatively short period, because I am a brief reminder of how long the accreditation process itself takes. For example, Article 6, the same important member, is important because it allows relationships in the range of classes, active teaching and learning through the work of employers where active teaching must be represented for 450 hours a year and learning through 450 hours a year, which is a major twist in the acquisition of practical skills, but which is a major shift in acquisition and general knowledge. Obligations of higher education institutions and employers are determined by a contract that defines the responsibility of the realization of this study model. The essence of the legal solutions of this model is that this form of study is not mandatory, but is organised when the higher education institution and employers have an interest in organising such a study and in this sense the employer is obliged to meet the appropriate conditions for learning through this and this work. These conditions relate to the type of work that enables the implementation of the study programme, the corresponding number of mentors that will work with students, the appropriate space, resources, equipment, and then the protection of other students' rights to learn from the employer. It's an important member of the 20th. A law that defines the form of a learning contract through work, and is concluded by an employer and student, and regulates mutual rights and obligations, and in particular I would highlight the material effect, which is defined by Articles 31 and 32. These solutions allow students, who learn through work, to make compensations ranging from 30 to 70% of the basic income of the employee working on these jobs. Material compensation is, I would point out, also an important factor that increases the motivation and responsibility of students for successful studies in this model. In the end, it really is a good reform law, which improves the system of higher education in our country, increases primarily the professional competence of young people who finish colleges and train them for successful work, easier employment in their or their professions, but also the continuation of constant training and expression of the skills of young people who study in this model or opted to study in this model. The application of this law is quite complex and it is best to implement it through positive examples in certain business areas, such as information technologies, in which they will be implemented. Then, the responsibility of universities and employers who have an interest in this type of study. We are sure that the practice will also open up some other issues that will allow this concept to further improve and improve. It is important now to start a modern approach on education which, we are fully convinced, consistent with the legislative activities that your ministry contributes, will constantly improve and improve in the coming period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60437	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. Now the word has a doctor. Mihailo Jokic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60438	Gentlemen, I would like to remind you of what I have already spoken several times in the congregation. Our primary task is to move from GDP to gross national product, because the gross national product shows the criteria and development and progress and development of a country. To tell me and to have that parameter, the gross national product, and not the gross domestic product you're being imposed on, we need to have capable people who won't just be able to work with others, what they talk about all the time, but to create domestic businesses. This Serbia cannot step into Europe, it cannot make progress unless it has people who will create their own businesses, that we have domestic enterprises here in Serbia, where everything produced in the company will remain in Serbia. Because what foreign companies produce in Serbia, part of that product, is part of that income leaving Serbia, and it is entering the GDP. That's why I'm in favour of gross national income. But in order to get to that point, we need to have people able to create, manage, organize these companies. I think dual education, as it's supposed to be, will work it out. Here is the primary goal and the primary goal is to create an expert who will be able to do so. Everything else is marginal and everything around the other parameters we can make arrangements, but we have to go and we have to submit everything to this basic goal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60439	Thank you, Dr. Yokic. Now the word is Dr Branimir Rancic. Here you go, Dr. Rancic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60440	Thank you. Dear Ministers Sarčević, a respected guest from the ministry, respected Members of the People's Parliament, starts any serious reform of education with a reform of secondary education, and then higher education, in order to focus more on competitiveness, orientation towards final results and innovation. President Aleksandar Vukic once said – any innovative knowledge should be transformed into innovative products. To remind me, he spoke of dual education by President Aleksandar Vukic as prime minister, particularly on 9 August 2016, when he submitted the exposés of the Government of the Republic of Serbia programme in this high house. He said on that occasion, quote: "In the context of the development of new integrated teaching programmes in vocational education, an emphasis will be placed on the development of entrepreneurial skills and practical applied skills. If there is no experience in practice, a young man finds it difficult to decide to start a business of his own. Only 3% to 5% of young people will start their own jobs if they have not gained their work experience during their education, but in those environments where they have gained this experience, 10% to 15% of young people who have completed their education start their own business. This tendency to entrepreneurship development develops exactly who? It's a dual model of education. On the dual model of education and its advantages, foreign investors, friends and colleagues from Switzerland, Germany and Austria, countries that are among the largest donors to Serbian society and businesses and which are the largest investors in Serbia. The Republic of Serbia has started introducing a dual education model as a way of harmonising the education system with the demand for human resources, because practice has shown that in countries that have dual education, the youth unemployment rate is generally less than 10%." So now we're about 10% unemployed, and with dual education, that rate can fall below 10%. It was the Prime Minister's final quote, then Prime Minister Alexander Vukic. The adoption of a double model law would create an appropriate framework to define the content and way of achieving a dual model of study. In this way, the goal of dual education would be to bridge between theoretical and practical knowledge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60441	Thank you, Dr. Rancic. The word now has a folk MP, Serbia's Filipovic. Here you go, Mr. Filipovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60442	Thank you. Chairman, Mr. Marinkovic. Dear ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen of the people, citizens of Serbia who follow the transfer of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, have repeatedly asked us questions about how national minorities are in Serbia, especially that Albanian minority. And I ask the question – and how is the Serbian children south of Ibra? What rights do Serbian children in Kosovo and Metohija have in the Serbian southern province? What rights do our citizens who live in Kosovo and Metohija have, how are they there? They said some - reciprocity. But reciprocity would mean that someone, God forbid, is chasing members of the ethnic Albanian minority in Serbia and banishing them and doing what they do. Is that what this reciprocity means? No, I don't. As long as the SNS is in power and President Aleksandar Vukic, we will fight for all national minorities in Serbia to have at least as many rights as they now have and to have even greater rights than they have. There is no country in Europe where national minorities are so respected and have as many rights as it is in the Republic of Serbia and we are proud of that. We're proud of it, because we're toleranced people, toleranceous people. I'll tell you, one study conducted internationally, Serbia is in the last place when it comes to racial insults, national and each other, which means that we are one of the most tolerated nations in the world. We are asked the question of what kind of rights or do not have some rights or when it will work to increase the rights of certain national minorities in Serbia, it is a shame to say in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, everyone has the right to fight for their people and that's what's on that side just one little positive side of the whole story. Everything else does not go to the honour of those who speak of the state they live in, the state that has given them everything, and among other things I have to say that – speaking in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia about Kosovo in such a way that it sounds like something independent, Kosovo and Metohija is an integral part of the Republic of Serbia and it will remain that way. Let everyone else just dream of an independent Kosovo. Kosovo is Serbia and we are putting an end to this topic in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia. When it comes to dual education, I can say, as someone who often talks to our citizens, especially young people, the problem, I would say, until a few years ago, was most often that our young people finished high school or university with excellent theoretical knowledge, however, with a lack of practical knowledge. One part of the young people liked to say when they finished their studies or high school – here, I finished, there I knew everything, I had good grades, but when it comes to practice, I can't get along very well, I can't boast that I had a practical part during my schooling. It's good in dual education, it's given results when it comes to secondary education, and I'm sure our colleges will also give good results in that case in higher education. If our people were educated, there is no dilemma, because there would be no new 120 factories in Serbia and there would be no such investment in the Republic of Serbia. If our country were unstable, there would be no such investment coming to the Republic of Serbia. So we are sure that Serbia is on the right track, we are sure that Aleksandar Vukic is leading the right path, and we are sure that there will be even more educated young people in Serbia in the coming period. This is the right way for these young people to help, we need to work to help them stay in Serbia, to have places to work, not to work for small salaries, but to work for increasing salaries year by year, and that is the result of good, stable, strong, firm, determined and responsible policies and Alexander Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the SNS, which is the headquarters of that policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60443	Thank you, Mr. Filipovic. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60444	The Honorable Chairman, same after the amendment. Like my colleagues who spoke before me, I support the amendment of my colleague Risticevic. In one speech, when we were talking about the law, I mean the Law on Dual Education, Article 2, which we're talking about right now, what's very important to us. As far as this law is concerned, I'm sure we'll pass the Dual Education Act for Higher Education. It is also very important, since in the previous period we spoke and are working on investing in agriculture, investing in new cooperatives, in cooperatives, we are witnessing that a large number of cooperatives are open. I expect that in the coming period we will have the opportunity, since these are large funds allocated to the cooperative programme, that these cooperatives will need to be taken by students studying agricultural sciences. That under these cooperatives, students studying agricultural sciences will need to be taken. In particular, whether it's veterinary, whether it's livestock, whether it's plant protection, whether it's anything about agriculture, agro-economy in agriculture, that these young experts, when we adopt this law and those cooperatives that are newly formed, which are working on programmes around agriculture, because we are witnessing that without strong agriculture there is no development of our country of Serbia. Through this programme and the possibility that through higher dual education students can join these cooperatives, that together with a programme which, I am sure, will have the opportunity in the coming period to provide more funds for cooperatives, for agriculture, that through this cooperative there is the possibility of perfecting these young students, people, these are future experts, who will certainly give me a better opportunity to develop our agriculture in Serbia. Otherwise, the universities and universities of Nis, the Faculty of Agriculture in Kruševec, which now has a large number of students, has a sufficient number of students who will surely work alone in these fields. We have a High Agricultural School in Prokuplje which is also involved in studying and helping our people, young people to finish these agricultural teachings. These people, these students through the dual education programme, I'm sure they'll join these cooperatives in this cooperative, and it would be good to get into the process in the next period and certain things to speed up this dual education for colleges, to accelerate through funding more funds for cooperatives, to get a cooperative that gets funds. As for the programme, that work, it will be fruit growing, livestocking, dairy or anything else, to co-operate through the programmes given by the state of Serbia. We were saying that through cooperatives, it would be a good opportunity to employ experts, one expert at a time to get a job that we will finance through the budget of the Republic of Serbia, that people who finish agricultural colleges have the opportunity, those students to join in time in cooperative, that through the cooperative programme, with the help of the Republic of Serbia's budget, these people will remain there to work and only by such knowledge will they have the opportunity to succeed both this cooperative and agriculture in our country. At the same time, I think it would be good to work together in the next period and the competent ministry, led by Minister Sarcevic, together with the National Employment Service, to take certain steps to do this work, through the employment programme, to enable these programmes, such as cooperatives, such as technical sciences, colleges, agricultural colleges, to be able to enroll those colleges and through a dual education programme with the support and competent ministry, to be technically done and to assist the National Employment Service. It is one of the ways to involve these young students, who are tomorrow future experts, to involve themselves in staying in those fields, in our cooperatives, in these municipalities, and in this way to make our desire for people to live, to work and to develop our agriculture, to develop, in the most part southeast of Serbia, because I always said that southeast Serbia, where we should invest much more, that more should be done to bring these investors, but through the cooperative programme we must also give support to young people future experts, and now to students that they can have these cooperatives, and they certainly need to have the opportunity to provide these students through dual education tomorrow safe jobs. Once again, I will support my colleague Risticevic's amendment and I think we must once again put an end to certain things. Yes, agriculture is the most important thing for our country, Serbia, but on the other hand, a colleague who spoke about the problems of the national minorities here in Serbia, Albanians, I don't think that's appropriate. I think that everyone here who is here and in Serbia needs October 6th in the elections in Kosovo to support our Serb list and that our people down in Kosovo have the opportunity to represent all of us for the needs that concern them. Once again, thanks to the well-respected ministers, this is a good thing, dual education is a good thing and that we look together through the National Employment Service programme, through the cooperative programme, to encourage future experts, who write down agricultural sciences that they can remain there through dual education to work and thus encourage our development of agriculture.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60445	Thank you, Mr. Miletic. He has a word, Sonja Vlahovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60446	Thank you, Your Honor. After high school we also introduce dual education in colleges, this will also allow us to propose a law on dual model of higher education studies, that students acquire knowledge through learning and working in companies. This will also bring a number of benefits to higher education institutions, employers, and most importantly for students. The relevance of higher education is increasing, the employment of finished students is increasing. Students who opted for such a type of study can count on very high company support with a good contract and guaranteed work. This is the reform direction of those branches of the economy that certainly retain young people in our country, a good signal of companies that have developmental direction and research laboratories in Serbia. As I said, we started with dual education in high schools, which was very good in practice and through specialized schools in high school and IT sector, so on for school 2019/20. A year has been planned for 50 specialized IT departments in high schools in Serbia. We started with a very small number and it's growing more and more. As for increasing the number of IT departments and increasing quotas for students to study IT in colleges, a new modern technology society is being built among other things. As I said, yes, you yourself said that investment in education is among the priorities of our government, so is our President Aleksandar Vukic, and of course it is the gratitude of your resolute ministry because the investment in young people is for Serbia's sustainable future. We need to teach kids to think, to think creatively, to create new ideas and values, and we create an education system on these grounds. As for investment in education, there is a priority, and the city of Belgrade has invested a very large amount in this year, about 800 million dinars are investments in education and the value of the work that are under way, and this is what I'm talking about reconstructions of schools that haven't been renovated for years. The biggest investment is building a primary school in Leštane, which is 545 million dinars, then OS "King Petar II" on Vratar, where the reconstruction is in the final phase for which about 30 million dinars have been allocated. The construction of the "Sava Marjanović" school in Sopot, worth about 37 million dinars, as well as the "Vladimir Rolovic" OS, is expected to be the largest investment worth about 60 million dinars. Dual education is the most important topic for the future. We say, as we study, we have to work. And that's actually the connection between the education system and the economy itself, which is why we need investment, which is why the government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as President Aleksandar Vukic, always gives it an accent. We know for ourselves how many new factories have been opened lately, which are foreign investors, as well as our own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60447	Thank you. The word has a professor, Dr. Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60448	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Marinkovic, the esteemed Mr. Ministers with fellows, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, is the very government of the Republic of Serbia, has set the task, among other things, in the framework of the 21st century Education Project. It is enough to give the information, Minister Sarcevic knows very well because he is the contractor of the programme with his associates, to mention 7,400 students are already in the process of dual education and this shift is moving forward. Dear People's MPs, this existing law, already existing, provided a legal basis for improving co-operation with Articles 39, 60, 96 and, on the other hand, between the economy on the one hand and the university on the other. The already in force Higher Education Act has enabled the institutionalisation of co-operation between the economy on the one hand and higher education institutions on the other hand, that is, how our philosophers would say between the world of work and the world of learning. However, in the case of dual education and dual model of study, practical training, work or practice in the employer are part of the study programme, which means studying in two different places, and that is what is very important, as well as higher education institutions and companies, i.e. companies. Studying with work involves three groups of participants: students, higher education institutions and employers. That's what we talked about earlier. But let me underline who benefits from dual education. First, higher education institutions, second employers, third students, fourth Chamber of Commerce and fifth countries. Why the state? Because it will contribute to the accelerated process of modernising the Republic of Serbia by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Minister, and the Ministry of Education, whose head you are at, the largest number of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the largest number of honourable MPs in this high house, and the engine of accelerated modernisation is the President of the Republic, Mr. Alexander Vukic. Dear ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, it is very important who works with our students, it has always been important. I've been objected these days that I insulted Mr. Jovo Bakic. For the third time, docent Dr Jovo Bakic, believe it or not, check it out anyway, gave the student a master at the Faculty of Philosophy in Belgrade a theme, quote - The role of "Pink" and "Hepi" in the creation and reproduction of the cult of the leader and the analysis of the host content of Aleksandr Vukic in the shows "Tough Word" and "Cirilica", finished quote. It is the same, ladies and gentlemen, as if I were to give my student the theme "The Role of the Faculty of Philosophy in Belgrade, in the creation and reproduction of cults of ignorance, intellectual proscration and diletantism, the case for the third time by Professor Dr Jovo Bakic". I'm asking my fellow professors, is this a policy mix-up in class? Secondly, I ask my fellow professors which sociological, or scientific sources did you recommend to your student? Dr. Jovo Bakic, for the third time, the doctor, is 17. 1. In 2014, I quote, "Alexander Vukic is an excavator, Angela Merkel," finished a quote. Your Honor, I got a call from a reporter yesterday, here you go, so check it out, ask him, not me. Here's a transmission, because I've talked about it many times in this high house, and you gentlemen journalists are sleeping in a delayed transmission. It's like I said - Dr., for the third time, Professor Jovo Bakic is the most common piece of shit Bill Clinton, Dragan Gilas and Vuk Jeremic, finished quote. Now, I've got to stop here for a while. Dr Jovo Bakic said that Aleksandar Vukic is an exterminator. If he was referring to the servant, the squire means the servant. Bratoljub Klajic, Great Dictionary of Foreign Words Zagreb, 1968, page 579. And this piece of shit, the Dictionary of Serbian Talks in Vojvodina, an updated edition in four volumes of the Mother of Serbs, Professor Dr Dragoljub Petrovic and two magistrates, means an unreliable man. Whether Jovo Bakić is a reliable or unreliable man, judge you, respected professors who are his associates. I don't want to talk about how many parties he's changed. Let's move forward, Dr. Jovo Bakic, for the third time in June 2019, called for a break in RTS long pipes, quote: "Be careful, they had long pipes, so if you point there, what will you do without long pipes? You go there, then you point a long pipe in your head and you say – read the prepared text, we have just taken over. Otherwise, if you don't have long pipes, but it goes into RTS, you didn't do anything and you didn't connect the leading politicians. “, ” finished the quote. Ladies and gentlemen of the university professors, you know where he said this so you didn't speak to me. Your list, 13. The 06th Lord, and you see which, because this is your list, in 2019, for the third time, docent Dr Jovo Bakic threatens force, so he says, quote: "Without force, this power will not go away, it will not because it is a mob. “ A 13 - year - old finished quote. 06. In 2019, sir, your list of gentlemen from the Dossow benches. Dr, for the third time, the doctor is now an emergency professor with no reference, 13. 06th and 25th. 05. In 2019, he said that the Serbian parliament is a barn, and MPs are what is in the barn, that is understood. So he says, I quote, "They made a barn out of parliament. It's a barn. It's not MPs. Their intellectual level is zero. I'd like to chase them down the streets. “, ” finished the quote. Gentlemen, you who support have the right to democratically support Mr Jovo Bakic. Whether he said it or not, ask him, and don't ask me. Dr., for the third time, Professor Jovo Bakic daily, without any shame, without any shame, mud from the president of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Aleksandr Vukic. That's 19. Three. In 2019, he gave an awful lie. I quote, "Vucic has friends who trade drugs and he's setting them up for state affairs." Did Honorable counterpart Bakic ever say that about the Cypriot terrorists? For the third time, docent Jovo Bakic is every day humiliating women. He's 30. Three. In 2008, his list, not mine, quotes: "The problems facing the union are feminisation". Is it true, gentlemen, fellow professors, or not? For the third time, Doctor Jovo Bakic called for armed forces and blood spills. He said, "The armed force is the only way to change power, and the key question is to make as little blood as possible." Is it true, gentlemen professors, or not? Besides the others, his Time List, 18. 07th of January 2019. Gentlemen of the press, see if he said it or not, you have other papers. The doctor for the third time, Professor Jovo Bakic, one of the protest participants, called on the comrades from the street to occupy the RTS building with long pipes, and this time in the "Istout of the Week" goes on, and said, "The victory of the opposition will be when the representatives of the authorities swim across the Danube and Sava." I didn't say that, my fellow professors. You know a very good methodology for scientific work. That's our doctor, the Honorable Doctor, Granny said. On the stands, 19. On the 08th of May 2019, he said, "The victory would be if they were seen swimming around Savi and Dunawa." Dragan Gilas was also on the stands. I have to say, he was very slightly fenced by that statement and I think he left the rally. DOS also hired Goran Markovic. He's four. Seventy-seven. In 2019, he said that, quote: "Alexander Vukic is a primitive figure and the crowd is its natural environment". Dear Mrs. Srbanovic, I didn't say that. Maybe I'm deaf, maybe I'm crazy, maybe I'm at some university you're belittling, but ask him if he said it. You know very well that it is. Next, 13. Eight. In 2019, he said, "Our authority is a terrorist and the election is organised by a group of bandits". Well, I'm not, gentlemen of the People's People's Parliament, you're not against me, you know why you're not here, when we brought this up, and I say it very often, you run away. I have to look back here at Mr. Stefanovic Bork. He's calling me. That guy used to come here for coffee. He came up to me, here, if he has the courage to say, "Professor, I'm not that valuable," you'll be competing with me at this age, and those who say I'm old are you, gentlemen of the benches. Let him compete with me up these stairs, 62, to run them out every morning. I ask him if he's ever come to this high house before me? Did he ever come out after me? I ask him was it ever that I didn't teach the students? By 11:00 in this high house, I'll be at night, 12 o'clock on the bus, at 6:00 in Kosovo Mitrovica. The students know I'll be here two hours early. The professors know I come like that. I have to say that even once the dean organized my duty and wanted to catch me on the bridge and we arrived at 11pm, I say to you doctors - we're on duty, he says - you're not. We go to college, get on duty, look for it. You won't catch me doing my job. And you gentlemen, professors, you're going to have to work a little more, along with me and compete. Let's move on. About the other professors, I said all the data, too. Those who lie about me calling for some kind of murder, the well-respected professor of Srbanovic, are not true. Let them look at the Penal Code, Article 309. Position 1, as it is, and we can go to 321, so when someone says Kosovo and Metohija, they should also give up Republika Srpska, what does that mean? And they object to me for the Book of Milosh. Let them see what happened back then. I don't call for murder, lawyers and lawyers know it very well, especially Mrs. Stojanovic. Now let me just say, as far as science is concerned, she's made a point that I'm not a scientist. Dear Mrs Stojanovic, I've looked at Thompson's list, Dubravka Stojanović equals zero. And I don't like to talk about myself, and I don't need anyone to defend me. I'll defend myself. He didn't defend me in harder courts than anyone. I defended myself. Dear Mrs Stojanović, I say, I am reluctant to speak of myself, in my textbooks it is three countries, one is a member of the European Union, an Implementing Plan and a programme, a mandatory literature, so try to see where, not to quote you. Furthermore, I am not going to quote my textbook "Auxiliary Historical Sciences" and my colleagues, Shekularac, but, here, from another state of "Auxiliary History Science" by Azem Kozar from Serbia, Dr Ivan Balta is not from Serbia. Take it easy, now we're gonna go in a row. Dear People's MPs, fellow professors, Latin Paleography, let's go see the literature. So it's not from our country. Under number one, see who is located – Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic, Bozidar Šekularac, just "Helpful historical sciences", Pristina, 1997. I'm happy to have worked at that university, and you, Mrs. Srbanovic, keep making fun of your fellow professors and that university. Let's move on. The same textbook "Slavenska paleography", which colleagues know very well, professors, literature Stjepan Antoljak, "Auxiliary History Sciences", 1971, Marko Atlagic, Bozidar Šekularac, "Auxiliary History Sciences", Pristina, 1997. Dear colleagues, one in ten million, you say you're going into politics? Go to political parties, cross scientific facts here, if you are in politics, and in Science magazine, Thompson's list, don't be angry with me, two with me, and Dubravka Stojanović with zero. I am a lucky man to have contributed at least a little to this state of Serbia on that prestigious list and so on. Let's move on. So now we're going to go to other actions. Philigranology, I think she's a colleague of the professor and she knows what it is. In the first place, therefore, in the second country my name is the same, and on the second, Miroslava Grosdanović Pajic, the oldest watermark paper in Serbian manuscripts, Belgrade in 1985, the famous Vladimir Mosin, "The Water Signs" and our esteemed fellow at the National Library, genius Radomir Stankovic, "The Dated Water Signs", where Aleksandar Moshi left a collection of philigranologists. Did you go in there, fellow professors? Well, they'd write a textbook like this. Of course not. Let's move on. Epigraphics, our Latinis know what epigraphics is, and now we're going to see this quote next. So, in epigraphics, it's the same situation. In diplomacy, it's not diplomacy, it's diplomacy, it's science about charters. Those correspondence these days in the press, precisely in this textbook in another country, are the charters in Serbian, or Cyrillic paleography, Latin. What, you're not, fellow professors except at Philology and something in Philosophy, I see that the younger generation is working, who told you not to do it? So it's the same situation with diplomacy, literature, embarrassing to tell me, my name and colleagues, etc. Let's move on. So it's not our country's textbook, and then you answer why it's not. Chronology, but historical chronology, here's my name and honorary colleague, and there's little of a fellow professor from the Faculty of Philosophy. Heraldica. What am I gonna say? In the first place my name, then Stjepan Antoljak, then Angelic still, not to mention, I didn't write this, but the second one. Genetics. So the same situation in genealogy. Meteorology. Meteorology, not for calculating this time, but in historical science, etc., so there's my name. I'm more uncomfortable, there's more to talk about. Dear colleague Stojanovic, that's how it would be. Dear colleague Stojanovic, I have no hatred, all the honourable MPs and your colleagues from the opposition benches know it. Out of me comes love for a man, for a worker. Now, the implementation program at one of the European universities, I learned yesterday, the mandatory literature, don't be angry with me here, because here I am modest, well, I didn't want to say so, and if I had said more about the Yugoslavia Encyclopedia, which I took out the day after 23, well, they would have eaten me. I, I want to compete in this high house on arrival, so on facts, etc. Now, as far as other colleagues are concerned, they have complained to me about Honorable MP Nenad Chanka, that I called him "gicoes". What they think, I don't think it's a colleague of Canak's. Gicoje Sebastian is a controversial Romanian businessman, so-called "Gico", who is an MP in Romania's parliament. Check it out, gentlemen, professors. Ceda Jovanovic, I will not, for collegiate reasons, have Chad in eight places, where he said it, but I only recommend him, since he is a smart man, Cedo is a smart man, but let him look at TV HRT "On Sundays at 2", a respected journalist Stankovic, a date that I do not speak other dates with others. My dear colleague, Prof. Dr. Veselinović Janko, is called a "stand-stealer". He stole Milici Badzhi's apartment in Obrovec, Brace Kurjakovic, and founded the association. Thank you, Mr Marinkovic, Maja Gojkovic, and the other presidents, thanks to you and my little bits for putting here after 20 years, the esteemed Miss Milica Bajja from the refugee home has returned to her home. I didn't say that. Do you know who said that? "Free Dalmatia", 11 December 2014 We could do as much as you want Dusan Petrovic's "cow-killer", the professors know it. But let's move on. As far as bibliography is concerned, so I don't go too far, to leave my fellow Members, honourable Members of the People, gentlemen professors, you know where I am when I'm not in high school? You know very well who comes first to some of the scientific institutions and who gets out last. I want us to compete in the work, the order and the love of this country, and you're still declaring Gabriel Principle as a terrorist, not an assassin. I don't raise my students like that. Love for the country is an integral part of Serbian identity, which has kept us, gentlemen professors, you know that well. Look at the 19th-century textbooks, would you like me to quote them to you now, 20, 50, how our greats treated their country? And you call Alexander Wolfie, you know why it's wrong for you? Which he is a reformer and you will never forgive me, gentlemen professors, for quoting him and his exposés in 2014. I call upon you, Professor Veselinović, and the mass of other professors, analyze that exposure which is the greatest. I'm the one who's been talking here for days, check it out, and I've got an honourable MP coming, it seems to me from one of Radulovic's "king of bankruptcy", he's from Nis: "Well, Professor, where did you get it all here? You read? “ Library over, I didn’t go on vacation, he bathed in the sea, and he muddyed me. History puts everything in place between me and him and everyone else. Let me, since I've taken a lot of it, I'll probably get back to you a few more times today, they've objected that I've called some of my fellow traitors. I didn't say that. Do you know who said that? The Wolf of Jeremiah. When? On 30 November 2018, he stated, quote, that Aleksandar Vukic is a traitorous bastard. Isn't that right, Mr. Jeremiah? Of course it is. Vukic is a great Serbian patriot, reformer, Democrats bigger than you can imagine. A large worker, full of energy, would not work against the interests of his country and citizens of the Republic of Serbia. He advocates the pedagogy of peace. You're not comfortable with peace, because that's not how you came to power. I'm propagating a pedagogy of peace with my textbooks. Now to quote to you the great Serbian, and to the world, Nikola Tesla, when he came here in 1892 to teach here to the students, so on June 1st and 20th 1892, I quote: "I am, as you know", telling the students, "and you see and hear, remain a Serb and across the sea where I am being examined, so should you and, by your knowledge and work, raise the glory of the heart in the world," finished the quote. Is that how the lady was respected, Dubravka Stojanović? Massu was a professor of the Faculty of Philosophy and students participated in World War I, she knows it very well, and seven Belgrade University professors gave their lives, 35% of students lost their lives, but there was unity. You know why, gentlemen, professors? You know that very well. Whose 19th - century textbooks were they working on, and what was their study? You know that very well, but if you're interpreting it, that's another thing. Since I've taken quite a while, they're yelling at their colleagues - yet, but I'm going to leave a little bit to my other colleagues. So much for these calls. About every nickname, you don't suspect I'm a bad man. Out of me, love flourishes for every man, no matter what faith or nation. I don't care about that at all. Even in other non - Christian countries, but also in Muslim countries, they quote my literature. What's important, gentlemen professors, is the most beautiful thing in life is being a teacher. Teach the child a number, put a letter in the word, read, write, delete, understand, know, only a small part of what the teacher really is. I don't mean to say what a teacher does because being a teacher isn't a job. Being a teacher is to love, being a teacher is to feel, being a teacher is to be able, being a teacher is simply to be, Mrs. Dubravko Stojanović, I believe you are, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60449	Thank you, Professor Atlagic. Now the word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60450	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister Sarčević and his associates, we expressed our views on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, i.e. I now join those positions. They're familiar to you. What I want to add is the fact that you pointed out that it is difficult to question, which is that by going to Bujanovac and presenting what the Government of the Republic of Serbia is doing, you have proved that Serbia has its sovereignty in all its territory, that all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, regardless of nationality, regardless of religion and whatever other differences, are equal before the Constitution and the law. This equality both before the Constitution and before the law implies that both in Bujanovac and Presevo, which includes part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia, everyone must respect what the government is doing, and also your respective ministry, when it comes to something that has been mentioned here in a very ugly way, and that is supposed to be discrimination against children of Albanian ethnicity. On the contrary, it is neither discrimination nor discrimination that Serbia has ever carried out, nor will it implement it. Serbia is just trying to establish and hold, preserve, nurture, legal order throughout its territory. This consists of the sovereignty of a state, which consists of the sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia. When it comes to the amendment of distinguished counterpart Risticevic, of course we join the amendment, which is that we support it, even though it has an overly technical character, it should also be assessed from one broader angle of observation, which is that dual education implies a kind of complementarity, complementarity of the economy on the one hand, a higher education, or an institution in the area of higher education on the other. One can't do it without the other. It is our great happiness that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has managed to appear, through a kind of investment rebirth of the economy, as something can be considered respectable in the Republic of Serbia, because by strengthening the economy, we allow exactly what is being done in the framework of dual education to be affirmed, at the same time and practically revived. You've recently, distinguished ministers, been to Uzic and have had the opportunity to get acquainted with the resources the Zlatibor County has. You have had the opportunity to see the potential when it comes to higher and higher education in the city, even wider, and in that direction, the town of Užice recognized someone who makes a lot of good for two reasons. The first one is a high school affirmation, a team before several colleges will come to life in Užica soon. One of the colleges is a college of information technology or information technologies. I'm sorry he didn't revive the concept of an integrated university in Uzic. I know that you are a supporter of such an idea, because the more integrated universities we have in Serbia, we will relax certain things that relate to higher education. Unfortunately, on the other hand, there are some of them, to call them, limiting factors, which perhaps, from another aspect of thinking, would stimulate the idea and why not the integrated university in every city. It may not be a bad idea either, but in any case, the concept of the development of higher education in the territory of the Zlatibor County and the town of Užica implies the affirmation of everything that has been done so far to make progress. In Užica there is a Higher School of Professional Studies, there is a Faculty of Teachers, we hope soon to have a faculty of information technologies, so, dear ministers, please consider this as a possibility for a future activity, hopefully, by your Ministry, which will really contribute to what we have been up to for some 10 years now, and this is an integrated university. I think there's a chance. I think that there are conditions for this, both in terms of human resources and in terms of material goods, especially what the law prescribes. What, too, when it comes to you, and without the intention of flattering you, is other facts, which means that you recognize that in Užica dual education can have in a practical sense a very positive effect. The economic resources of the city, which are personified in the form of enterprises such as Impuls EVO, Valjanica Bakra, Purpose Production "First Partizan", are very much meant to be able to really design dual education on the basis of this law, because this will be an incentive for the economy of the town of Užica, and on the other hand, that young people, whom very little remains after completing their studies, will return to their city. I'll remind you that out of the total number of students who leave the town of Užica to colleges, only two to three percent of the total. We have to admit it's devastating. But your efforts and all that you've done so far are encouraging in the sense that this percentage will increase significantly and that we will, through the affirmation of education and education in that city, try and hopefully manage to stop such a negative wave and turn it into its opposite, which means what's positive. Finally, I would like to point out once again that you have done something through this law that not only implies harmonising our legislation with EU legislation, which is, in any case, our obligation, but also something that can be very, very useful for our country, because young people, through practical knowledge, together with those theoretical ones who have at school, will succeed in aphirming, profiling, building as good experts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60451	Thank you. The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60452	Thank you. Just a few sentences. What is very good, the town of Užice has set many things in motion among the first, so dual education in the middle of the minority came first in Užica. What is important is the reform of vocational education, which is one-third of it, essentially, training learning for work or so on. Vet education, yes, they're academia. What is important for the economy and for young people is the whole of life learning, and that percentage of the rest – leaving does not have to be that way. It is important that the economy which enjoys a good end, but it is very important that children and parents have no additional costs when it comes to traveling to large centres. We are now doing a study, which will result in a new education strategy by 2030, science. It's a big deal. So this previous one is near the end and it's been done quite long and thorough, and that's where people from the university participate. The big question is how to arrange future university-academic education, because we have one integrated, we have all the other classical universities, and the size, even of these smaller universities, south of Belgrade, etc., is completely different. The question is for the entire academic community and we're working on it. What is important to the public is that there are certain rules that agree with the EU, and these are different laws. Systemic education laws don't have to do it that way. They need to improve the country in terms of solutions that are recognized for our needs. We were basically also based on the system law on the basics of education and education systems, for high and other laws, on domestic practice, but we were skillfully looking at certain practices of some countries. Switzerland is not an EU member, and it is certainly for example, South Korea is not, so it is not China, so it is not Russia, but it does not mean that we have been working on some elements, copying, but it is important that we coordinate our visions, and then checking with the most successful ones whether we are on the right path, which is the best way, not because we consider ourselves inferior or superior, but rather an objective notion. What is important for Užice, which I liked in my last stay, which is that all these other reform actions that are being done in Užica are again very well understood, and that is the need to move on to one-way work in primary and secondary schools. The pleasures will make an effort, as the city, to go full maltene with the resources of self-government, along with the resources that the state has, means a well-worked network. Some self-government thought they'd lose. On the contrary, Uzice will be a good example, how others will be able to see what has been done, to follow such an example. So hiring people from education, including all the work, is something that is common good energy. We've done enough here. It's a new dorm that has room for a student standard. So, a lot of schools, institutions, sports halls, and I think, at least while I run this resolution ministry, we'll give such self-government every advantage. Because then they'll be able to set some kind of example and others look up to each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60453	Thank you, Minister Sarcevic. The right to replica has Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60454	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Ministers, I thank you for one such approach that the town of Užice truly deserves and I will especially thank you on behalf of all the citizens of the city of Užica and the management of the town of Užica for mentioning something that, for the first time in the then Yugoslavia, has been brought to life, as a threat to dual education, which is the school of students in the economy that has just been the basis of that dual education. It was not until after Užica that other local self-governments affirmed it, or formed one such educational process. I'm glad you recognized all the things Užice has in mind about all those, to call them, material bases and schools, as well as High Business Schools of Professional Studies, including the Faculty of Teachers. What you mentioned when it comes to one-way teaching, there is indeed all the predisposition to start such a thing immediately, i.e. to live and all that, since you are covering, especially the school administration for the territory of the Zlatibor County, makes it practical to do so. My only appeal is to help the school administration and in a professional sense, and in a humane sense, in order to really do what the school administration does in the practical sense to live in the best possible way. Thank you, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60455	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. The word is Studenka Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60456	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, in favour of this debate on the introduction of a dual model of higher education studies, I think the most important goal this law has is training students to work in the area they chose to study. It is a very common case of good students who, according to the classical model of studies, have mastered theoretical knowledge with very high grades, but have not been able to make full use of their knowledge in practice, precisely because of the lack of real working environment and expectations of employers. This law solves this particular problem and provides the opportunity to learn through work, to acquire the skills required in practice, and thus reduces the time of stalking in work when entering a working relationship. That, in my opinion, is a great advantage for the economy that has so far had to allocate large sums of money to training new employees. Any experience gained during the study brings personal development, brings income to students who decide on this model of study and brings the labour market potential employees who are actually qualified for what are the real needs of the market, or potential employers. On top of that, this possibility for students to get a direct contact with those who can offer a work contract is a very good opportunity and should really be used. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60457	Thank you, colleague Kovacevic. The word has a National MP, Zarko Bogatinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60458	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected ministers with associates, a cheap labour force, which in the gleaning tongues so called, are produced in a system of education in which young people are not given a chance to gain the quality of knowledge that is consistent with modern technical and technological development, which young people need to offer better employment. Therefore, the Law on dual education is the biggest step among the laws passed by the Ministry of Education, of course in a positive way, because young people will be able to learn in two places, i.e. that their theoretical knowledge can be functionally, through learning through company work, to check and apply. The quality of their knowledge in this way gives them a chance to get a quick job, as well as to choose conditions for their employment as experts. A serious economy, as the Serbian economy becomes, does not need cheap and unprofessional labour, but rather young, creative, educated, innovative people who will improve the system in Serbia's future. As we know, by opening new companies with modern technologies, Serbia's economy is progressing every day, and this gives young people the opportunity to respond to these challenges to refreshed functional knowledge through a dual education system and make it the same economy in the future sustainable. This law, which improves the part of the system of higher education, has made clear decisions on the rights, obligations and responsibilities of all stakeholders in order to improve the quality of knowledge of our young people, as well as respect for their rights, through the principles and objectives, clearly defined. The young people through this system will no longer passively observe very serious production processes in companies, but will actively participate in learning through their active participation, along with licensed instructors and teachers of practical teaching, through learning and learning their skills. In 21st century companies, it brings smart machines, and young people through this law have the opportunity to use these modern processes, through design and programming, to manage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60459	Thank you. Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 87, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to pass laws on the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The word is made by MP Borisav Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60460	Mr. Vice President, I'm sorry that Vice President Marinkovic left because I'd like him to hear what I'm about to say. Today, after all, we spent a lot of time yesterday talking about things that weren't on the agenda. We did the same thing today. I'd like no one to understand me first, and Mr. Atlagic doesn't get me wrong. I stand behind what Mr Atlagic has criticised today for the third day, but we cannot work as a Assembly in this way, speaking at least here, then, if not constantly, how the Assembly works effectively and so on. I have to say, yesterday afternoon I was tired and I left the session yesterday when Mr. Atlagic spoke. I made it today. Not yesterday, the day before yesterday. I made it today because we're at the beginning of the day. I understand everything we need to say and everything we need to criticise in public and everything that should mean criticism of a particular category in society, but three days repeat the same thing, maltene from word to word, and in doing so, the chairman who he was and today, Mr Marinkovic, does not respond to it at all or preside over any of that, that he does not announce and warn the speakers, any of us, that he has to talk about the subject at all. The second thing, we can't even talk to the public, we can't repeat the same thing for three days thirty-and-a-half minutes without anyone looking back at it. I was thinking today whether I should check in with the Rules of Procedure to get my word right away, so I decided to say it this way anyway, apologized for having to point this out to others, but it bothers me very much. It bothers me like a clip at the assembly's work points and I took the time without being on the subject as well. I would pray that in the future, I would ask you, first of all, that you take care of this and that we really do not allow such things, because we are losing both our reputation and our high institution and as representatives of the people, and so on, when we repeat the same thing for three days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60461	Col. Kovacevic, I understood your discussion as a kind of violation of the Rules of Procedure, and about the discussion of my colleague Atlagic, whom I followed, although I was not in the O.R. at the time. We often ask questions about what is a greater social danger, whether the MPs in their discussions criticise their colleagues, namely on the agenda is a set of laws on higher education and that a colleague of Atlagic criticised his colleagues who are members of the academic community. Of course, we also care about the opinion of the academic community, what we are doing here in the National Assembly, but just because we care about their opinion doesn't mean that they should call for violence and murder, because they primarily raise our young people who have yet to step into life. Such behaviour is extremely inappropriate, and I believe that my colleague Marinkovic did not at any time violate the Rules of Procedure, because atlagic tried to get young people to step into real life, how much they should trust their lecturers who come out of their professional profession and invite them to violence. It's for every conviction, and it takes, as long as any MP wants to repeat, I have nothing against it. The call for violence is for every conviction and in the first place it should be here in the National Assembly and someone's academic title and calling and his scientific achievements cannot justify his calls for violence and bloodshed. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go. (Borisav Kovacevic: I just want to say that I agree with everything he said, I was just talking about the methodology of our work. You were just saying that I didn't mean it, away from it. I agree with everything, but there's no need to exaggerate. )
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60462	Thanks, buddy. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm a bit like the president of the parliamentary group surprised by the discussion of colleagues from the PUPS parliamentary group. That's why I called in my word. I'm a PUPS fellow I can understand a little bit. Neither one of them nor their party president attacks Dragan Djilas, or Bosko Obradovic, or Vuk Jeremic. At the blow of those people who have ruined Serbia and who would like to return to power, do everything they did by 2012, Alexander Vukic and SNS are on the run. As president of the parliamentary group, I am proud of the fact that in our ranks is Professor Marko Atlagic, who struggles tirelessly to prove, to explain to the citizens of Serbia what kind of people it is. Because some people find it hard to listen to Mark Atlagic, I think the reason is because they don't really understand the meaning of the message that Professor Alagic has. Atlagic has been trying for days and months to direct Serbian citizens. He actually quotes statements or what they said in the media of people who consider themselves a Serbian intellectual elite. He quotes Jova Bakic, he quotes Dubravka Stojanovic, he quotes Radet Veljanovski. These are the people who say about us from SNS that we're ignorant, that we're credentials, that we're sandwichers, that we're bots, that we don't know anything, and they're the elite and they know everything. In order for Serbian citizens to understand what kind of man it is, Marko Atlagic is a top historian. One of the best living Serbian historians and those historians who deal with those branches of history that almost nobody deals with. Today, there are few Serbian historians dealing with heraldics, engaged in diplomacy, celebrationism, these auxiliary historical teachings. That's what he does for a professor. Marko Atlagic. Professor Marko Atlagic, I think, is one of the few people in Serbia who knows in detail the complete history of the coat of arms of Serbia, the coat of arms of Croatia, the coat of arms of almost all states in the environment. I'll only give you two examples to see what kind of man it is. Look, these are written by people who are Croats, they are Croatian scientists, not Serbian. Marko Atlagic wrote among others a book called "The coat of arms of nobility in Slavonia from 1,700 to 1918", that I do not read the whole preface written by the famous Croatian historian Barto Zmajic, one of the best Croatian heraldicists. At the end of his preface, Mr. Zmajic says that the work of Marko Atlagic is one reviewed catalogue of Slavonic nobility "two centuries", so we can really welcome the appearance of this book. It will serve excellently as a manual of heraldics of the Slavonian region, leading students and taking art, teachers of primary and secondary schools, as well as all those involved in the history of Slavonia, and the famous, also Croatian historian, so to speak Croatian, and Marko Atlagic is a man who had to leave Croatia because he was minister in the government of Republika Srpska. So, the man felt on his skin what it meant to be a vampire regime that drove him to the "Storm" of 250,000 Serbs, and in this "Storm" came Professor Marko Atlagic to teach at the Faculty of Philosophy in Kosovo Mitrovica. Marko Atlagic taught in Kosovo, Mitrovica, and while in Pristina, NATO bombed us. He did not escape to America, as academic Teodorovic did, he remained in Serbia and missed not a single hour at the Faculty of Philosophy in Pristina, although conditions for teaching were almost impossible. So, this second Croatian historian, says – Atlagic's work, were first gathered, shown in the newest professional literature "Grbs one region of Croatia". Such works should also be done for other regions for the Middle Ages, as well as for the new century. What I also want to say is, I am proud of Mark Atlagic, as I can, as a fellow MP, as a scientist for the fact that his expertise is not even disputed by modern Croatian historians. I have a paper in front of me called "The Bibliography of Heraldic Works", with special revenge on Croatia and BiH. It was written by Tomislav Galovic from the Faculty of Philosophy in Zagreb and Emir Filipovic, from the Faculty of Philosophy, University of Sarajevo. As the most significant works in the field of heraldics, they state, here I will now count you one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, 10, 11, 12 papers of textbooks, studies, monographs and articles by Professor Mark Atlagic. No one has ever written more about this subject, and the Croats themselves admit it. So, it is a work that was published in 2008 and Marko Atlagic experienced being attacked by journalists on TV "N1", laughing at him, thinking they were trying to convince Serbian citizens that Marko Atlagic is someone below intellectual level, so Marko Atlagic has more knowledge than all those who represent themselves with intellectual elite together. Marko Atlagic writes papers today. Marko Atlagic is the only one who has works on the world's most prestigious historical lists and is courageously fighting every day, not for himself, but to explain to Serbian citizens what danger has been overcome over Serbia by those who have systematically ruined it in the worst possible way for 12 years. It is Dragan Djilas, who is Vuk Jeremic, who is Boris Tadic, who is all those who were once in the DS, are now in some other parties, but these are all derivatives, all of which are the remains of the DS that led Serbia, among other things, to the edge of bankruptcy, which have drawn a series of disastrous moves in foreign policy, which have drawn a series of disastrous moves when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija. Marko Atlagic, does not do anything but certainly the days when the Assembly quotes, but literally quotes what this intellectual elite is saying about us. What's he saying about us? That we should be thrown into the Sava and the Danube, that we should break in with long tubes in RTS, that we're idiots, that we're idiots, that we don't know anything, that we're ignorant, that they know everything. I really don't understand some colleagues who belong to the ruling coalition, why it bothers them when Marko Atlagic answers his word. You may not understand everything a man is saying, it may be hard for you to listen to discussions that may not be understandable enough for you, but I think Serbian citizens understand what Marko Atlagic is doing and what the SNS parliamentary group is doing. Alexander Vukitch is the most hit. The other day at the Faculty of Political Sciences, together with you, Mr. Arsic, was Vladimir Orlic, and Vladimir Djukanovic, were also other colleagues, the purpose of all these ideas of how to reform the political system in Serbia actually comes down to one single, how to prevent Aleksandr Vukic and SNS from participating in the elections. That's what they want to know. This second, it's an empty story that doesn't make any sense. All of them are great and electoral conditions and the Law on the Selection of People's MPs and REM, all of which is fine, just don't let Alexander Vukic participate in the elections and everything will be great in Serbia. That's what Marko Atlagic is trying to explain to Serbian citizens. That's what every SNS MP tries to explain to Serbian citizens. As far as I'm concerned, as president of the SNS parliamentary group, I would personally like to have such a bitterness, with such a warmness, with so much energy in the defence of Alexander Vukic, our coalition partners also participate, because they are in the government thanks to the fact that Aleksandar Vucic won the elections in 2012, 2016 and 2017, with all due respect to them, their parties and the presidents of their political parties. But this power stands on one main and basic pillar, that is Alexander Vukic, and the citizens of Serbia know it. That's why those who have gathered in the Alliance for Serbia only hit Alexander Vukic, rarely after someone else. We are obliged as SNS MPs to defend the President of the Republic, to defend, after all, and the president of our party. We're not ashamed to say we're members of the SNS. I don't believe in a democracy where there are no political parties. It was invented by those who do not have political parties, so now they are trying to convince us that a carefree democracy should be introduced into Serbia. Such democracy doesn't exist anywhere in the world. They are trying to make Serbia a major experimental station, Mr. Minister, to perform their political experiments here by people who do not actually have political parties. That we're not lying, the boycott of the election is actually an excuse and a mask to hide that they don't actually have any political organization behind them. To have a party, which we know from the SNS, you have to have local committees, you have to have municipal committees, you have to work with people, you have to have a party infrastructure from Saturday to Kosovo Mitrovica. It's a hell of a job, none of them have it. For free to Dragan Gilasu so many millions, for free to Vuk Jeremic so many millions, they don't have political parties, they don't have membership, for them the people won't vote. Then they remembered -- let's boycott the election, or they remembered -- let's offer Alexander Vukić an ultimatum. I was amazed the other day when I came to the Faculty of Political Sciences, I was welcomed by the draft law on the pre-election government of the Republic of Serbia, the pre-election government of the AP Vojvodina and, imagine, the pre-election bodies of local self-government. I asked these people from NGOs, from "Transparency of Serbia", from Crta, from the Open Society Fund, tell me, here, the super-election government of the Republic of Serbia. Is that real in Germany? Is there in Great Britain? Is there in France, Italy, Spain? Where are these political models? Well, you know there's nowhere to be found, but it would be good if they existed in Serbia. Why would it be good if they existed in Serbia? Well, that Alexander Vukic drags us into government, even though we don't have any support in the electoral body. To sit in the government both Dragan Djilas and Bosko Obradović and Vuk Jeremic and Boris Tadic and Cedomir Jovanovic, who I see now shares the same political ideas as Bosko Obradovic, to introduce all of them to the government, but without a choice. Well, it doesn't exist anywhere in the world, it doesn't exist anywhere. The Serbian Progressive Party, by participating in these round tables, shows our good will to listen to everyone's opinion and everyone's proposal, how to improve our political system, but we are ready to accept only what already exists in developed democracies. Do not make proposals for something that does not exist anywhere, so that Serbia is now the only country in the world that will have a pre-election government or pre-election government of the Vojvodina or pre-election bodies of local self-government. The first thing that's against the constitution, the second thing, is there's no parallel solution to that. Why would Serbia be an experimental stop for Dragan Djilas and Vuk Jeremic and Boris Tadic? We won't let that happen. I'm gonna go back, and I'm gonna end up with that. Well done, Marco. I wish at your age I had so much power and energy to fight for the benefit of Serbian citizens, to fight for the truth and for justice. I know that you also fought in the Croatian Parliament for the rights of the Serbian people, as you are today fighting in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, so that those who almost ruined our Serbia don't return to power in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60463	Right on line, MP Borisav Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60464	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Not my fault, I mean, I caused something that didn't come out of what I said, or I had any intention at all. It's especially difficult to endure after someone has given you a pretty label that you're in a ruling coalition, and you're not standing by it. I thought that it was enough to say at the beginning of my earlier presentation what I said, that everything Mr. Atlagic said was in opposition to those who work towards this country, not to repeat what Mr. Martinovic said, and the other thing, that I didn't need, that I would appreciate each fellow, especially the one who carries and has the calling of professors in any science. I don't need details about the fact that this man would really have a reputation in front of me and that I would appreciate him and appreciate what he's saying. So, Mr. Atlagic, especially when I heard all those details today, I really appreciate it. I'm just asking a question and I agree, what Mr. Martinovic said, that, of course, all means should be fought against by such and similar means that, in this case, let's say, the day before or when they were, they hit directly and groupically on Professor Atlagic. But I'm just saying what I personally think we shouldn't waste, it's not a waste of time, no matter how much it's said about such phenomena, but not to repeat it every day, and in parallel. If you all think you should, here, and I accept, let Mr. Atlagic speak about this subject from now on and until October 1st, I accept. But I think that if we repeat these same things over and over again, the two effects can be, that it's received more, but it can also be caused by counterproducts and people say – so as long as this one is the same, it gets bored with one and the same. So I'm only talking about the measure, but it would have been much better, I'm counting myself here, and more effectively if it hadn't been for Marko Atlagic talking a few days in a row about it, but if he'd said the first day what he meant, and if we had stayed from the assembly, we'd joined him and supported him until the end. I'm also criticizing myself for that, that's what I'm talking about. I don't want to be misunderstood by my beatings or my behavior, or the conduct of the PUPS parliamentary group, or the PUPS in general. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60465	The People's MP Aleksandar Martinovic has the right to reply, followed by Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60466	In 1941, when a famous historian and professor of Belgrade University offered to sign an appeal to the Serbian people, he said to one of his colleagues: "It's easy for you, you play hard, and I teach the students ethics." I'm sorry if I'm going to be a little more open, considering it's a coalition partner. And who's stopping you from defending Alexander Wolfie? Who's bothering you? Unfortunately, except for the SNS MP, I didn't hear anyone else defend Alexander Wolfich. I'm going to say something that may be against me by my party and my president – so your Serbian Government minister is sitting down thanks to Alexander Vukic. Who made the 2016 election on their backs? Alexander Wolfie, and we helped each one in our own way. Then you say – and why is Marko Atlagic answering for a word? The real question is: why N1, why "Today" and why is the media running this guy's 24-hour campaign against Alexander Vukic these days running a campaign against Mark Atlagic? Because they recognized that Marko Atlagic was a man who struggled to tell the people the truth about those that Aleksandar Vukic won in the elections in 2012, 2016, 2017, and who will win again in 2020. Their methodology of work, these media, is very simple, when they notice that someone is struggling hard for the politics of Alexander Vukic and the SNS they put him on the pillar of shame. That's how it happened with Vladimir Orlic, that's how it happened with Djukanovic, that's how it happened with Marijan Risticevic, that's how it happened with me. Now, here's the situation when it comes to Marko Atlagic. As soon as they notice that someone in the Assembly is fighting for Vukic and says openly – I am for Vukic and his politics, immediately becomes ignorant, immediately becomes a cress, immediately becomes a sandwicher, immediately becomes a bot, immediately becomes the worst possible man in the world. Have you ever noticed that "N1" calls these silencers from the National Assembly or from the Serbian Government? Never anyone. Who's on strike? Well, first of all, we who are open to Alexander Wolfie. The easiest thing to say is, I'm with Alexander Vukic, and that's where the whole story ends. Well, defend that Alexander Wolf. What's Alexander Wolf doing wrong? What did he do wrong? What enabled over 50,000 people to be employed in Serbia for several years? I'm talking about 50,000 people who only work in German factories in Serbia. There's a lot more of them. What reduced the unemployment rate from over 26% to 11%? What he did together with the people of the Serbian government, along with all of us, but he was the one who, above all, stood up for it, made so many highways, which made so many corridors, which finally connected Serbia with Serbs from Republika Srpska, with Serbs from Montenegro. Those with "N1" and "Today" laugh, says whenever there is an official event in Serbia, there is Dodik, there is Andrija Mandic, there is Pupovac. Well, that's what the country's responsible president does, gathering the leaders of the Serb people from the region. What's wrong with that? It's not bad, it's got some people who think they'll like those other people if you keep your mouth shut. As far as I'm concerned, I know they'll never like me. I know that if one day they come to power, for me and for my family, and that's the case with Atlagic, and with Becic, and with Orlic, and with all of us, and with Komlenski, there will be hardly any place in Serbia, because they are already threatening us with hangers, motor saws, long pipes, etc. But it doesn't scare me. We will continue to fight for Alexander Vukic and his politics. Are others going to do that? It's up to them to assess. We will, but we don't have a chance to calculate. If we don't beat them, if SNS Gilas and Vuk Jeremic don't beat them, there's no one else to win, that's why we fight so hard. I know that after the election, Aleksandar Vukic will be generous again, he will again allow Serbia's government to enter and those who are bothered by the exposure of Mark Atlagic, who are bored with Marko Atlagic, who wonder why he keeps saying the same thing, because they do not understand that the people of Serbia, that citizens of Serbia, that all those who monitor television transmission should understand the situation of disasters organised by Serbia who pretend to never have been in power. By yesterday, both Djilas and Vuk Jeremic and Boris Tadic and Cedomir Jovanovic and everyone else were in power. And that's the point of exposing Mark Atlagic and that's the point of exposing all of us from the SNS. I leave you other colleagues from the parties you are in the Serbian government at will, if you want to fight, fight, if you don't want to fight, you don't have to fight, but at least be polite enough and polite enough not to say publicly that you don't mind a man fighting for Alexander Vukic's politics.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60467	Right on line, MP Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60468	Dear Vice President of the National Assembly, I'm not going to lead the controversy, just to say, where I'm not allowed and where else. Just to say a few sentences, there's someone who didn't go on vacation this summer and who used to come here every day to this National Assembly, those gentlemen from the former DOS very well know who first gets in here, who goes out last, who goes to the National Library, who goes to the SANA library, but we put that aside. I've never, ever been allowed on any television after my trial in The Hague, nor has anyone called me. Many are invited who do not know what it is, who have never stopped there, but I fear nothing, they fear me, my honest and honest spirit and positive energy. Borko Stefanovic here, you know me very well, to play football, me in these years and you in the team you have, so let's see who plays better. Secondly, I'm not allowed, now I'll probably try in July, let me be exact on July 18, 2019 in the show "360 minutes" when famous academic Dusan Teodorovic, the people know why he has a name, because when the name of the president of the state is mentioned he trembles with hatred. And that's what I want for myself, that's what I want for him, and Borko Stefanovic, and they know it, very well that I don't want anything bad for anyone, and that's not what Alexander Vukic wants either. You know what that respected academic said, I quote - MPs are primitives. It's a finished quote. Where I'm allowed, gentlemen of the academics to present my opinion rather than here, and in the journals of science, so let's go there, science, we're going to make it. Here, to see, therefore, there was no sign of the distinguished academic when the journalist one said, quote, that the Republika Srpska genocide was a complete quote. Dear academic, I know when you left this country and when you came back. I was at the country defender at the time and I didn't lose one hour where I worked, that's the first. Secondly, you know where I came from, I never said it, my fellow professors know it, when there was a bombing, at Pristina University, and I couldn't get out of Pristina. You know where I came out, getting away with it? To Podgorica, I felt the first bombing, not you, Mr. Teodorovic. Dear academics, I know where you were when the bombing was, and when you came back to this country, you knew very well and put all yours in state institutions. Why am I not given the opportunity to raise my students in the spirit in which many are given the opportunity? I'm a lucky man. And you know why, Mr. Academy, what I taught in the department is wonderful people, wonderful teachers, and two travel from Republika Srpska, as I have traveled here, ends the session at eleven o'clock in the evening, and by bus at six o'clock in the morning, and students know it before them, and these two from Bileca are now traveling. I'm a lucky man to have raised students like that. How many are you, gentlemen professors? You want me to count more? You want to go to business, and I never mentioned it, my former students from both Slavonia and Dalmatia, and from Zagreb around the world are decent people, and yours? My former students don't have that kind of wealth, Mr. Teodorovica, as you do. Secondly, if someone tells me, rather than giving me the opportunity, in one list as it came out, that Milojko Pantic, I quote, said, in that list, for national security, quote – that she was criminalized, privatized so-called. Security service, finished quote. Is it true, Mr. Academyman, or isn't it? You know what this Milojko Pantic says about the president of the state? I don't feel like saying it anywhere, but here. You know very well who rules the media, but it stays written down and it hurts you, it hurts that it stays written down, for me and for you. I'm not gonna appreciate myself or you're gonna appreciate yourself. You know who's going to evaluate that? Generations that come behind us, however anyone does it will be appreciated, but when you talk about quoting. I'm happy, I'm telling you now, that my former students across the former Yugoslavia are only at one European university, but I didn't know, that's what my colleagues told me, 670 quotes, and they're not Serbs. I did not escape, I defended the Serbian people in Croatia. Let the Croats say in the Croatian Parliament, have I ever cursed the Croats there? I quoted it this way, didn't you? I quoted Kukuljevic, Ivan Kukuljevic, as saying in the 19th century. I quote, "I know it bothers you, this people of Serbia has preserved a pure folk in the most important time. And look at all the muscles in Kordun that are fighting themselves are Serbs" – finished quote. Did I insult anyone? Of course not. You think I'm the intruder of the president of the state. Ask the president of the state, I won't talk about it. That's why, unlike you, I'm a humble man. I'm happy I like calling teachers, which I love to be, you can never be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60469	The word has a National MP, Milorad Mijatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60470	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. By listening to this debate, there may be an impression in the public that there are noises within the ruling coalition. I have to tell you, they don't exist. We are unique, we have all entered the coalition for certain goals. Those goals are being achieved. You know, when we're saying whether we're defending Alexander Vukic or not enough, I have to tell you that Alexander Vukic defends the results, defends open highways, defends open jobs, defends the results achieved in financial consolidation, defends the results achieved in foreign policy, so that's what this ruling coalition does, and that's what we're all together within that ruling coalition. We are programmatic, in some things we are not the same, at the very least we are different parties, but the results we achieve are what graces us and that is what the Social Democratic Party as a party of the ruling coalition will always emphasize. We're proud of the fact that the chapters are open, that we have results. We stand together behind these results. Behind these results, of course, SNS is a complex party. Aleksandar Vukic is the leading politician and, of course, the greatest influence, the greatest results and merits, has the SNS. We are part of the ruling coalition, but please, part of our work and our commitment contributes to these results that we have. It also contributes to the influence we have within this ruling coalition. I'd like to point out a few more things. In public, it is often observed that we are calculating, that we are courting someone. No, gentlemen, the Social Democratic Party was a correct coalition partner within the ruling coalition, it was, it was and we want further co-operation. We keep stressing, esteeming, and stressing, and doing so. So we don't calculate change, we don't court anyone, we're a party that has a certain influence and in accordance with our strength, with our influence we'll be in the part of the coalition, of course if the party that decides on it has a knife and a cake, which is SNS. Further, what I must especially emphasize. We have MPs who are also scientific workers. I'm both a scientist and a politician, but I'm asking you to tell me about my scientific contribution, what I did in science, let my colleagues, fellow scientists, mathematicians, as I am. For that there are very important criteria, there are magazines, there are reference magazines, and everyone can look at how many SCI quotes I've done, what I haven't done, and by doing so, they can't and can't attack anyone because they're a scientist and they're transferring it to a political field. As a politician, anyone can attack me, tell me the arguments where he disagrees or agrees with us. Now, in that part, I think that within this assembly of ours we have to make that distinction of what science is, what scientific methods are, and what can be spoken by scientific methodology, and what is politics. As a politician you can attack me all over the lines, but you can't touch my scientific dignity and what I as a scientist, as a man, as a professor wrote and did. So I ask you to go back to the amendments within the National Assembly, to return to this significant law on dual education, and that is one of the results behind which we are all behind, one of the significant results where Serbia is changing, where Serbia is moving forward. Now, that's what I have to affirm, and let all these things go and constantly make a distinction between political work, scientific work and everything that seems to be. I get the impression that a lot of people anywhere are doing it right now. One more thing to say, unlike others, the Social Democratic Party is not the party that will attack anyone. We stand behind the population that within this coalition we have a consistent, clear policy, where we tell Serbian citizens what we are going to do, we are taking bills and we are going to the citizens of Serbia. We don't tell them fairy tales, we tell real things and we show it to the results. We show the results of the related pensions that will come, help the pensioners, then the wages that will go and everything that goes on. Now, on this basis, it is the policy of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia and I ask you to know in public that we are indeed part of the coalition and that there are no small calculations for us, as we want to do, and by work, honesty and correctness, we defend our policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60471	The word has the People's MP Maja Macužić Puzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60472	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mr. Ministers with Associates, fellow MPs, respected fellow citizens, before we continue on this law that is on the agenda today and on this amendment, I would certainly refer to our colleague, Professor Mark Atlagic, who, indeed, by his position and way of presenting SNS policy and led by Alexander Vukic, has been convicted here in parliament for the last few days by opposition media. He has full support, not only of his SNS counterparts, but of all citizens who support our party and Mr. Alexander Vukic. I would now return to the amendment, that is, the Law that is on the agenda today, and I would certainly commend, not only this law, but the complete system of dual education, but especially this law that makes, in particular, some upgrade of this system that works very well in practice and which has produced excellent results. The benefits of dual education are indeed multiple, in students this means that even in the course of education, practical skills can be acquired from knowledge, with employers that means easier arrival of necessary and necessary staff, and the benefits for society are being seen, just because the workforce is educated fully in line with market needs and economy, so that unemployment will become less and less and less in the future. Examples of good sides and examples of dual education are the arrival of foreign investors and the recent opening of two factories in the town of Kraljev, where I come from, which have also brought the strengthening of dual education and the increasing range of the economy and the school system. This two-way co-operation is precisely in favour of economics, pointing to its needs for the work force of specific qualifications, has affected the introduction of new educational profiles in the School of Engineering in the Kingdom. So this school year, an educational profile was introduced there -- a fashion tailor, and all of this on the initiative of a Turkish company that is soon opening plants in the Kingdom, "This group", where it will employ more than 2,500 workers just like this specific profession. This is not the only example of good practice of dual education in the King. There is also an enterprise like Radiator, which has been working with the same Machine-Technical School for years, while at the same time training and practical and theoretical educational profiles of locksmiths, welders and the like, then the Forest School, which is working with the companies "My Room", which co-operates with the Hunting Association of the Kingdom, the Elektrotechnical School "Nikola Tesla" which has also introduced new educational profiles to meet companies operating in the territory of the Raško Management District, introducing new educational profiles from the electrical profession. There are many other examples, I'm sure, in other Serbian cities. Such examples of good practice of dual education are just talking about promoting the socially responsible role of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and companies that are really active partners in this system. Regardless of criticism addressed to the system of dual education by the opposition, especially from the part of the opposition that does not participate here with us in parliament today and does not discuss this and how good the law, I am sure this law will be an excellent upgrade to the previous dual education system and that in the coming period we will have practically educated, highly qualified and professional labour market workers in Serbia. In voting day, we will uphold this law. Thank you, once again, and I hope there will be many more laws like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60473	Thank you. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60474	Mr. Minister, the Serbian Radical Party has against this way of higher education and co-worker Radeta in principle brought forth a series of arguments and conferences that will be experienced by our academic society and future intellectuals, for the reason that such a strategic important thing, which is primarily the focus of young people on academic titles and policies that are guided in this direction, cannot be created through the policy of the industry of certain companies and countries that come to Serbia and which, with subsidies given to them by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which are of 10,000 euros and more, create jobs. Data from the exact National Employment Service say that two-thirds of young people, college educational people, come from social sciences, barely a quarter from natural and technical colleges, 11% coming from the field of medical science. And now, which one of you can explain, for these unemployed who have finished social or similar sciences, how are they going to move into, here, a co-worker, but, let's say, in the Radiators King, in the Simmons Kragujevac, in a factory like that, and what do we really want, or what do you want to say to this? That that diploma should have at that time, for that employer, a useful value? One to say that he is trained to work in that and that job, which he is trained to do. Well, you know what, all these young men and girls who have finished high school and where the dual education process in high schools is started are literally being shifted overnight to be robots and cheap labour for industry as it is now, because it's no problem that a high school student who finished some social course, say, linguistically, or mathematically, or that a journalist-co-worker, or already all the directions he has, overnight teach him to work on the register, to work on a gas station, to work for the machinery tape. But that's not good. We can't for future generations create such a workforce and that these people have this calling, and they don't have basic or elementary academic education. Education means that what they have been trained for is being applied to practice tomorrow and that they continue to improve and that in such a way the state of Serbia is creating its education policy. This model is not good at all and we don't support it.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60475	Thank you. The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the 2nd Amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60476	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we Serbian radicals have been fighting a battle with representatives of the government of all regimes for two decades now, with ministers who are dealing with resolute education and education with the intention of returning, above all, dignity and national spirit to the education system. We are trying to draw attention to ministers through the amendments and through the debate, any draft law that is on the agenda in, to the need to raise the level of academic education in Serbia, that they must pay attention to respect for national interests, tradition, history, letter, language. These are topics that no ministry has ever considered in these twenty years, from the famous Gaša Knezevic and his so-called. The denaciations he was proud of, everyone after him, of course, no one has reached him in a negative sense yet, but he hasn't gone far in a positive way and we're really trying to explain. It's nice when Minister Sarcevic here at every session says he's a patriot and it would be really good if... Every minister must be a patriot. Here comes Mr. Djordjevic and he is certainly a patriot, but it is indeed understood that every minister is a patriot, although in today's Serbian government it is not. Indeed, Minister Sarčević, you must show your patriotism in action. This dual education exercise, with this, with what, believe me, has nothing to do with essential reforms. No Cyrillic is written in Serbia. There is no Serbian language in Serbia. In Serbia, the history of the Serbian people is falsely represented through textbooks. Nothing that is traditional is respected in Serbia. This is when I say, of course, I don't think it's absolute, but you see how few Cyrillics there are, from textbooks, via media, anywhere. I'm sorry, Mr. Sarcevic, that you won't be able to answer these questions for me, but maybe some other time if you stay in the government. So, no, the Serbian language, the real Serbian literary language is becoming less and less spoken, and less used, both in this National Assembly and by members of the government and in the media. Every time I repeat the media, because they're kind of the key to that kind of thing. We don't understand how the Ministry doesn't understand that these are essential problems? Whether we're going to be educated through a dual system or through a classical one, that's even less important. It's important that generations are educated, it's important to raise the level of academic knowledge and academic education. You gentlemen, who have been in the Ministry for a long time, I believe that you fully agree with what we're saying, because you yourself notice that this is no longer the case. You yourself notice what knowledge, educational level, academic knowledge, young colleagues who come to work and the Ministry. How long does it take you to trust to give them some serious work to do? There's no culture at all, there's no width, and it all has to go back to our education system. And also, the practice of a little prom, a big prom, an entrance exam, you know, it hasn't happened yet that any of these experiments of yours have passed without some at the beginning, or at the end of the school year, without any incident, without some affair because you accept something that you're being imposed on. For example, this little prom, we talked about, Vojislav Seselj still, I think in June or July 2015, held the conference, warned that this IPA project, which costs 6.6m euros, was run by some Danac Peter Mogenson, that behind it was Tinde Kovac Cerovic, that her other, third husband was involved, and that all of this was actually done by then by Minister Srdjan Verbic. Of course, in 2015, what are these radicals saying? It happened, we turned out to be right. Why do I even remind the public of that? Because current Minister Mladen Sarcevic said this: "In the meantime Verbic left the ministerial post. In early April 2015, a new Law on textbooks was adopted which, according to current Education Minister Mladen Sarčević's announcements, will eradicate hunters in the murky." And the hunters in the murky came out, God, out of the murky full-open hunt, they are the fundier Franjo Tudjman, this Zuzul, there is this Croatian businessman Žderic, there are their companies "Big School", "New Logos", "Klet". They work, or they print, in Croatia more than 50% of books are printed for our basics from first to eighth grade. It costs more than 30m euros a year. We give 30m euros a year there to a Zuzul, to continue to finance the HDZ, as he once financed, was one of Franjo Tudjman's first financials. That's where our books are printed and from here we get books, where it's written about Jasenovac like this, two sentences -- there was a Jasenovac, no casualties, without what was really going on there. There are books printed with various deliberate printing errors that have actually misentered historical facts, besides our book publishing office. Is there one country in the world that would allow at least the history and textbooks of Serbian language to be printed by another state and hostile to Croatia, compared to Serbia? Let's talk about chemistry, physics, some natural sciences, strictly professional, so let's talk about it, but you've done, people, something that nobody's ever done. Then here you talk about how education is reformed, how you introduced this, how you introduced that. You haven't introduced anything good. This all that has been introduced is devastating, devastating for the state of Serbia. They repeat what I said the other day, my people, do you understand, and I believe many understand, that the greatest damage to one country is to destroy generations in the education system. It's an irreparable damage. Anything else can be compensated and it can be made up of a path that cracks, in 10 days, it'll be patched up, and they've destroyed all the factories before you, which have made so many people quits, and what you're giving to strangers, you don't know how or why, all this responsible government can one day put in order, to clean up corruption, to put away thieves, criminals. Everything can be brought to order by the only lost generation in the education system can never be returned. I'm sorry if you're not aware of that at the Ministry, if that's not what the entire government is aware of. What do we get with a criminal education like this? We get formally educated, and essentially uneducated people, and these are people that are the most suitable for all kinds of manipulations. They're dolls who've got the strings and they're doing what they're told. We, when we say that we are against this law and we think that we don't need this law at all in our education system, we want first of all to draw attention to that you have to essentially, profoundly change the system of education. You know, it always surprises me, that's what I once said to Minister Sarčević, I asked him, does he consider himself an educated man? He said yes. Does he consider himself an educated man both essentially and formally? He said yes. Here, I think so, too. So how does it turn out to be both educated and educated in this terrible system that is now changing from the foundation? We don't think some things should change. We don't think we should keep up with time. We don't think everything in schools should be digitized, but we would never allow the software to be purchased for the digitization of electronic logs in a suspicious tender, where only one, again the Croat, appeared, and he gets, imagine, a job. There are a lot of problems, much more than whether or not we're going to say change this or that, and you say, "We don't care what these radicals say, we don't want to change it, we plotted it to be like this." It is much more important to have awareness of people in power, above all in the Ministry of Education, Education, and then in other ministries, to be aware of the fact that we have to devote ourselves together to education of children from preschool age to the highest academic titles. I told the minister the other day, believe me, and I believe you know situations like that, that kids end up in elementary school saying they can't read, that a girl goes to second grade, I guess, commercial schools, in cross words to that question -- a town in Dalmatia? It says "Nish." It is not disputed that Dalmatia is part of a great Serbia, but imagine that ignorance and that level of education. In high school, believe me, you have as many examples as you want. All they know is that they're knocking on the phone and using a fund of those 12 words that are used on Internet networks. Teachers, unfortunately, do the same thing, teachers who truly want to deal with education are deeply disappointed in the education system because the directors, just look at themselves, so God don't mind the ministry, were in the DS until yesterday, and then the president of the municipality calls them when the shift happened, says, "You know, if you want to stay director, you should change the party." What to change, I've been born, of course yours can. So it's the only motive for the directors to stay in the director's seat. Probably because they get into a nice mess with this Zuzula and this one about ordering textbooks, so on a field trip, etc. I don't see what their other motive is for them to be CEOs at all costs, without almost nothing working in their schools. I said the other day, 55 teachers, five laptops, and they should keep an electronic log. How? Just tell them how. How is everyone gonna get stuck? I repeat, and there will be more words about these problems, the SRS calls on the government of the Republic of Serbia, Minister Sarcevic and all of you to finally embark on a serious reform of the education system. So, all that you're doing so far, all this stuff that's been done so far has been some distraction, experimentation, listening to warrants from some European directives, etc. Please return to our traditional learning, respect for science, respect for Serbian national interests, our history, our language, our letter, return dignity and teachers who have great problems with students who don't listen to them, because moms and dads of those students who are on the advice of parents are actually all saints in schools, because they have 20,000, 50,000 dinars to turn the hall. It all came down to such a miserable and low level and it will cost us all by missing out on education generations of young people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60477	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Here you go, colleague Boyic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60478	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, speaking in principle of debate on this proposal for a dual model of higher education studies, I said it was a law for Serbia's European future, if it is and when it is, and until then, this is a law on religion, on the line. This is a law based on European experiences. You listed German experience, where the number of study programmes increased by 50% from 2006 to 2011. I don't know what these experiences will help us with our education. Or the case of France, where all major firms, about 2,500 of them including the electricity industry of France, are obliged to employ a minimum of 5% of dual students, as you called them, otherwise, I don't like this term, so students with completed this form of study. Or the case of Hungary, where the largest number of investments comes from Germany and where they are the bearer of industrial development and automotive industry and where the Hungarians have completed a complete restructuring of the education system. So, I want to underline the principle of SRS attitude towards both the EU and this model of study is negative, because first of all, the transplantation of other people's experiences is neither appropriate, nor applicable in our society and in our educational space, because for this kind of thing there should be a state of strong and developed economy and economy, which, in any case, is not the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60479	Thank you. The word has been made by Parliamentarian Olivera Pesic. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60480	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a colleague suggests that Article 3(1) delete point 10. Article 3 defines the objectives of dual education in 10 points, with a point of 10, i.e. the tenth goal of dual education, the promotion of the socially responsible role of the employer in society. The role of the employer in the realization of the dual model of study and association with educational institutions is certainly to promote the socially responsible role of the employer in society, especially when we talk about less developed environments. When we talk about less developed environments, I will mention Leskovac, a city from which I come, in which for now three secondary schools implement dual education with more than 30 companies, both domestic and foreign. I have to say, the results are already visible. The data suggests that a large number of students start their working relationship immediately after graduation. We all know that in countries where dual education is realised, that these countries have a lower unemployment rate, in particular they have a lower unemployment rate when looking at the category of young people, because employers, after completing the schooling of these students, will in this case be students, and learning through work, get labour with experience. So, I believe that this amendment should not be accepted or deleted (10) point, or one of the objectives of dual education, which is to promote the socially responsible role of the employer in society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60481	Thank you. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Saviæ, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60482	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, there is no minister, but well, we will continue to discuss this law. I have submitted an amendment to article 5 of this bill. Otherwise, this Article 5 speaks about the design of study programs, or modules, that is to say, who should be involved in this work. And the law says that, among other things, employers' representatives should participate, which is not controversial. But the issue is something else, which I asked for with my amendment. The experience in high school, from dual education in high school, has shown that employers are absolutely uninterested in the development of study programmes and modules. And that's why I asked the amendment to allow employers to participate in the design of study programs and modules, but only if they wanted to. In any other case, the fact itself of imposing their participation in all this will slow down and brake this process. But, well, let's assume the government was right when she refused this amendment of mine. We will now pass this law in a few days. In eight days after that, it will be published in "The Official Messenger" and will enter into force. And now there's this new employer who hasn't been involved in the design of these study programs. Then according to this literal interpretation of this member of the law, it turns out that since he did not participate in the development of study plans and programmes, such an employer will not be able to participate in the dual education process itself. So I think that this amendment of mine should have been adopted, because it's field stuff, the things that practice has proven, that is, some things are practice and denied. We are constantly, not only this government, but all other governments are mostly reforming education, but all these reforms are somehow either going sloppyly or going literally in the opposite direction. We've seen, we've also had a reform in high school and other high schools, but nobody's ever thought of, let's just say, in math high school introduces the subject of drawing geometry, because a huge number of high school graduates who finish math high school are then defined as studying at technical colleges and drawing geometry is one of the crucial objects for all technical schools, but nobody's thought about it. But since the minister isn't here, I'd like to finish my presentation this way.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60483	Thank you. She is a colleague of Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60484	Thank you, Your Honor. The amendment has been submitted to Article 5, which usually regulates the study program by dual model. I must point out that the essence of this law, the law of study by dual model, is to build a partnership relationship between a higher education institution and an employer or more employers, and all in the interest of protecting the best interests of students, and that he would gain knowledge and competence in a real environment and that after leaving school he could manage his knowledge and knowledge is power. Therefore, there is no question here at all that employers can, but employers should and must participate in the study programme, because also through the implementation of the learning programme through the work of students through mentors in employers and how they participate in the implementation of that study programme, which were jointly designed by higher education institutions and employers. What I want to point out is that the driver of the reform of the education system and the man who initiated all the reform processes in our society, for the better quality of life of all our citizens, is Alexander Vukic. I have to point out, as far as high schools are concerned, according to this year's data, of 312 students, who graduated from high school according to the dual education model, 204 students were employed. Therefore, all research shows that students who complete dual-model education at a high percentage of 75%, up to 90%, receive employment within six months. Unlike the tycoon, Đilas, Tadic and Jankovic, who did not carry out any reform processes, because they were only interested in their personal wealth on the burden and on the coat of arms of workers, this government, our President Aleksandar Vukic, is now struggling to complete education and acquire qualifications according to the highest standards and, of course, gets a job soon. Education is in a direct causal relationship with poverty reduction and education that gives young people the opportunity to get to employment as soon as possible to affect GDP growth, and the reduction of the poorest. Of course, here I would also like to highlight the importance of the Air Force Academy in secondary education, which schools its students on 11 educational four-year profiles. It is no wonder that one of the most significant airline companies, or aircraft factory, Germany's MTU is now looking for a destination for its factory in Serbia, as the first criterion cites exactly the quality of dual education that is being implemented and implemented in the Republic of Serbia. I must also point out that the Zemun Transport and Technical School has contracts with Austrian companies and their students in order to acquire knowledge from logistics and shipping skills in the field of traffic find jobs and jobs in Austrian companies. Therefore, such a law is certainly in the interest of the better and overall progress of the Republic of Serbia, and for the overall progress of the Republic of Serbia in the best way, every day and as the country's greatest patriot, Aleksandar Vukic is shown.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60485	The word is from a colleague Jelena Žarić Kovačević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60486	Thank you, Mr. Arsic, for giving me your word. Dear Ministers Djordjevic, of course, that the participation of employers is crucial, because only by their active participation can we know the needs of the economy and in what sense the practical application of the dual model in higher education should take place. Also, employers' participation will make it easier for students to choose a model or to choose study programmes, to choose what they will do the next day, because, of course, each student expects to be employed after the study is completed. Otherwise, no one restricts employers from being able to report tomorrow if they are interested, unless they were directly involved in the process of developing their own study programmes. As an example of good practice, I always point out the construction of a science and technology park in Nis. So the city of Nis has been strategically defined, for example, for the development of the IT sector and therefore invests in Nis and the future of this area, but also in the future of young scientists by building a science and technology park. The goal, therefore, is for this science and technology park to become a regional centre for the development of an innovative, scientific and technological enterprise to promote projects, to promote companies, and to be a centre for strengthening the economy of the city of Nis and the entire Nisa district. Therefore, I will support, or agree with the government's proposal to reject this amendment, because if only the possibility of employers being activated, so to speak, if they wish, then perhaps this law will not be applied fully, as the Serbian government expects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60487	My colleague Saviæ, on what grounds? (Nikola Savic: Replica. Nobody mentioned you. They were talking about the member you submitted the amendment to, not even the amendment. (Alexander Martinovic: Give him your word.) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60488	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what the distinguished colleagues of Vukojičić and Kovacevic were talking about is so, but only in theory, and I was talking about practical things and practical problems that arise on the ground, because I am most directly involved in this work. I don't mind that, and I agree that employers should participate in the development of study plans and programmes, modules, etc. However, the largest number of employers who want to take part in a dual education system, whether it is secondary or higher education, is not ready to take full part. So they don't want to send their employees, they don't even have the kind of staff that could go to education and so they can participate in these programs. They are willing to participate in the part where they need certain students or certain students. That's what I'm talking about. By the way, here's to saying that a certain number, a large percentage, 70 percent, and some percent, of those who finished secondary dual education found a job. Yeah, that's true, but he didn't find a job because he finished that very dual education. They find jobs and others with secondary education, because mainly dual education is applied to those professions that are deficiting. So, they found a job because of the deficiting professions, not because they finished dual education. Today in Serbia, there are no single ceramics on the bureau and many other professions. So that's the point.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60489	Right on the replica Jelena Žarić Kovacevic, then Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60490	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. On what the practice has shown and what results on the ground I believe that the Government of the Republic of Serbia absolutely has information and not only the Government and the expert team that was made up of representatives from the Serbian Government, but also the expert team that made up professors from the university who are professional, who gave their opinion on how this bill should look. So, the goal is what my distinguished colleague used to say, hiring young people, finishing colleges, staying young people in Serbia. It is this high-school school where we need it to stay in Serbia and that is what the government of the Republic of Serbia is doing. Of course, Alexander Vukic and the SNS are up for it. What I was going to say, regarding employers and higher education institutions, of course, is that there is a parallel between what high school institutions need, what students need to do to ensure that their skills, their skills and their experiences can be used on the other hand to help these employers help businesses in Serbia develop better. For these very reasons, I agree with the Government's opinion that this amendment should be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60491	She is a colleague of Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60492	Thank you. I absolutely agree with the government's opinion, but there's something else I have to point out. Absolutely shouldn't be skeptical when there's a law like this on the agenda. What's going to happen, we'll see about that, because the Ministry of Education and how it's going to work to monitor the evaluation of this law. What we can certainly claim, and doubt was, when the proposal for a law on secondary dual education was passed, there were also many skeptics, many doubts, but this showed positive effects. So of the 312 students who finished high school by dual model, 204 found employment, 90% of them are employed within six months. Employment directly affects poverty reduction. Employment directly affects the economic progress and development of the Republic of Serbia. That's one thing. The second thing is, modern technologies are in modern companies right now. These modern companies thanks to the policy of peace and stability of Alexander Vukic, but of course the government's policies are coming to our country. There are 62,000 of our citizens in German companies. The French companies employ 15,000 citizens of the Republic of Serbia. These companies don't come with out-of-date technologies. They come with technology for the 21st century. This law is primarily intended for students who are educated in technical and technological and medical studies. In order for students to rule with their knowledge, which I repeat again is the greatest power, it is through this model that they should be educated. The effects of this law, as well as the one on medium professional preparation, will be seen in three years and, of course, positive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60493	Right on line, MP Nikola Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60494	Here, I'll take a minute. Since we are colleagues Žarić Kovacevic and I from the same city and since she doubts my claims here, and what practice has proved and since she is a lawyer and lawyer, here I invite her to do with the contract that I offered many employers in Nis and who refused to sign, to go together and explain to them why they did it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60495	Right on line, MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60496	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Let me get this straight. I have not expressed my doubts about anything any of my fellow MPs have said. I just said I trust the government of the Republic of Serbia, to trust the expert team that developed this bill that is before us, which we are talking about. We're talking about a dual model in higher education, a dual model in higher education, that I believe in a professional team including university professors, that they certainly had information about how something proved in practice. Whether dual education in secondary schools has proved good or not has been said by my colleague Jevtović Vukojić, and as she said, time will show and we will see how this bill will be shown. On the other hand, I want to say that there are a lot of MPs here from Nis who, no matter what political option they belong to, could sometimes say something positive about their city, if that's how it really is. I hope that in 2020 the Niš Science and Technology Park will be opened. I also hope that Alexander Vukic and the government's representatives will be present in the practice of the existence of the Nis Science and Technology Park will produce excellent results for that part of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60497	Thank you, colleagues. Now, in accordance with Article 87. Rules of Procedure, I'm setting a break for an hour. We continue our work at 3:00, following an amendment to article 7, which was submitted by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60498	We're going back to work. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a Messenger of the people, Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60499	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, when one state, or government, decides to reform certain laws, then there must be and how justified reasons. We are here attending changes in the law relating to higher education, which has been extorted or whose purpose is the need of employers. If we were in another space and in some normal time, no one could believe that this is happening in one country, reforming higher education because of the needs of employers after so many experiences that we could learn that when one country is conquered, when a colony is made of it, then first and foremost, the impact on education and its culture and in this way is done in the long term. There was an opinion here in the defense of this law that we don't know what's waiting for us or how someone said it, we don't know what's going to happen. They may be such rights, but we have experience not only from our past, but from the close past of some other countries, for example, such as Hungary. Hungary is one country that has taken delight in general reforms at the end of the 1980s, and has even gone into this kind of reform where it has adapted its higher education to employers and one of the examples may serve someone for science, but those others are not worth even pointing to something that will learn, a Hungarian car factory, among other things, a machine industry known as "Pepele" was leading to metal processing technology. To simplify, they were known for a long time, holding primate in the processing of weapons, or cannon pipes. It's not about what cannon pipes are, it's about technology and making tools for the job. These engineers who worked, experts, they were trained in the Hungarian education system so they could manage such high-tech. When the change occurred, as Serbia now tends to the EU, so Hungary at the end of the 1980s, from what they say about Russian armor, could hardly wait to get into the embrace of Coca-Cola, you know what they did first, first instead of the Zeppel factory, those who produce Coca-Cola opened the refrigerator factory, and then all the engineers brought them to Germany, who had access to Germany, who had some knowledge in the field of metal processing, took them to Germany, and then said that high school had to be adapted to the production of refrigerators. The manufacture of the refrigerator, who doesn't know, it's the finished blocks, the finished parts that come together, it's the screwdriver industry, the bolt goes off, and that's where the whole technology and all the knowledge ends. Now, after so much bad experience as Hungary had as a state, we are now making a catastrophic mistake. Instead of learning from what was called dual education in high schools, we are now going to higher education. Gentlemen, what world do you live in? What government are you in? Don't you see the pressures on certain colleges and certain occupations? At the Faculty of Electrical Engineering, here is colleague Orlic, the largest number of applicants is running for information technology. But don't kid yourself, don't deceive yourself gentlemen, don't study and write down those information technology to satisfy the needs of employers here in Serbia primarily, but to go abroad. That's why they're enrolling in the Faculty of Electrical Engineering, these directions they're looking for abroad. Their basic idea is to work abroad and earn money abroad. It's only a matter of time before we run out of technical structure in this country at all. Those of you who are from community colleges, don't kid yourself, then the lawyers come in, then the economists. When you enslave a country, you literally release it or enslave its mind, no more slavery or occupation by means of weapons thanks to knowledge, and you go hand in hand, you place here as half a god's role as an employer. The employer doesn't care, he doesn't care about the education of a country, especially those who come from the side, get stimulating funds, they can't wait to earn as much capital as they can, and they don't care about both engineers and lawyers and economists. Don't do that. It'll be a mess. As we call the name Gaša Knezevic here, you will not differ, especially, from a resolution minister who obviously has a shortcut to work rather than to discuss reforms of this kind. But what to do is that's the way it is in Serbia. It's a phenomenon that's been following us since 2000. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60500	Thank you, colleague Mircic. According to the amendment, MP Aleksandar Markovic has the word. Here you go, colleague Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60501	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, I suggest that no amendment be accepted to Article 7. The bill, from that argument that the government also provided in the form of an opinion, why this amendment is not acceptable. As we can see from that opinion, I will read one part, says – the amendment is rejected because the Higher Education Act does not prescribe conditions for switching from dual to other models of study. The granting of authority to a higher education institution to regulate, by means of a general act, the transition from dual to other study models is in line with Article 102, paragraph 12. The law on higher education. So here's the whole other law. I'm sorry that my colleague's previous speaker overlooked it. What I can't get past and what it did to me in the oral explanation of the previous speaker, it's a comparison of Serbia with someone he said to the colony. I guess what he meant was that Serbia today is a colony of some kind or someone's colony, and I didn't get it very well. I would just like to tell him that Serbia today is not a colony, Serbia is today a decent, well-ordered and modern state, a state no one manages, a state no one commands, a state whose leadership is only concerned, and exclusively about Serbian national interests. Perhaps the previous speaker was referring to Serbia from another period. Perhaps the previous speaker was referring to Serbia when others were managing Serbia, so he described such cases. I could agree in one piece that, unfortunately, in our history, not so long ago, we had the head of the state of people who saw Serbia as a colony, people who fulfilled every whim and every desire and every request of various embassies, people who went by various embassies, etc., but this is not the case today. With Serbia, which is headed by Aleksandar Vucic, today no one can command, nor can impose anything that is not in line with Serbian national interests, and this is always demonstrated by the Serbian president at every turn. For all these reasons, I would like to invite you to refuse this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60502	Thank you, colleague Markovic. Comrade Mirčić, you would like a replica of the presentation of your colleague Marković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60503	When English experts analyzed what was the basis for India getting under the claws of the English Empire, they said that one of the reasons India started its own education system was that India invested huge money and everything else it needed to train its staff. That's one of the main reasons. Of course, no one would want to experience the fate of colonial countries, but, colleague, you have to understand that colonial status is not achieved by being enslaved by a weapon or an army. If you depend on technology, if you depend financially on others, if you depend, as in this case, on investors and them you adapt your education system, and especially on higher education, then you are one step ahead of that status. We can drill into the chest here and say: no one will command us, but you mustn't close your eyes to the fact that these same investors can pack up all of their machines, under the precepts, and leave this Serbia within 24 hours symbolically. Then what are you going to do? Then how are you going to explain? Where are you going to train those experts for the needs of these and such investors? What are you going to do with that ruined generation? When Stipe Shuvar ruined the former Yugoslavia, he introduced school reform, and you had ten years of primary education, classic high schools, classical technical schools, etc. were abolished. And they think it's one of the most devastating moves that's been made. The consequences of that were only felt many, many years later. Here, a respected colleague, the consequences are not visible at the first moment. The consequences of the long-term are here. When schooling for the needs of these employers one generation or not give God two, then it is to expect great consequences in the event of a change in their political and business thinking, then it is only a problem. That's what we have to talk about. (President: I thank you. We cannot close our eyes to the fact that the International Monetary Fund is above our heads. What someone says - I don't want the International Monetary Fund, it's for the public, but it's credits that dictate conditions and the way investors and the International Monetary Fund behave.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60504	Thank you, colleague Mircic. Comrade Orlic, did you report for the replica or the amendment? Since an authorised representative of the parliamentary group has been reported, and Mr Markovic is also registered, we just need to clarify. Mr. Markovic, you wanted a replica? No, I don't. Authorised representative of the parliamentary group? By amendment. Here you go, Mr. Eagle.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60505	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have to tell you that I have to admit to strange remarks that by creating more space for our young people tomorrow, they can show what and how much they can do and that tomorrow they can do a lot more results thanks to their knowledge than they could ever have done before, that by doing so, by creating these conditions, we're making a mistake, we're trapping someone, and we're doing it that way, as you said, a ruined generation. You're absolutely wrong, absolutely not. So, look, did anyone experience failure by allowing them to learn something more by allowing them to master what is today at the world’s most modern level? I don't think so. Did someone fail by creating a framework for him to do his job tomorrow on his own initiative or by finding this job with an investor, both domestic and foreign? I don't think so again. Has anyone ever failed by allowing them to get there, in addition to formal education, which is at a good level, and it also shows that we have a state university on the Shanghai List, so no one can get there, just someone who deserves it, gets more practice, gets more of those practical skills out of control so that tomorrow he can do it right away, without needing someone, a sports dictionary told, time to warm up, but immediately start competing with others, to know something to do, not just project, but to get to the final product? I don't think so again. These are not the ways for anyone to suffer destruction, but for them to advance. Look at Serbia today and those opportunities that are offered to young people and compare them with what they had, or did not have, from opportunities before these measures have taken place that we have been working on for several years. What's wrong, what's wrong with you having a good pillar for whoever wants to invest in Serbia? What's wrong with you providing literally thousands of jobs, every time, in every step that you support or by keeping our people in mind that our people have that level of competence of profession in those areas that they need to find work easier or by motivateing someone with good capital and high-tech to come here? So what's wrong with today's young people, when we talked about these skills that are acquired through dual education, we provide 75% to 90% of the jobs for students who have completed these programs? Is it a bad thing that a young man today can make a fair profit and secure his own dinar, not depend on his parents, not on anyone else, if you will, from country and abroad, that a man can have something he can have, some means? So it's just been provided through these programs that we adopted here. Now we want to raise the scale more, so that at that highest level of education we can achieve similar effects, that young people come into contact with companies that have production, both domestic and foreign, without any difference, to overcome everything that is today's trend, everything that is current today, everything that they compete on the market today, so when they learn to do so, they can immediately apply it, right now, the moment they graduate, they can do something and do it. Isn't that much better than turning around at some point when, let's face it, there was no perspective and it couldn't have come to work because these from the yellow company to thousands of companies shut down, hundreds of thousands of people threw themselves out on the street to find out how they know and know, and when they say it's not decent today, they probably think it was dignified in their time that hundreds of thousands of people threw out on the street like this, showed them their hands towards the containers and said, "Now you see what you're going to do and where you're going to go." That was dignified? Should we look up to that period? To this absence of any perspective and any chance and to say – there was something different and better, it is not good today when a young man can immediately compete on the labour market and when he has where and when he has and with what, when he acquires more of that practical knowledge. Once a man could be a fantastic student, a fantastic student who can answer any question of the professor, that he can explain every lesson he listens to, that he can solve any task, but he starts to really work and learn that he really only works the moment he gets a job, so there's a traineeship, so he learns something, and he's aware of it, and everyone's aware of it. Isn't it better to give this young man a chance not to perform as an absolute beginner on the labour market than to say – during these studies I learned to work specifically and in companies that have a profile like yours I have had a valuable experience in the duration of a year, two, three years. Look at my CV what I've been doing, what I've learned. Such a man can immediately throw himself into the fire and immediately work not for the trainee's salary, but for what is considered a salary, here, an example for the sake of engineers, you mentioned some engineering colleges. It's just good things, and nobody should represent it because he wants to say that he would probably offer something different and better as bad, it's not bad, it's just good things. The Faculty of Electrical Engineering, for example, has always taken care of practice. But why should we now say, if we shouldn't offer even more space for practice, well, we shouldn't offer even more practical experience? Oh, that's good. It's good for the Faculty of Electrical Engineering, but it's good for a lot of others. The minister who explained the bill here said very clearly, some of them may not have listened very carefully, precisely with the different institutions that include the higher education institutions in our country were working on the bill on these solutions and those institutions were not only involved but they were behind the proposal, they said that, we want this, this is what we need, this is useful for us as institutions, but also for our students, this is useful at the end and these companies. It allows everyone to work better with them and to make better results for both students and colleges, and for these companies, there is no need to run from it. There's a company, both domestic and foreign. This is who took part in this, which all the higher education institutions had stopped from this bill, so they directly stood up for it and worked on it. The minister read it, too, but let's remind ourselves. There is also the Faculty of Engineering of the University of Belgrade, the Faculty of Economics from the same university, there is the “Institute Mihajlo Pupin”, the Faculty of Vrnjačka Banja, the Electronic Faculty of Nis, the technical sciences of Novi Sad, a number of other institutions. Now I've only read about the colleges that are listed here, and the minister has talked about others who are more than interested in these programs. So it's not true that anything will be ruined on the contrary. When you make this kind of space for young people in Serbia, you open the door so that they can do something they couldn't do before and that means easier employment, but also for those who want to start their own business. Well, imagine how valuable the experience is in that case. So, by yesterday, he was a great student, he mastered all the lessons, but he has no practical experience, he has a great desire, he has a good idea, he'd start his own business, how long would it take him to start doing it at all? How long will it take him to examine the market, inform others who are in what he would like to do, what would he like to do already? How much we're going to speed it up the moment we form an expert, but with experience, we're going to send it to the labour market tomorrow. These people who want to start their own business are mostly useful and convenient. That there are such people and that they are not all, in that you are also wrong, oriented towards going abroad, although the fact is, there are many countries where simply conditions are better than in Serbia, they will probably always be, and I don't believe that Serbia will ever be able to compete, I don't know, with the level of pay for the United States. Regardless, Serbia can be much better tomorrow than Serbia today, as it is today, is certainly much better than it was yesterday or just a few years ago. We can fix the conditions for our people here, but these young people, no matter what, there's always a better place in the world, they want to work here, too, many of them. How else would we fill the space in a science and technology park on Stardust? Where would we find people? And we found them because they went to school here and decided that they wanted to work and then went to these conditions that were secured within that tech park. Just because these people want to try, they want to try in Serbia and many of them are successful and it will be certain that they will continue to work here. How much, on the other hand, you know the examples that young people are just because they see it, they feel that Serbia is drastically different today, that it wants to support them, that it provides them with drastically more and when it comes to conditions, but also when it comes to subsidies that are often spoken of, which are directed towards our people, which many will not admit, which many without any need deny. Because they see the state trying to get around them that way and coming back. They went abroad sometimes but they noticed, different Serbia today, there's a lot of good space there that wasn't around the time I was leaving, so he came back. And you have a dozen examples just on a level, let's say that one park, but not just there, all over Belgrade, you can find spaces that represent innovation centers, business incubators. A space intended for people who want to start their own business, behind it today stands the state today, and it finances it by no small means. But to get those funds, just remember how far we had to go within the various obstacles we'd overcome on that road, to find good ways to call on more investment here. Today when someone says, did you make the country dependent? Well, wait, did any of the states in this world come to regret that they provided more jobs, more factories, more people, found a job and provided bread on the table. What she chose instead of all these people having no chance, no perspective and no place to work. It's an elemental thing in the economy. There is no country in this world that has always said, I would rather people have nothing to do with me than provide them with a job in some way, or motivate someone to do business. Has anyone left Serbia after 24 hours? It's nobody. Of course, domestic companies certainly weren't even in your mind. Did any of the foreign companies leave Serbia? Well, it's nobody, because what represents economic interest is always two-way communication. You're interested in someone who wants to open a job somewhere and hire someone and the interest of someone who wants to work. And, while we provide conditions for good and successfully organised and so well-functioning in Serbia, it is going on. We talked so much about those subsidies, we were taking data here. You shouldn't try to be politically harsh. The average job subsidy for both domestic and foreign companies is such that at 14 months' payoff. He didn't close the company in 24 hours, so he ran away and took, I don't know, money and machines with him, but he didn't do it after 14 months. All of this was worth more to us, and then it just kept paying off. It's worth the most, you know who? First of all, those people who came to work that way. For them, it was no difference whether they would have a salary, I don't know 600 euros, or maybe 800 if they were working somewhere else or 1,000 if they went to a distant country. For them, the difference was not something that could be measured by a factor of 1:1,3 or 1:1,5, but something that cannot be measured, which is an infinite difference. They had zero income. Zero job. Zero dinars at the monthly level for themselves and their family, so they came up with a job that involves sometimes 500, sometimes 800 and sometimes 1,000 euros, there are such jobs in Serbia today. It's such a difference that it's absolutely impossible by any calculations to plot how useful it is. Serbia is also a serious country, responsible for its resources. We have not singled out a single subsidy as many as some other countries, primarily the Central European State. He's exaggerating anyone who says that we've been exaggerating in this regard. We never did. Someone today is taking and criticising why 10,000 euros are being given per job in Serbia. That's not true. The average is much less. It is an average of four, but ten in Serbia will never be able to compare to 60,000 euros per job, which, for example, paid for its timely Slovakia. But they made it worth their while. So, and that's something that, not that can be paid, but that brings a lot of benefits. Imagine how well we've done here. Should we compare the fate of literally hundreds of thousands of people who had zero jobs, zero incomes a month, zero dinars on the table, to a situation where hundreds of thousands of people have jobs today? And these young people I'm talking about. Today they compete with the world thanks to those investments that someone says are a disaster, represent the destruction of generations. They are not competing with the world because they are given space to compete with the world. We talked here about new master programs for that level of study. When an example is being done, one of the engineering colleges is studying the study programme of the industrial revolution 40. It's just useful. It's not a lost and destroyed generation of whatever you said. No, I don't. It's a generation capable of competing with the world. When advanced information technology is studied at the Faculty of Electrical Engineering, it is said, communication technologies in the digital domain. Well, that's something that's happening on the world's agenda again. Thanks to the knowledge that they acquire, they can compete with someone who makes their own solution in these famous United States, but also in India that should not be underestimated. And those fantastic successes are right on schedule. You know why? Because they've been doing these things the way they do Serbia today, because they understand, the more space you give people to show their creativity, to show what and how much they can, to know more, but to have where to show it, you'll benefit more tomorrow. Thanks to such approaches, they made that big step. Thanks to such an approach, Serbia is much better today than it has ever been. And domestic companies have a strong interest in participating, they already participate. He's wrong, anyone who underestimates us, us as a society. And when it comes to our companies and when it comes to our students and their perspectives, it won't be able to endanger any domestic or foreign companies, if it's people, young people who, besides being full of energy, are also armed with knowledge. That can't happen. But today, our companies can do a lot of good things that were once unimaginable. I'll give you one example. A few days ago, I visited a successful firm, our firm, and I'm not going to say the name so that someone wouldn't charge me with advertising, but it's here at the Osregnica. It's about people who do serious things even though they do a lot of clean technical engineering work on a daily basis and hire 150 plus 60 workers in two locations. They're working on their own development. For these purposes, young people who get this kind of practice at the level of high school education as well as young people in colleges are also more than needed and more than useful. And with these young people coming from different secondary schools, especially technical orientations, but also with young people from the University of Belgrade Engineering. They're very cooperative. And they say that we have a direct interest in supporting such programs to participate in them. And the Faculty of Machines can give fantastic experts. The more they'll be, among other things, for this company and this company like that, that they can do everything they do here, but to end these developments, to make prototypes, models in this particular case that I think, all the time I'm talking about, modern vehicles, and then to offer it to the world, to be something that, by its performance, exceeds what's best at this point on the world level, to find the best manufacturer, and at the cost, it's completely competitive. Those things we can do. Shall we? Our attitude is what we want. And just because we want to, and we're serious about it, we say, let's do whatever it takes to secure that space through more practice, like this, in high school, we've already done it at higher education level. Here, we'll do the moment we adopt this law. Through help, subsidies, through security space, like these science and technology parks. We're already doing everything we can to get a good result. I'm sure it is an option, a lot of things we've already done, and you'll only see, as it is said, the God of Health, how we'll find a good situation in the state budget as it is now, and how it gets better over time, as it will certainly be, what we can support. Because it acts this way, Serbia, Alexander Vukic, is the country you see in these famous world rankings, which shows credit ratings, which shows success in attracting finance, as well as those that rank the quality of our education. In this position, Serbia today has that rank that could not even dream. And that's the difference between a serious responsible approach and a constant struggle for the result and a constant struggle to show, but in practice it shows the effect of what you're doing, and what exists on the other side that could come down to, well, just a little bit of a story, because the story is a bar, some would say, free of charge. We don't care about the story. We're interested in the effect, we're interested in growth, we're interested in bigger salaries that are going to grow, we're talking about how many days ago, in the next month or two at the level that everyone's been talking about to Serbia but us, but everyone but us, that it's never going to be. That's never, ever been an obstacle to us, and for us, it was never a reason to give up. We were never interested in other people's stories. We were interested in a concrete result and this is why it never becomes a reality in Serbia today. In this, the difference between Alexander Vukic, the SNS, the implementation of principled policy and everything else that has been, bending his hand, a little story, and how much to pass a day or actually not interest in things, if we are to be honest.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60506	Thank you, colleague Orlic. Comrade Mircic, would you like a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60507	You have two things here. First, if the government wants to develop its own technology based on high-tech investments, then it is justified that one part as much attention as possible and when it comes to directing personnel is committed to hiring or employing fuller capacities of those companies that have high technology. Unfortunately, however, we are not so lucky that we can boast that these investors are bringing this so-called. High-tech. Another thing, when one government has a strategy to develop domestic production, it is therefore investing in the education of new staff that can bring home production improvements through different specializations or ways of education. You have one of a series of examples. We, radicals, always have those examples that are close to the people and that ordinary man can understand. When Belarus was offered to join the EU, when it comes to the role played by Belarus in the EU's work division, senior officials told Vukashenko that roughly, Belarus could produce when it comes to the machinery industry, those aces, drawers and disruptors, to point out that Belarus has a tractor industry that is most profitable in the world, they said – but you don't have engines from a newer generation. Then the representatives of Belarus said – Yes, but we have enough capacity to adopt technology to produce these engines or to buy those engines from whoever produces them. But the market for our tractors is secure. And today, believe it or not, that production, so-called The famous B.B. tractor, I speak the name of the company, it's not advertising, it employs 17,000 people in Minsk, or the citizens of Belarus. A huge number, a wide range of experts follow this production, and we are in a position to worry about when the owners of the "Fiyata" flag, to get out of Kragujevac, to bribe them every day, to ask them to stay, even if they do not produce a new model. It's just a question of reality. As real as we are, no one denies the results, but let's see what the goal is. If the goal is to bring another factory like "Fiat" to Kragujevac, then we better not play, it's a waste of money, it's a product of an Italian company called "Fiat" There's no room for technical faces, forget it. It used to be a privilege to work as a machine engineer in the car factory Zastava.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60508	Thank you, colleague Mircic. Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60509	The basic question arises - if the essence of what should be a state effort to maintain a factory like the one that existed in Kragujevac in all possible ways, and if this does not happen, but this factory experiences the kind of disaster that the town of Kragujevac, who is guilty of, are we who are trying to find this solution, those solutions that we have in our hands to preserve and upgrade time or those that led to that collapse? We are certainly not responsible for the fact that we do not have something today that is 100% Serbian property and 100% Serbian product and no single smallest part will be produced anywhere in the world, or that has anything to do with any part of the world, only Serbia, that city or any other. Remember, if we have to rewind the film, when the problems started and who made them. All that someone would say today is that the least or the most questionable is about the fate of this city and this company, can someone today really transfer it to us? I'm sure he can't, at least it's no secret. It is known, because Alexander Vucic himself advocates finding wherever we can find an additional market for, for example, working, those cars that we have in Serbia, make whatever you want. Can anyone accuse him of, I don't know, dishonest intentions because we want to find extra space for what's being created here, and it's being created, to remind myself, by the valuable hands of thousands of people who are our citizens, our people here? When we say we take care of every man, yes, we really care about the fate of the one who has tomorrow to provide something for his family. Does this mean that a job will find a job at a foreign-capital firm? So is that bad? I'm not sure that's a bad thing. Nowhere in the world is that bad. Look at the complete globe of the earth and find a country that will say – well, not a good investment, so nobody hires me a few thousand people because it doesn't come from my country, but from someone else? I can't find such examples. I know there are foreign investments both large and small, and more and less successful, both in the People's Republic of China and the Russian Federation, and in India, which we talked about today. It's normal everywhere in the world. Each one leads, first of all, to care for his own interests. It's a clear interest of the state to keep her people busy. I guess that's something you don't have to explain to anyone. As for these tractors, news from today, US company John Dir is coming to Serbia and will produce tractors to process large areas. They're tractors for 200, 300 or 500 acres of land, and since every commodity has its own buyer, they certainly have these. That's what we're gonna do. If we're talking about whether we're trying to find a good place for people to build for us, we're trying. Does that have any effect? Well, there's a way. Sometimes there are things we want, but we can't make it happen. We'd all like to have not one case like MTU, which produces engines in the airline, but to have 50. We would love to have 50 of them, but that one, who tried to bring him, and Alexander Vukic tried hard, tried hard to bring valuable people into Serbia to bring investments into Serbia and are so successful that the Financial Times congratulates us and says – Serbia according to this parameter, by investing in GDP, the world champion. They're so good and successful. (President: Thank you, colleague. I'm finishing up, Chairman. So these people are being transferred because they're getting a result, there's no way, and it's not real. You and I can want to be that result 10 and 20 times bigger, but today he is so good, so much more successful, that today anyone who wants to be honest and well-intentioned can only say – people, for this job caps down. If anything a man wants to make as his own contribution, it doesn't have to be worth it or a drop of sweat, it doesn't have to hurt his shoes further, it will be enough to contribute itself - I respect the results that Alexander Vukic and SNS made and has already done more than enough, among other things, for Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60510	Thank you. Right on line, MP Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60511	Don't get too far away from the subject. It wasn't that long ago when Education Minister Gašo Knezevic, the infamous Gassa Knezevic, was. They say the dead are best, but it's God's way of telling the truth about a man, so he's dead or alive. Whether he was good or not, he was executed for Serbia. He went out for a assembly speaker and claimed on behalf of the then government that the way and system of education that was being applied in Serbia, that in Serbia no longer needs a welder, no need for locksmiths, no need for more metallostriggers, that people who will follow scientific achievements in the world need in Serbia. See how time, practice, and life deny everyone, and even this mentioned one, who is remembered by evil. We are now in a situation where people of these professions go to the west, to the EU. Welders, locksmiths, metal scrapers, everything they claimed to be decadent, that it was overcome. They even went so far as to plant and plant Serbian radicals and say you're in some past century, what you know, it's all about computers. Here's another example, so it's not just us ominous birds, so now we have a hunch of Serbian radicals. Here, see what is current in Croatia, which is a member of the EU. It's current to literally devastate every shipyard. Now it's a shipyard in Pula. Do you think any master who was in the welding business, or this job, when it comes to shipbuilding, is out of a job? No, then the emissaries from Germany came to hire them. They've all hired them. Do you know who's left on the ice? The rest are engineers, lawyers and economists. They don't need them because they have their technology. They need masters to develop their own industry. That's the point. When I cited this example, when the blockage of exports from Poland to Russia came into effect, the Poles concentrated in Belarus to open their factories to convert their apples into juices and to export to Russia. Do you know what they were told from Belarus? Yeah, they're your apples, but they're our factories and it's our product, and yours is money. What do we have? We have a burning factory. We have other factories. These are all products and factories of foreign investors, and their product and their profits. (Alexander Martinovic: No, no. Yes, yes. Don't tell me now that whoever makes the Bosch pumps is our product? How are you going to explain to me that "Fiat" isn't our product? Well, "Fiat" is our product by that logic thing. You know, someone has to think strategically, to say -- this can serve in the future to develop our industry, to develop our technology. There are some replacements, so he says, "We have a chance in agriculture." Yes, but we need to produce thousands and thousands of tons of potatoes, apples and different kinds of agricultural products just for one program in information technology that will be our student or a graduate student of any technical profession college to place in the world. Just for one thing, for what little is invisible to the ordinary human eye, it brings profit. This is how we should act, to think about our interests, not the interests of investors and foreign investors, especially foreign investors.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60512	Thank you, colleague Mircic. Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60513	We've already explained that. Businesses registered in Serbia operate in Serbia, tax is paid here. These are our companies, aren't they? What is the name of this company in Kragujevac specifically? Fiat cars Serbia. Is that right? So whose and whose export are recorded when these cars come out of Serbia? Well, to us. It's not just that kind of activity or that sector. And apples, although I didn't understand until the end what was supposed to be the point, the apples of Serbia today with the success of exports, so it works, for example, in Russia, because it worked, because it opened up space for itself, as it opened space for the export of meat, meat processing, which in the Middle East, which in the Far East, we got all the way to China, because people try, work, find space, find good solutions. We are not bad at this, on the contrary, and the EU you are talking about is very critical and not so rarely, and it is, among other things, the market for our agricultural products, Western Europe, above all, but not just for them. Brother to brother one 70% of our exchange with the world goes that way, but that's not all. And even though we're talking about who we're working business with today, if that's supposed to be the essence of a grudge or a remark, here's to avoid suspicion. At the level of one year alone, it is 2018, investments coming from the EU to Serbia were over two billion, but there are also from East Asia, so right from the area where the People's Republic of China is located, over 700 million. There are also from Central Asia, or the Euro-Asian Union, which includes both Russia and Belarus, which you mention. That's over 230-240m euros. There are them from the Middle East, also close to 200 million. Serbia, if that was the essence, grudges or remarks, is not an only closed country. Serbia wants to use space for its, above all, good economic interest. It's not this or that part of the world, it's our question, our needs here, our people where they're going to work, our people where they're going to take out what they've done. Our people, if you want to talk about software, and where this software is going to be placed, but they also have conditions under which they will make it and example it is said that some small piece of software is worth how much exports the entire sector has, so there are also in Serbia. There are also companies in Serbia that are successful in this regard, which are already doing so today. So, just one note. It's not a small business there, it's a huge job, it's taken not only many months or years to do it, so it's to advance to a sufficient level to be attractive for the whole world market, so it further improves to work with these users, to constantly adopt a new one. First of all, it took many, many years and years of pain and effort and learning. And if there are, and there are several areas where Serbia is extremely successful today, so it's one of them, which today is very well understood that the process is such, that it's nature and that it encourages it in every segment, which helps these young people and while they're schooling to learn something and while they're schooling to practically master something and when they start tomorrow to have someone to turn to, to have a place to start, to have the means to start, to make it easier for them in every possible way to get to the product. When the product comes true, when it's mastered and built, to help them place it somewhere. Because it's working so seriously, that's why Serbia is far more successful today than it's ever been before Alexander Vukic and SNS. Let's talk about the number of enterprises that are forming...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60514	Please bring the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60515	Last sentence. Today you literally count thousands more open at one year than it was in 2012 or 2013, and the number of those who end up operating in one year, you know how much smaller it is today? and the same in thousands. Collect thousands in plus with those thousands we have fewer lost. You have a serious, significant difference today, and because of that difference, the whole country feels better. Better is the state register from which we finance highways, such as “Milos Great” and Corridor 10, the southern arm, you will see the east very quickly, but we also finance the growth of profits. In December of this year, the average of the Republic will be 500 euros. Those who promised that one day they would vote for Alexander Vukic and the SNS, when we got to that kind of average, of course they thought they would never be, so they were wrong, Gorko would regret it. Once again, if you want to make a contribution to Serbia, it doesn't have to require any effort on your part, just be there on that day when it happens, and it will be in some months from today, just be there to say "all the honor" and believe me, you've done more than enough.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60516	Thank you, colleague Orlic. Right on line, MP Milorad Mircic. Here you go, colleague Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60517	You may have convinced me when it comes to the Fiat as a domestic company, however, you obviously can't convince Vladimir Vladimir Vladimirovic Putin all these years. Remember only when there was enthusiasm that the first contingent of 10,000 cars would be exported to Russia and domestic products. From this to this day there is nothing. The answer from Russia is, not because "Fiat" does not satisfy theirs, there are also "Fiat" products there, but they said – it is a product from Italy. We can't buy someone else's product from Serbia. That's the point. Secondly, you set a good example, the great euphoria was around the exports of meat to Turkey, the great euphoria, 5,000 tonnes was announced from the possibility of expanding and increasing to 10,000 tonnes, to a multiple extended contract, etc. The literally series of shows, journals, information and different shows was on TV, which RTS, what about other TVs and what have we come into the situation? Here we are now in a situation where the project, which is so pompously announced, ends with the situation that those who have entered the business, invested not small funds, committed themselves, mortgages being pawned, are now in a situation where the state says - there is no extended contract with Turkey, it is not known what fate is, but Serbia's goods reserves intervene, so that the pounds of youth will be replaced by 17 kilograms of corn. Of course, mercantile corn is conditioned with certain particulars that, when it comes to the purchase of cattle, only authorised producers, i.e. the "Matijević" slaughterhouse and others, by the fact that the manufacturer of tow heroes, will have to bear the costs. It's from a pompously announced project, out of that contract, they said, it was a contract for decades. Some even went further, they said – It is a contract of the century, it is an unsanitary market. You know, we need the logic that you and one part of your exposure said, we need to think about how to use that foreign capital that comes in most foreign loans, to use it to develop our own, to develop our brains. Smart brings profit, brains make progress. The fact that we live in the belief that the Germans, that the French and those of the EU will bring us something that is good, are delusions. We must get out of these delusions. Don't keep telling us, Serbian radicals, that there was once a dark age, how those who were, they ruined it. We know that. Even while you were with us, you criticized it with us, and those who once led Serbia. They should not now be the on-call culprit or an argument to justify your success or failure, but the government must be strategically acting and thinking about development, especially about the development of education. We're discussing here, there's not a single minister. Isn't that proof to you that the government is referring to the proposal of these amendments and the addition of the laws? This is one of the most important points perhaps for Serbia at the moment, there is not a single minister. I suggest that the chairman take a break so that the ministers, as a matter of fact, are honored so that the man who is correct, Minister Djordjevic, at least, can do these jobs, so when he returns that we can discuss this in front of the minister, not for the reason that we will hear something, possibly clever, from him, but for the reason that it gives us the seriousness and weight of our debate that we are having.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60518	Thank you, colleague Mircic. I agree with you when it comes to correctness. Mr. Minister, I hope he joins very soon, I suppose, but he will join in anyway. Prior to that, the right to the replica of MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go, colleague Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60519	No, of course, the situation as it was during the former regime is not any sort of excuse for our successes, as we say, no. This situation is just an on-call reminder, an on-call reminder that people know what it was like, not to forget it. For what? Because it is so pathetic, sad, black, terrible for Serbia in every way and today, by some members of the former regime, offered as some sort of alternative to what Aleksandar Vukic and SNS are doing. Just so people don't forget what they're offering. That's why there's a reminder of it, of nothing else. And with our success, our result has nothing to do with it, really, it just makes it when one compares itself to one another, clear enough and obvious enough, but the result is itself. You know, the fact is that today we have these markets that you're talking about, but also many other markets that we haven't had before. Well, she's worth it. She can't be threatened by any of the former regime's representatives with her lies. They know people, I could take it out somewhere, the example works, the meat yesterday, or the agricultural products, or I couldn't, so compare it to what it has today and where it can take everything, so it's clear to it. Compare your receipts, how it is today and what he remembers very well how it used to be. Well, he says -- there's a clear difference between me and he can't lie to me about whatever he's saying about his period, not Djilas, not Tadic, not Jeremic, not this errand boy, Bosko Obradovic. They know people, you can't fool people and lie. And the differences are more than clear. So this is how we help ourselves, that we think about our own needs, so that's what we do all the time, that's what we talk about all the time. They, and we agree, who have sinned terribly, who have made such a disaster a relationship with certain interests and actions in Serbia, which were underestimating the welders, have made a catastrophic mistake. What are we doing today? Well, it's all the opposite. Did you hear anyone besides Alexander Vukic say - Serbia needs variables, that this is Serbia's real need? I don't remember anyone, including those who are in the O.R. and those who aren't in the O.R. He deals with it, he sees it, and he publicly tells all of Serbia about it. It'll confirm it to you in every company, and in those we talked about today. The one I was in and the one I mentioned, we certainly exchanged that line. Variators, do they need them? They do. Do you have them? We find them hard to find. It's a fact of fact, who led to that? You for underestimating them. Who's working on it today? Well, we who help to acquire skills, to capture knowledge, new and greater. I guess that's simple stuff, but these differences, so they're so clear and obvious that I don't have to explain them, but I want to remind you, because I see the question being asked -- why are we talking about them, I want to remind you of how big and important the difference is. We talked two days back about the minimum labour price. It's growing again, now it's increasing, thanks to our serious work, investment in young people, but not only in young people, we've provided jobs in Serbia, we've worked on our infrastructure, so thanks to all these things, we have more in the register today. Today we're re-upping that minimum price. But to see how she was moving. In 2008, the level of about 13,000 dinars, 2010 15 thousand dinars, in order to be 17 in 2012, in 2017 21 thousand, in 2017 22,880 and all these increases that you are following are coming at a time when we are beginning to strengthen our country, to fill the register, which is not done by the former regime, is done by Aleksandar Vukic, SNS and the Government that we support. Well, in 2018, 26 thousand, at this point 27 thousand, already how many tomorrow -- you know how many, according to the latest decision, over 30,000 dinars. Well, compare that to what I said, 15 grand in 2012 and 30 grand in 15 grand in dinars. Is it clear what the difference is? Is it clear what the measure of success of today's policy and what they said and represented some kind of success in 2012? (President: I thank you. I'm finishing up, Mr. Chairman. This is just one of the most picturesque examples of how in Serbia, how those who have underestimated both young people and older people in Serbia, and these and those interests, and technicians and engineers, and agriculture producers, and have always told us stories -- we cannot, we don't, we don't know who, and in fact, those stories and those words, are only giving ourselves an alibi not to see their insecure robbing of this country and all these citizens, so that theirs, as in the case of Dragan Gilas, hundreds of millions of euros, which ended up in company accounts and private pockets. They said that Serbia has no chance, that Serbia has no idea, that one day everyone will move out and then it'll probably be a happiness for everyone, and it can also have a chance and there's a way, but when – when it really is, when it's not a story, it's not just a lie and a trick for elections, but when it really is, and secondly, when it's being able, when it's fighting for the country, because it's really a country that loves and when it's being able to make a result. Now, that's the difference between these examples for, 30,000 and their 12 or 15. And you know what, over time, our differences are getting bigger and bigger.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60520	Thank you, colleague Orlic. We have time to discuss, don't worry, I'm giving you and Mr. Orlic exactly the same time, because we have a constructive discussion. Both you and Mr. Orlic, if you noticed, I warned you about four minutes, but you and Mr. Orlic were getting plenty of time. But we had a constructive discussion and I didn't want to interrupt it. We have three colleagues reported after the amendment. Let's go in order. First authorised representative of the SNS, Dr. Aleksandra Tomic, by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60521	Thank you. Dear Ministers, fellow MPs, in an amendment debate, we have raised many questions that we obviously did not get answers to, but we have received a broad picture of what Serbia looked like before 2012, and what it looks like now. The comparison of Serbia with India simply, when we talk about the economic system and economic policy of these two states cannot exist here in parliament, because India is a state of a billion inhabitants and because it owns nuclear weapons. Therefore, Serbia is a country located in Southeast Europe, which has taken a European path through European integration and has maintained very good historical relations with the Russian Federation and, of course, with the Republic of China. What we're talking about today, about good economic relations with these countries, is precisely the result of the responsible foreign policy of the Republic of Serbia, and this really happened when the SNS, headed by Mr. Vukic, came and took responsibility for the country's post-2012 leadership. This must be said at any moment and reminded, because until then you had professional practices organised by Gilas, who had completed the engineering college, so those people and those students had no place to work, because until then, members of his party, along with Jeremic and the whole team today called the Alliance for Serbia, all those students who had completed technical colleges, had led to their leaving and working in countries that are EU members, but had gone both east and west, because they had shut down, sold and raised loans by then, that they could not even open their companies here. At that time, by 2012, you had young engineers who simply had no perspective at all in Serbia. It was our responsibility to all of us who took responsibility to open up and offer a chance to the people who graduated from college here and it was the state who had to offer that chance. This opportunity in 2012 seemed impossible at a time when you need to put your budget back on track, so you can pay both wages and pensions and implement fiscal consolidation. But at that point, he was doing this "Fiat." "Fiat" is registered here as d.o.o. He pays taxes to the state of Serbia, has employees from Kragujevac and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, engineers working and living in Belgrade and their Italian engineers sitting in management are hiring our engineers. Thus, Fiat is a foreign company in terms of name and management, and it has given the possibility to produce "Fiat's" vehicles here, but the exports we simply work for the EU countries are Serbia's obligation under a contract signed before 2012. The commitments we all have -- the payment of salaries, also comes with taxes and contributions to Serbia's budget. Therefore, why was the Fiat vehicle not executed and exported to the Russian Federation? Because there are obligations that are called competitiveness in relation to EU contracts and because there is a European Commission for the Protection of Competition, which should give consent, as agreed when it comes to the Smederjevska Jelizara contract. So what the state of Serbia is holding today is that it is indeed implementing a single economic policy when it comes to EU member states. That is why we today have 65% of the EU's companies, EU Member States working with the Republic of Serbia, and that is why we have so much revenue in the Republic of Serbia's budget. We have over 18% co-operation with companies registered in the Russian Federation. So what the Republic of Serbia is showing is that its economic policy is conjecturing to co-operate with companies both from the east and from the west, and that is why we are essentially talking about growing over 4% of GDP today and that is why we are talking about foreign direct investment today. Last year was 3.5 billion. This year for the first six months, two billion. You've heard from my colleague Orlic about what structure we're talking about, how much they're compared to the Member States we're working with. Why is there a question today about dual education? I am only interested in why we here have amendments that simply want to get the impression, in their arguments from some MPs, that they do not advocate at all a model of dual education in Serbia. This is somewhat surprising because one of the 42 points of the Alliance for Serbia, when it comes to negotiations with party representatives, is just saying that they advocate, headed by Mr. Gilas, that dual education should be abolished in Serbia at all. Now I wonder – what are these reasons? I understand that the desire here is to put in place a whole new model, if we can overnight, education that will produce highly educated engineers and economists and lawyers, who will really lead to this huge growth of over 5%, which they really need, but you can't if you don't have big industries like the auto-industry, we've also seen the air-engine industry, MTU, as we will have in Serbia open capacities. What concerns me is the only campaign that is created in the public that dual education is not an adequate model for higher education in Serbia. So far, we have 7,000 high school education systems, children who have defined themselves as going to dual education. So this year we have 2,533 students enrolled. So, out of 7,000 future students of certain colleges, future students, you'll certainly have over 50% of the children that will be defined, and I think that certainly over 75% will be children who will be defined for the model of study according to the dual system. Why? Because we are not doing this because of what the market is looking for, but we are doing this because our children need to master knowledge management techniques and new technologies and new ways and skills, and they need to bring themselves to a really high level of education here in Serbia, not abroad. What is a big deal for us and the prize is that Serbia is indeed, according to the Financial Times research, one of the countries that, according to its own gauges, its system of education, its own way of economy that has managed to completely reverse over the past seven years, has shown essentially that we have potential and that we really produce this kind of highly educated staff, regardless of what area we are talking about. I'm surprised at the situation where we now have so much resistance to this kind of education model. Because all developed economies, not only Germany, but, let's say, France has, Switzerland, these models of education. I'll just tell you that according to the data shown in the public sector, which is represented in France, we're not going to take Germany, because you're very allergic when we talk about Germany, after all, they're a country that has 83 million inhabitants, a big state, big systems and they're much easier to produce high growth rates, because they have their developed economy, but we're talking about France. So, big state-owned companies, like, for example. The Elektroprivreda France has more than 2.5 000 employees who have an obligation to have a number of dual-educated students among employees, who show that this must be a minimum of 5%. So we haven't gotten to those stages yet. When we produce as a state a number of students, which will show that they have really the skills that public enterprises are looking for, such a highly educated fit, it will show that it is, for example, in the "Electro-priority of France", according to the 2016 data, employed 6,000 dual students, and that there are 5,500 engineers who are their mentors. Therefore, the models the EU is giving at this time to produce experts of highly sophisticated human resources, to simply catch up with the fourth industrial revolution, are the need, both for the Republic of Serbia and for all countries in the region, both the countries and the EU and the east and the West. Serbia is doing exactly the job that many countries in the region did not recognise, did not recognise as a developmental chance of their own, but Mr. Aleksandar Vukic recognized it and in time started this process and therefore should really be supported, regardless of which you may now disagree with that policy, regardless of what you may see as some other way in which these results may be achieved, but all research has shown, in all developed economies, that this is not possible. There's no other way, it's this time that we have now. That is why I am really sorry that somewhere in public you will view this whole topic as something that is not a good model for Serbia's development, as a dual system of education in higher education. We think that really this topic has shown that based on the introduction of dual education in high school there are results and we are sure that, after the first four years, we will have really high rates of growth with children who will end up in this system of their high school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60522	Thank you, colleague Tomic. The word has the People's Messenger Natasha Sp. Jovanovic, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60523	Mr. Milicevic, they have been injured. 107th and 161, dignity of the Assembly. You should have reacted because the MPs of the SRS with reasonable reasons submitted these amendments. Whether anyone understands or doesn't understand it is our right. Comparing the SRS in this sense to anyone else is at least pointless. Secondly, since I am a folk MP who comes from Kragujevac, I can't really understand it, and it humiliates the Assembly and its dignity, as if there are some ignorant people sitting here who don't know anything, that someone really thinks that the plant "Fiat Chrysler Cars Serbia", is called the Serbian factory. This guy's either funny or he doesn't know anything. It is true that the state of Serbia has 33% of the shares in the factory, but it is a majority factory, Mr. Djordjevic, you know it, the Italian corporations that have the same similar relationship in Bursa, Turkey, where the car "fiyat tipo" limousine is produced, unlike this "fiyate 500l" that goes into failure, because "fiyat typeo" is sold in 500,000 units, and the Kragujevat "fijat 500l" this year, poor 56,000 units in less than 100 days. Since you, Mr. Djordjevic, are expected to explain this to the MPs, the minister whose portfolio is the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund, you are required to say, although you cannot, even though you know the secret provisions of the contract, that the "Fiat" cars, or "Fiat Chrysler" Serbia, are not paying a single dinar of taxes and contributions to the budget of the Republic of Serbia. The exports that are praised this year were so poor this year because of so little car production and the layoffs before that by nearly 2,000 workers. On the other hand, in 2018, the Government of the Republic of Serbia added 2.75 billion dinars, aside from those billions and 300m euros, to the "Fiyat", which I repeat again, paid zero dinars of taxes and contributions to workers employed in the budget, as such is the secretion of the contract. We are now in a situation that "Fiat Chrysler Cars Serbia" from someone who is due to pay the state to Serbia, as it has become a net beneficiary of the Republic of Serbia's budget from the city of Kragujevac in the infrastructure of almost 200m euros, from Serbia's billion and 100m euros. That's the whole truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60524	I thank my colleague Jovanovic. I have to explain, you pointed out a member of the 107th violation of the National Assembly's dignity and 161. I don't think that the SNS colleagues and colleagues in a negative context wanted to compare the SRS, on the contrary, I think that we had a constructive debate and I allowed, indeed, that we have a constructive debate and above all, a reasoned debate where I didn't, as far as I realized in politics and politics. Article 161 is the procedure for the submission of amendments. You know what, we're having an ongoing discussion on details, and I'm not really denying anyone the right to participate in this debate in accordance with the time provided for by the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. From what I understand, you don't want the National Assembly to plead. Thank you. The word comes first from a proposing representative, Minister Zoran Djordjevic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60525	Thank you. I have to react because what you said to your colleague doesn't have a foothold at all and it's not true at all. In order to inform the public, no one in Serbia who works in accordance with the law must pay taxes and contributions, so that the same employees of the "Fiat" must pay taxes and contributions. After all, what you said would lead to the error of workers working there to have the impression that they may not have been paid taxes and contributions during some period. Any worker in the Republic of Serbia can now check through a mobile application for payment of health care, and an application will be set up very soon where he will be able to check his pension. We closely monitor any payments and any illogicalities, cross-reference data and PIO Fund with the Central Register and react every time there is any illogicality, so that the labour inspection comes out on the spot. We did not have any objection to the work of the Fiata, nor to the workers, nor to any taxes and contributions not paid, so I ask you only to recapitulate this, that there is no violation of the law, and only to specify all taxes and contributions are paid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60526	I thank the ministers. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: Replica. ) You have a basis for replication, the minister spoke directly to you. You think you're being misread. Here, you have a basis for replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60527	Mr. Minister, so we're going to play here too, right, cat and mouse, as you say, because what you're doing by giving "Fiat" into the budget, and then they're coming back with taxes and contributions, just work if they weren't paid, of course, would have been a big scandal, including the people of the factory union, Mr. Mihajlović and his associates, would have been in front of your Ministry by now. But the way it's done, you didn't give me that answer, because the state of Serbia is covering exactly what I just said 2.75 billion just last year, giving additional subsidies to "Fiita," and they return by paying taxes and contributions to the Serbian budget, because of course, the law must be respected and no one can break it, we advocate that every month for a month they pay and contribute, which is what they didn't know was also explaining Sinisha Mali, to my direct question multiple times and MPs of the SRS. Then it is pointless for you to step up to defend one project, which Dinkic brought here because of his personal interest, picked up and raised his tail and fled, means, without being processed for everything he did before, and then for this disaster that the Serbian government has to pull on its back, as far as we can see. They say there will be someone by the decision "Fiat Kraler" car, SUV model new 2020 and 2021 in my native Kragujevac. This requires additional investment. And then there's the question again, and who's gonna pay for it? Turkey's Ubursian company has defined to invest 225 newm euros for a redesigned Fiata tipo model, and I can understand that, an economically justified reason. You know, if you planned, like they did, to produce half a million units, and they did, if 370,000 Fiata tipo comes out on the market, and it is, so it's normal to invest extra money. Why do we, Mr. Minister, if that's what they're asking us for a new contract to invest the new 225 million, now that we draw the line like this and see that we're in a huge loss, and only by using our workforce. She said a colleague earlier -- yes, they're engineers, and how many of them were out of work and couldn't find it. Not only did they leave two years ago, fired those workers, but she left over 60 of the Fiat Co-operatives. It's a devastating fact.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60528	Thank you. The word has a proposing representative, Minister Zoran Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60529	You know, when I listen to you, it seems pretty simple how you explain it. We give, so there's a payoff somewhere, so it goes into the budget. You yourself know that money is not colored, first. Secondly, if we are already coming to any subsidy, the Fiat is not a subsidy company and it is now unique on the Serbian market, but we, as you know, are also the Development Fund and we at the Ministry and Ministry of Economy, are very careful to take care of who we give money to and unlike some of the earlier times, that money returns multiple times. It's important for us to maintain economic activity, and it's important that people keep their jobs. Of course, there's been a criticism of the "Fiatom" from the very beginning. Perhaps those who made the deal at the time did not make it the happiest, but the government of the Republic of Serbia is taking care of it now and it is very important that the Fiat stay in Serbia. It's very important to have new investments, to make new models, to develop small and medium-sized enterprises, which, if I'm not mistaken, some figure that stands in my head is that some 10,000 people depend indirectly on the Fiat, so that their companies, small and medium-sized, work directly for the Fiat. So, if we're watching "Fiat" alone, it's not that bad for us alone, it's so bad for us, if we lose that job. What is important to us is that investments such as investment, such as "The Iron" Smederevo or such as Bor, or there will be some future investments on companies and companies that were at the very edge of the collapse and managed to get out, to do a positive job now and to contribute to our GDP and exports. It is important for us to continue with such a trend in Serbia. It is also important to develop small and medium-sized enterprises. These small and medium-sized enterprises are important to develop where we bring big investors, so that they have support and that through the employment of people in small and medium-sized enterprises they actually raise employment in our country. I agree with you that you may need to think about how and how to get into some projects more carefully, but what I want to convince you, that we are now not going in as easily as we used to, and that we are looking very carefully at who is offering, who is offering what kind of project and what kind of program is entering and what is the result of this programme at some long-term level. With such programmes and with such development and with such investment and with such subsidies, the government of the Republic of Serbia is now working. It's the only way companies can get a grant from the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60530	I thank Minister Djordjevic. Comrade Jovanovic, would you like a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60531	Mr. Minister, I speak very seriously and responsibly in terms of numbers and facts. Is it normal for you, you are the Minister of Labour and Employment, if someone is constantly employed in a factory, anywhere in Serbia, is it a private company, this one who came as a foreign investor, that a man works full-time all year? Is it normal for someone to work all year long, the total number of working days a year, is that normal? For one, apparently a factory that works successfully? That's how it's supposed to be. And in a disaster-experienced factory, as the Fiat has experienced in total, we'll see by the end of this year, I don't think there's any 118, 120 working days, maybe now a little more, because there's been this collective vacation. I'm telling you this responsibly because among my acquaintances, friends, neighbors, there are a lot of employees, with a high-level professional qualification who work in that company. You and I are really surprised, the first minister to say -- I haven't heard it from Alexander Vukic, he even said the opposite -- "Fiat" has to stay in Serbia. No, he didn't say that. He said he was waiting for this contract to expire, which Dinkic signed, that he could not and that he is aware that they are taking huge money from the state, but that we have found such a situation that the state has to respect, because it would experience major consequences due to non-compliance with the contract and that an alternative solution may be sought to take over a factory in Kragujevac under more favourable conditions with a model that will be acceptable for both domestic and foreign markets. The simple fact that the factory last year registered minimal export growth or, compared to the previous one that was a disaster, is enough to tell you that they are not successful in their business. We would all like that in a city that has given so much to a foreign company, and it is infrastructure, before that they have been removed, the entire Zastava plants destroyed, which we don't know where they ended up with, in fact we know that Djelic and this company Mafia Dinkic, have drowned and wanted to sell to Esmark after that the Buddha why "Gelezar Smederevo", we stopped it. I say, we, with our appeal and press conferences, and then thank God the Chinese came. So we need to look for such strategic investors as the Chinese company that took over "The Iron", such as other companies, who do not want to use the pain of Serbian citizens, and above all the citizens of Kragujevac and the citizens of the "Fiyat" and their co-operatives want to work full-time and to have all 12 months in a year of full pay, not to be sent, without knowing when it will happen, on forced vacations and receiving some misery and not having to eat and live normally and provide a better life for their children.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60532	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. First in line, Prime Minister Zoran Djordjevic's representative, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60533	I disagree with you. I have to tell you, you're from Kragujevac, and you know for yourself that our flag that used to produce in that place was based on Fiat's technology. That the people who were indirectly bound, who were producers of the semi-product that the flag was embezzling, and now being built by the Fiat, are dependent companies from the Fiat. I am for "Fiat" to stay, I am for "Fiat" to continue working there. We need to talk to the "Fiat", we need to animated them and they need to start producing more, we need the "Fiat" to live there. I'm sure we can do something, when we've done it with one "The Iron" we'll do it with Bora, but most importantly, it's going to be a clear message to people there. So when you talk about another investor coming in and you say that other cars should be produced, it indirectly says that all those who are subcontractors there and some dependent companies for Fiat will have to be shut down or overqualified for other cars. I'm not up for it. I am in favour of them continuing to work, because these indirect companies for Fiat will be the best way to move easily to this new technology and continue to support the "Fiat" in Kragujevac.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60534	Thank you. Comrade Jovanovic, would you like a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60535	We're not for this, and you've set a fine example for both Bor and Smeder. So on the world market, the car industry has companies that are possible and potential buyers of what the Fiat has been doing in our city so far. A contract that expires, and a condition with a new contract, with a new 220 or already how much, I really can't say that, that's the word expert for a new model, would really be a complete loss for this country. Imagine, 220m euros, how much you give for something that's uncertain for the future, who's going to provide us with Mr. Minister, you say - I'm up for it. This 500L doesn't have a pass. You can do as you wish to drill into your breasts, not on your home, not on the foreign market, that car did not justify what Dinkic and Djelic promised with him and the whole bulument that brought such a project to Serbia. I know very well how the factory used to be. After all, my first working day is in the Zastava car factory in the Zastava impeks export sector back in 1988. I'm aware of that, as we advocated before the war and before the sanctions, that this factory should be sold even if, as they say, for a single dollar, that someone wanted to come and take over. But these new technologies and what Fiat is trying to do in the race with many others who have long ago these models, that level, and classes and those price heights, will simply never be able to reach, and so does this "SUV" that would be made, it's that jeep car. With such a drive you would experience, I'm sure, a failure because it would also be expensive for other competitors, and these competitors can and can only be acceptable to Serbia if the government and resolution ministers spoke to them after the end of this contract. To keep it this way, to keep them pumping money, and to keep them doing business so privilegedly. They just see it as a union employee and see everyone who lives and works there, that's something that's with a very uncertain future, and nobody wants to.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60536	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. According to the amendment, Ljiljana Malusic has a folk MP. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60537	Thank you, Chairman. Honorable ministers with co-workers from the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment should be rejected, but before I go into the light of the amendments, there have been words about where the minister is. The minister came out for a minute and came back and there was a word about whether he had anything to say. Yeah, there's a lot of smart stuff to say, because the doctor is science and not just him, but in the government, we have a lot of doctors in science. There are very educated people sitting here, so you should listen to each other. I respect everyone's opinion, and now you'll hear mine. The point of the whole story is that the dual model isn't mandatory, it's a possibility, so that's a possibility. Students can choose whether to study classically and have the possibility of dual education, or a dual model of study. What does that mean? Good deal between the employer and the higher education facility. That's the point. If we have a good example of Germany's practices with the best economy in Europe, a good example of the practice of Switzerland, France, so we don't prescribe them, but we just apply the models that suit us. Today in Serbia, we have a hyperproduction of professions. That's not good. Let's just remember in 2012 we had 27% unemployment. Thanks to education reform, we have, today, this very dual education, an enormously smaller percentage of children who are on the bureau. We hired 27, now 11 unemployed, 16% of people, more than 250,000 people. So what we're doing is good. This is a good example of practice. If Germany has succeeded, why not Serbia as well. We had GDP in 2012, minus three and a half, now we have plus three and a half in the last six months alone plus four. That's how it works. I am to refuse this amendment, and I am sure that the results will show very quickly that we were right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60538	Thank you, colleague Malusic. Comrade Mircic, do you want a replica as an amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60539	Here is obviously the basic motive for refusing to accept amendments because it does not come from a party that is majority and which here explains the refusal of amendments and their interesting opinion coincides with the government's opinion. I haven't heard from their coalition partners, because they haven't had a chance to report, and they're in a smaller number. It would be interesting what they think of these amendments. What's the point here? Here is the point of trying to praise or praise the current government that, in some ways, by replacing the thesis, it goes beyond this fact that this is very important, as a reform of education, very important for the future of this society. There are other replacements here. For example, a colleague who spoke and compared "Zelezar Smederevo", product standardisation and "Smederevo Irons" and customs introduced for the Russian Federation. That's two different things. The European Union regulates competitiveness by protecting its products in this way, because those who produce, such as the flag, cannot export those products because these products belong to EU countries. When it comes to "Smederevo Iron", then, respected colleagues, it is about standardisation, because Chinese products must be in line with Europe's standards and that is the problem. It's not the same thing. There is no need to give in, because Chinese products, or what China is doing in "Smederevo Irons" and how it is better quality and much better quality than ironworks in Europe and even more rigorous standards that the People's Republic of China has in steel production, in iron production, than EU standards. It's interesting one thing, when you listen to this explanation of not accepting amendments, simply, you can't believe that we live in such wealth, in such a million, so it goes all the way to say that in production, say, the automotive industry of Serbia has a great benefit or, as it is true, you would suffer great damage, God forbid, co-operatives who work for the car factory "Fiat". People, in Serbia, are only produced for the needs of the Fiat crane and nothing more. That's all it's made, and it's some factory in Paracino. Are you aware that you deceive the public with such stories what a pity it would be for cooperatives? No co-operatives, co-operatives are from Slovenia, co-operatives are from Croatia, co-operatives are from Italy and other countries, no co-operatives, except for those who produce this crane, a handlifter for the car "fijat". It's another additional argument where we want to warn you, don't lose sight of the faults you're criticizing.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60540	Thank you, colleague Mircic. Comrade Malusic, you wanted a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60541	Thank you. I've just potentiated my profession's hyperproduction. I'm a graduate sociologist. When I graduated, I couldn't get a job, it was old Yugoslavia, it was a hyperproduction of archaeologists, historians, psychologists, so we shouldn't go to it, so now there's this new model. Today we're talking about a very constructive law where children can choose. It's nice to be educated, my distinguished colleague will say, because education is really part of culture, culture is a way of life. It's nice to talk about this pay phone. We need to hear something from us, we can't be like getting off the mountain, but the point is that we support ourselves, we work. I was overqualified because I couldn't get a job, not just me, thousands of people from my generation, and you all know it well. So the point is, this law comes to life, that students can choose. It's very important that someone study and practice. Believe me, it's very important. Don't waste your time, don't waste your money. When you enter to work with the employer, you are a semi-complete product. We need a lot of money for education now. Someone said it was a bad system. Well, it was a bad system, that's why we're modifying it, we're fixing it, so we're reforming education, first dual education in high schools, which has brought extraordinary results and a high percentage of employment, and now in colleges. I repeat again, the dual model is not mandatory, but represents the possibility, the choice, that's the point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60542	Thank you, colleague Malusic. According to the amendment, the People's MP, Marjana Marash. Here you go, colleague Marash.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60543	Thank you, Chairman. Allow me to repeat my view of the SPS and what Professor Prosecution stated as an authorised representative. Zarko Obradovic. The adoption of this law for us from the SPS is a continuation of the reform in education, which is also made by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the competent ministry, and is a major step forward in bringing the education system closer to the needs of the labour market. The government has already taken a good step, as it has been pointed out more than once today, when the Dual Education Act was passed, when secondary education was covered. The forward step was also some of the solutions of the Law on Higher Education, above all the advice of employers, because there was then a normatively arranged presence of employers in higher education institutions, which also opened the door to strengthen labour market binding, i.e. economy and higher education. It should also not be forgotten that the problems of linking the education system and businesses of the Republic of Serbia have lasted for three decades, since the mid-80s when the economic crisis began, not to mention sanctions since 1992 and robbery privatisation since 2000. The economy of the Republic of Serbia has almost been destroyed for the past few years, thanks to the great activities of the government of the Republic of Serbia, the economy has again stepped on its feet and has now created a good basis for connecting the educational process and the labour market. The government and the ministry have called on employers to, together with higher education, educate the staff that will be needed to develop our economy. At the heart of this law is a triangle made up of student, employer and higher education institution and the main goal of the employer, i.e. a higher education institution, is that the student gets quality knowledge, ability, skills and that is the essence of the entire education system. A good balance was made in the structure of the class. The active classes are 450 hours a year for teaching, training and other forms of active teaching, and 450 hours for learning through work. As SPS, we welcome this model of dual education both in secondary and higher education, for the simple reason that our students and students were getting good theoretical knowledge, more than well, appreciated knowledge and beyond our country's borders, but what they lacked may have been part of a practical teaching. At exercises and in practical training, perhaps one student or one student had the opportunity to acquire some practical skills, the others were observers. When you want to get a job, you get a degree, then every employer asks you for experience, asks if you did a traineeship, passed a professional exam, passed a state exam, or if you passed a judicial exam. Everyone wants to get both educated and knowledgeable. For this reason, I think this model that's being introduced will help our students to get to work more easily and prevent the outflow of our young people beyond the borders of the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60544	Thank you, colleague Marash. The word has a folk letter from Stefan Miladanovic. Here you go, colleague Miladanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60545	Thank you, colleague Milicevic. I will begin my discussion first of all with congratulations to our team. We had a chance to watch this game during this break, and I believe that thanks to the result and tones in this room after the break, something more acceptable. I must admit that the pleasure of taking part in this debate has long since had a constructive discussion and confrontation, I can say, two concepts. When it comes to the law itself, by listening to my colleagues, I must admit that almost everything my colleague Vladimir Orlic has said is the essence of this law and I would support, in fact he has engineeringly explained exactly what dual education is and what it will represent when it comes to higher education. When it comes to "Fiat", it has been mentioned several times, and I must admit that I qualify it as "Dinkic's work" and I hope that the issue of "Fiata" will be solved. Here, the minister said the government is ready to talk to the Fijata representatives so that it does not leave the country, as most not only citizens, but also entities of different companies work for the Fiat and depend on the Fijata itself. The law itself on the model of dual education in higher education institutions is something which is a step forward, it will bring the needs of the market and the education system in the Republic of Serbia, that was necessary, and that was also discussed by the representative of the parliamentary group, Prof. Zarko Obradović, and here is her colleague Marjana Maras, mentioned, we literally had a problem 30 years ago to adapt our needs to the education system. This model will require one systematic approach, i.e. joint planning based on analysis and evaluation not only of institutes and educational institutions, but also of economy at all. Through this model, dual students will be able to master some practical knowledge that will be applicable to them in career work but also to learn in the right way what is really what they study and whether they really chose the right profession for themselves. It happened that students opted for technical, natural-technical sciences and that during their studies they realized that it wasn't really what they wanted to do. There are also practices in Scandinavian countries that individual universities, before enroling students, give students an opportunity to learn about what the nature of the work they are supposed to do after graduation. For us, therefore, as a parliamentary group, is something that is a newspaper and needs both our education system and the development of the economy. I think it will help boost the overall environment in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60546	Thank you, colleague Miladanovic. The word has a national letter from Studenka Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60547	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will take this opportunity on the subject of education to say that there is one good thing coming from Bor, and that is that the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development has adopted our proposal on a network of elementary schools in our territory. This actually means that there is no need to close objects or combine them as well as to reduce the number of persons employed in education in Bor. The only newspaper in this network is to open a separate department of the Borska Music School "Miodrag Vasiljevic" in the municipality of Bolec. Given that the city of Bor meets all the conditions of the ministry that are necessary to retain all primary schools in the territory of the city, this network will be active by 2023. On this occasion, I would like to thank Minister Sarčević and the Ministry of Enlightenment for supporting our local community and recommend that you always have good partners in us to apply together what the Government of the Republic of Serbia is carrying out and has positive effects on our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60548	I thank my colleague Kovacevic. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60549	Thank you, Vice President. Dear ministers with associates, i.e. representatives of the ministry, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, gave us much warm support for this bill, which is in any case the general position of the SPS. Given not only our participation in the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but also a significant contribution to all that is meant as a quality proposal of the law, we find our support and that unreserved. In this case, I want to point out something that has not been pointed out so far, and that is how to eliminate prejudice when it comes to dual education and when it comes to this bill that we are discussing today. Why prejudice? On the one hand, there are resistances that do not have some factual basis on the other, either in day-political negotiations, and yet there is a third dimension of ignorance or lack of knowledge about the problem we are talking about. I purposely pointed out today, not just for local and patriotic reasons, but because I felt it was necessary for the citizens to know that this was not a newspaper. We had dual education in SFRY. Užice was the first local self-government, the first municipality to have dual education through the School of Students in the economy. At that time, this School of Students in the Economy was recognized by the SUP abbreviations. A very similar model, a very similar principle, very similar solutions, normative solutions when it comes to the professional training of students in the economy existed and then, somewhere, they are even complementary to the norms contained in the bill that we are discussing today. But what is the essence? I repeat what I said today, that this dual education would make sense is that there needs to be a strong economic background. The economic background implies strong companies, therefore, which, according to all their references and professional and financial and productive, can, however, determine dual education in terms of obtaining young people who, by means of professional training, would naturally, under one education, under two professional profiles and under three become eventually, which is the consequence, useful and member of the social community, while at the same time being needed in that company in order to modernise the production process, technologically improve, etc. What does that mean? That means we'll keep young people where we want to keep them. I say again one percent that is really scary, and today I mention it, that in Užica in the last ten years of the total number of students who go to study the percentage of return to their city is 2%. Two percent goes back to their town. What does that mean? It means the death of a local self-government, and demographically, it's very dangerous. Then why should dual education be affirmed? Someone here listed something important, and it is important to point out that it is the principle of volunteering, therefore, that it is a voluntary way of studying or education, or professional training. On the other hand, all the local self-government needs to do is precisely acquire investors, but the acquisition of investors involves obtaining investors in a healthy manner. This means that all companies that, by their capacity, can adapt to dual education by their potential to simultaneously raise those resources that this dual education can accelerate. They're everywhere and not just in my Užica, they're all over Serbia. It is important to influence this, and we have mentioned "Fiat", and "Fiat" may be one of the companies that has a perspective, no matter how much we have challenged it or not, but we have so many other capacities, so many other companies that can really get a lot from one side of the concept, on the other hand, to get a lot, and most will get those who opted for the principle of volunteering for dual education. Therefore, the SPS has no single reason not to support such a concept of the education system or the educational process. Therefore, the SPS as a responsible part of the government of the Republic of Serbia wants the Republic of Serbia to be classified in the order of all those EC countries through this concept of the educational process and how large benefits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60550	Replica, People's Parliament of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60551	The replica refers to the part of the presentation when a colleague here said that some MPs, and the only MPs who are against this bill are MPs of the SRS, this law and this debate are used for daily-political purposes. So, we Serbian radicals don't use anything for day-to-day policy purposes, on the contrary, we're known to perform in principle, so as much as it costs us at a certain point in time, both with voters and with citizens. We've never bended as the wind blows, it's simply our view that this bill is bad, that we don't need dual education, that this law doesn't oblige anyone. We are also talking about this in principle, we are talking about it by amendments and we represent our position, I repeat as a principled attitude of the SRS and as our principled attitude towards education that is today in Serbia, we find, unfortunately, poor, and we would be happy to share your euphoria, the euphoria of the congregation's majority to achieve something epochal by this law. Not even close to that, of course, because this law isn't going to achieve a part of what's being said here, especially if someone gets a job, that someone's going to learn something, that someone's going to earn something. You make this law one more of the concessions you pay these foreigners to come to Serbia, and as much as you represent it as something that I don't know how well, unfortunately, the practice shows that it's not exactly like that and that in everything we've given them so far, they're just still short of giving them young students, working for them, for some church girl they might have mercy on paying them, or after a month or two days they'll tell them, because the law allows them - well, we won't work with you anymore, go look for another employer, and then the university has to find a new employer, or they won't, but they can't if they want to, and then there at the university they say -- well, we won't, we're done with our part of the job. And in the end, it'll be -- what you've been doing -- nothing, where you've been -- nowhere.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60552	Right on line, MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60553	I thank you, Chairman. Of course, in a democratic debate, we should face attitudes, of course, that in a democratic debate we should draw up the best solutions that will in any case be in the interest of those to whom the law will apply. However, there was obviously a misunderstanding or perhaps a lack of understanding, and perhaps even free to say that I was not sufficiently understood. I didn't say in any case that any of the MPs used this topic for day-to-day political purposes. I said it's used for day-to-day policy purposes. It's something that's safe and can be checked. Secondly, as far as two concepts are concerned, one concept that involves supporting dual education and another concept that leaves out the support when it comes to dual education and the process of education - these are two legitimate approaches. We in the SPS parliamentary group don't mind someone putting out another kind of argument that will be, in any case, in its own weight of such a nature to convince us that what we advocate is not true. However, in the course of the debate so far, we in the SPS parliamentary group cannot accept the argument without sufficient weight, without sufficient factual justification, that this concept that the government has affirmed through the draft law we are discussing is bad. On the contrary, we think he's good, we think he should be supported. I won't repeat the arguments I made. I just said that this isn't a newspaper, that we didn't invent hot water, that this is present in other education systems of other countries, that we had it in SFRY, that it wasn't bad then, but we also had a strong economy. When I mentioned Užice, I'll mention that at that time when there was a dual education, we had a copper, giant, aluminium cylinder, giants, First Partizan, which had 12 joint working organisations, many other economic resources that had the opportunity to engage, fit in a dual education that had practically produced effects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60554	Thank you. The word is from a colleague named Vesna Ivković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60555	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers with associates, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, I also mentioned this in the principle debate, dual education in secondary and high schools is one of the priorities of the government of the Republic of Serbia as part of a priority goal - education for the 21st century. The proposal for a dual model of higher education education provides a legal framework that is flexible and can be applied depending on the needs of higher education institutions offering academic and vocational education and are interested in their students' knowledge acquired in higher education institutions during the course of the study through work which will and how to be valued. It has been said here several times that the dual model is not mandatory, but represents the possibility of higher education institutions, and employers are able to participate in the education of their potential employees and carry out the selection of candidates. After all, time will show, as it has shown for dual high school education, that it is also a good way of schooling. Higher education institutions will monitor the career development of students, monitor motivation and satisfaction, both students and employers. The main objective of the dual model study is to acquire, improve knowledge, skills and skills according to the study programme and qualification standard. And, which is also no less important, this work, I will repeat, will be valued. Students who complete double-model studies, given the great practical experience that will be gained in the acquired theoretical knowledge, will increase their competitiveness on the labour market and will have a better chance of employment, both in employers who have received practical training and others from the same work. What I would point out is that after the completion of the higher education studies by dual model, employers in the work relations contests will not have to condition candidates to have a certain working experience, because they will already have the opportunity to convince themselves of their expertise, especially those candidates who have performed practical courses with them. Because applying practical teaching in theory is something that fully qualify one who completes a certain higher education institution, or direction, especially from medical sciences, and that is the direction that connects theory and practice. So, as far as the SPS parliamentary group is concerned, we will vote in favour of these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60556	Thank you. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Perry, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60557	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, Article 8, that is, the amendment we have submitted best shows our relationship and attitude towards a dual education system in higher education organisations, or institutions. There was a kind of polarization here, so the MPs of the SRS made arguments and shortcomings of this system, and MPs of the ruling coalition talked more about what's good. I'm absolutely sure, I thought he was serious about this bill, Mrs. Grujic. I don't mean anything wrong here, but I'm pretty sure she had more access to the criticism of this law than many of the MPs who spoke today. We are the people's representatives, we are not representatives of the government, and to help the government, in this case the competent ministry, it is the Ministry of Education, we should give some arguments both for and against. I've heard a statement that I don't believe anyone is ready to say, like, dual education in high schools has produced fantastic results. In addition to the fact that the minister presented here after years of enrolment in dual education in high schools, we have no other information. It's early to have it and to expect it. And then how are we going to expect some fantastic results here? You know when a dual education system gets its application and somehow comes to life in our practice, when at that time the Prime Minister, Alexander Vukic, seems to me from Finland, although I'm not quite sure, is back and remembers the example that in Serbia children don't know what a plumber is. He even took some examples out of his house and said - let's go now with a dual education system. And then it goes like that, put into 15th gear. Is that normal? I don't think so. This is Professor Atlagic. Why were you, Professor Atlagic, admitted to calling a regular professor at a high school facility where you were a lecturer? So you can educate the students. Who should be the center of attention in the education system? Students. Then higher education institutions go and then eventually and in this dual education system should be these private companies or any companies that need to co-operate with higher education institutions to get better quality personnel. Someone said the Chamber of Commerce has nothing to expect, and I think the Chamber of Commerce might find a good application here, by listening, to respect the needs of the economy. I remember when the Minister of Education was Mr. Zarko Obradovic, when they said it was between 2008 and 2012, then I was a member of the Committee on Science, Education - give us the staff that would fit the economy, he said - give me the need for economics. There's a philosophical thought in this one, a philosophical depth, we don't know, we're society yet, not after the state of history, but by the development of democracy, by respecting certain things, we seem to be at the beginning, and then we need to respect some things that we know what we're talking about. Why do we stand up and argue, make some arguments here? Because of the system. Here, now that I give you an example of a group of excellent students from the Faculty of Engineering from Novi Sad achieved fantastic results in the European competition. Do you know that he may not have been even the leader of the team, but one of the participants, Željir Trisic, was collecting on a voluntary basis money to go to the competition there? If President Vukic had known by any chance, he would have said, "I'll give the money." I know that's how it would be, but it's not about someone giving money, it's about having a system -- you make a score, it's about doing it. In this way we motivate both students and students, and even employees of higher education organizations. That's what we're missing. Try to do something about it, and then we'll be happy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60558	By amendment, MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60559	Dear Vice President, since my colleague called me, let's try to explain. Respecting counterpart Sreto Periæ as an MP who is extremely well following the agenda of the Assembly, I still have some things to explain. I'm at the beginning of today's session, but even on the first day we talked about what this is about. So now the applicable law, before we vote this, on higher education, has made it possible to co-operate between the economy, on the one hand, and higher education institutions, on the other hand. What philosophers would say - between the world of work and the world of learning. This model exists even now, but this law provides, in fact, one of the models of dual education where practical training, work or practice is done with the employer and is an integral part of the study programme. I'll be in social science, which will give our colleagues a hard time. Professor, I apologize. For example, we'll take Latin paleography, so the professor at the Faculty of Philosophy when he's working Beneventan or capital, an old Roman letter, will go... Or Beneventana, must also in the archives of archivists know it. The course will be held in theoretical terms at the university, and in practice in the archives. Do we have that now? We have in some countries. That's why we don't have finished, in practical terms, paleographers, so we don't have numismatics, we go to history, so archaeologists etc. So, when the professor of history finishes, he gets finished, let's say, the expert worker can go straight to the archive and read the old Latin letter, the old Cyrillic letter, etc. Do we have that in the right sense today? Very hard. So it's one of the models, and so can that model you said. That study with work we have now. Now, as for that fellow Jovanovic, we used to have that. I ran a high school center, 5,000 students, and I just had this situation, 18 orientations, and among them, high school, economic school, teachers at school. It's true, welders at school, but they had to have equipment. Tokar’s machines, if they are tokars, if the welders have other tools, etc., but one part of it was a practical course in the factory. We had a teacher's practical class. That's it. That model is still there today. It's not a question. This is the second model, one of the choices where we get it done. Today our economy isn't so strong, you know, and then we get tokar, and it doesn't know on the tokar's machine. That's the point of the problem. So, dual education is where practice, training becomes an integral part of the study program and is not only performed at the engineering college, but also in the company, and it requires a lot of learning to us daily, and me, and students, regardless of age, etc. So that's the point. That's why we don't have paleographers. If you want, we don't have much Cyrillic, we don't have Latin, we don't have numismatics, we have heraldists, we have historical metrology, we have heraldics, we have vexiology. A lot of students don't even know what it is, I really have to say it. Some colleges know, and some people make fun of it, and if they knew vexiology, then they'd know what that coat of arms is, what the flag is, and they'd know what the chess field is, and what the two-headed eagle is in us and what period the chess field at the Croats used, so they wouldn't say just from the NDH, but from the 9th century. In a practical sense, the first time the Church of St. Donat in Zadar. Well, they're taking students there or at our place in monasteries. Well, we'd see that the two-headed eagle is not with two heads, but two doors, but two heads, and one neck Serbian, not limited until the 15th century. From the 15th century to the 20th, we get a different shape. It's the influence of the Illyrian so-called. Heraldics. Well, you see, then our students would know. Does everyone know that today? Well, judge, gentlemen, professors. That's why we have a problem. We'll see that the chess room during NDH is not every Ustasha, because the Ustashas put the "in" sign. The communists came and put on a five-pointer, but not with a sickle and a hammer, these are the ones who chase, but anti-fascist and later we don't have her. The symbols should be studied through history. Is one, another field. Or, when a part of the Croat sees a two-headed eagle, he gets angry. He's Serbian. It was formed until the 15th century. Now someone will say Byzantine, but he has different characteristics. You'll ask what this is. This is from 1882. Is it real? There's no characteristics. Why is that? You know who made it - two Germans, so the Democrats are totally it, etc., so we don't go into detail. It's already a thing... That's where we're wrong about scientists. A Croat when he sees a two-headed eagle, he creeps himself out. Well, it's not a two-headed eagle, let's just say that NOB was used before, if you want it from Roman times, so it has Byzantine, so it has Roman, so it has Austrian, so it has Serbian, non-distant, but it has around its neck and tails. It's already a deeper thing and it's in the field of science to move. So to get to know things, we have to go deep. Every student of mine knows that, because we take him to the monasteries, so we say, "Here you go, and then we take a picture of him." Here, it's this Serbian non-deficient one, so we see it at Paul Shubić's Bribery Eagle Wing, so then I say let's see where he got married from now on. You know, when you go into the depths, a lot of things would get a different understanding of both us and other countries and come up with very simple things in science. Indeed, so is dual education. I hope and I am sure, what Minister Sarcevic is doing is the real thing and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but we will also have heraldists students and numismatics to know extremely well at the museum, but also at the university. Do we have a frame, that's another thing. We're going to have to work all of us, and I'm going to have to work at this age and these younger ones, for God's sakes. We have to. It's all based on work, not on story. Every day at the facility where we see each other, the few, though, but we have no other way out and then we can go to the field of science. Let politics do its part. Indeed, around the symbols here we could do for days, but it's already a matter of deeper profession. When I took the word, since I was called by some, one television, you already know which, here at one European university, my book is being used – the Implementing Programme. Science is a universal process. He's global, but he's also national. The two-headed eagle is also a national or universal, and Austrian is quite different. When you see what it's like, I see it on my coat of arms exactly which is Austrian, which is a Serbian and chess field from the 9th century to today. The White One first. When someone provokes white first or second, I disagree. We'll explain now. It's not a dispute. Whether white is first or red, you know how long before NDH was used, 700 years apart. You want me to talk to every source so we can go or double-headed eagle, from the time of Nemanic. And Lily, we're wrong here and there, he's not only from the time of the Yelen of England but from the Nemanja. Look at the trinity of the trinity, look at what it says there. I'm going to say it openly now, if anyone's going to agree that's another thing. So what this genealogy is about is saying, one of the variants, I'm not saying it's true, in science you can't really do that easily, there's absolutely no truth, if it's absolute, there's no science. Let's open up every possibility. When Nemanja visited France, at the king of France, there was a thesis that Elena was the sister of a French king and they sought German help from the French and French king, let the professor see who he was and his daughter married to Nemanja. It's one of the versions, I'm not saying it's absolutely true, but the genealogy version says at the divorce when they split up, but the Serbs were looking for French knights to help, or Nemanja, but give us back to Nemanja, not Nemanja, he was already there, but the Serbs, because the epic despot here has already done its thing, the brothers fought and told him at the divorce, and I'm saying one of the versions: "Here's this roommate," Ljiljan – roommate, they know the heraldicians what it is: "Let's part of my body become a part of your body." This symbolizes two sons, you already know which. So it's kind of lily from there, not from some others, not to go into the depths. I'd like scientists to cross all versions, but in other places, not here, because the other side says right away that I'm being abused. Did we write about this? Of course we are. What I'm telling you is written by others, not exactly about this, this is about the Tronog genealogy. Here, he's the source, so some colleagues go and see. I'm not saying it's absolutely true, etc. So we need to know the vertical well, and in heraldic this is very important, those who are looking at me now, in heraldics with the marriage and marriage ties of a woman's coat of arms, coming to the central place of her husband. I now claim, I know that I will be challenged and challenged, and I have written a paper on it, let it be seen with Pavel Šubić where the wing came from, version. Work's out. My critic teachers, so he's out. I'm not saying 100% that's the version, but he's a minor, in my opinion. Where married and married relationships came from, you know who he married, that I don't go into detail now, because I'm going to get a terrible criticism, we know that one of the daughters of King Milutin was married to Shubic Bribirsky. You ask me to speak now, this is a matter of science, gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament. I wrote about it and I'm glad that this one came out, I didn't say 100%. I picked up the sources and left the possibility, which means that then the unity of the Christian world existed. That's the point. If we don't go deep now, other historians will have their own thesis. This is the first time in a magazine, and when we went deep, they would carry out a pedagogy of peace in the Balkans and come up with very interesting data, if they took textbooks from the 19th century that existed in Serbia and saw and quoted etc. So, not to go into the deeper history of the Old Age, because I'm going to get terrible criticism, but I'm not afraid of criticism, scientific, political, or anything else. I apologize in that part. In dual education, this is important, I was really undermining it, who's benefiting, that's important? Higher education institutions, employers, students, the Chamber of Commerce and the state of Serbia, this is also important for the state of Serbia, because we are conducting a process of accelerated modernisation of the Republic of Serbia. Now the critics will say - it's not true. Well, it is, and the process of education is an accelerated modernisation. They say some don't, so we're already in the field of automation in a lot of things. A lot of people can't figure that out. We've got genius students. Do we have a genius professor? We do, of course. I was talking about what universities in the past gave. Not all of them, exactly. Some gave in World War I, some more, some less. Some professors of their lives, but 35% of Belgrade University students. So, I know that I'm going to get some criticism, but you see, I'm going to end up with Pestalocium, my fellow professors know who the Pestalos are, and I'm going to end up like this -- the enthusiasm that I'm going to be able to start my hands, it's given me so much strength to climb up to the highest Alps, that I can get started, thank you very much, raising our children.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60560	Right on line, MP Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60561	Professor Atlagic, it is not 12th September 2019 or the summer of the Lord, as you would say, your day. You're in the world known as heraldic, and it's okay, I've learned some things from you now, but I couldn't see from your explanation, nor am I clear from this proposal for a dual model education in the high system will anyone who becomes a graduate lawyer be able to be a judge? Will it be attributed to him that he also passed a judicial exam, and these are also shortcomings and shortcomings that we could see and say – we need a dual system of education, because graduates cannot become judges. So here and here. I don't even know that someone who got medical degree and became a doctor has become a specialist. It's just not possible. I don't think that's normal. We seem to be asking our students and students now to be our little ones, to mature too much before it's by the nature of the organism normal and possible. Progress should exist. You said, "Are we good professors?" We've got great teachers at every level of education, starting from teachers to university professors. How are our students? Fantastic. Starting with those who enroll in preschool, so first grade, etc., but you could read it, yesterday it was in the press, it seems to me that some of the students, unfortunately, have and do not know the real name of their parents. Now that's not a problem either, kids like each other, a little spoiled, all that's possible, so counterpart Nedjo Jovanovic said that he only returned to Uzice 2% after finishing certain colleges. How long do you think my colleague Jovanovic went back to Baja Basta, Krupanj, Ljubovija, Mali Zvornik and not to speak there in eastern Serbia? Not that no one comes back, but they take their parents. When we reform the education system, we have to keep this fact in mind, how do we fight it? I think that this country is now as much as possible, someone is going to say not enough, someone is going to say excessively, but it might not be delicious to even talk about, isolating out for population policy. Any results? There isn't. We missed two, three, four decades ago, maybe to make some moves that we had to make so we wouldn't be long behind in reforming the education system. These suggestions we have told you, and even through these amendments, we have specifically tried to put a student in this Article 8, although you are introducing a dual system of education, to put him in the centre, not that he is a sacred cow, but to put him in the centre when it comes to his ability to choose where the employer is, if the higher education institution on his list has more, that he chooses who he will be. I guess he's allowed to choose something, too, or we're going to get what our colleague Verica Radeta and Mr. Mircic told us not to scare anyone, but it's possible in practice. If it happens to us that he doesn't say, uh, I didn't choose a good employer, but what you chose, that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60562	Right on line, MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60563	Let's close the circle. I'm really trying to explain because I've done it in my life, spent it, not to say 1982. My colleagues, professors, and today businessmen around the world, former students, and there are also here in Belgrade. So the dual model is one of the models and exactly what you said, the student will choose what interests him, according to his abilities and put him as a subject. You're a smart man and you know very well who the subject is. So, student, student must otherwise be subject. Is he with everyone today? I disagree, no. I've also finished teaching and writing from pedagogy papers all over Europe, so fellow professors know that. Are all the teachers subject? Well, we saw him at the professor's, except he said two sentences, they drove him away from college. Well, what kind of teachers are we, if 300 students, 290 professors crash? And you know who I'm talking about. For years, and you should love those children, you should also love machines, in the end, that you work with, which is called, you know it well, education. We're raising kids there, so when they get on the bus, they're not going to carry a bag and push, because his employer is going to come to control it, on the other hand, or teacher, let's say so, the performer, the professor of the practical part. Is he in college now? Is he in the company now? Of course, they both control each other. My life span really consists of a student or a student being a subject. Do we all love? No, I don't. I'll tell you. I've been doing it for years, watching, controlling, having wonderful professors, wonderful teachers, especially teachers, educators, top qualitys, not those who praise television, but ally, this professor who was a mathematician, he said very well. Are they visible? Well, we're not. Well, some others are visible. They take money. They take the money and leave. These others work and are invisible, but in this model system, and the professor is visible to the results and students, guaranteeing him employment, future and advancement even, as long as he wants, the doctor of science, and his whole life. So that's the point, and it's not a problem at all. I think we understand each other completely. This is a situation where we all learn, all where we learn. We can't study with a student right now, and the professor doesn't. I run my students and my student knows how to read capital. Does everyone know that? Well, estimate, let fellow professors assess whether they know them in all colleges like that. And some people make fun of me when I say it, or the UNI, the letter of the Middle Ages. Well, how many historians can read, humanist, how much? Ah, there are those who know it, but not everyone, not everyone. I am happy to have raised my students, where they called me, right in Pristina, or Kosovo Mitrovica, who know what I'm talking about. And they're already extraordinary and regular teachers. And I left them behind. I ask my critics, so not the critics, not the critics, how many did they leave behind? Now, that's the essence of the professor, that's the essence of the professor, of the staff. And you know, some are close to yours, not yours, but strangers. I also had from your top-quality student party, top-notch. Well, you were a professor from our party, too. It's not a question. Today, one of the students is a professor at a university. You know it well, which is very successful. And today, come on, here's an open word, in Republika Srpska two of my students, very few of them who know how to read this. Whether they will continue, it depends on their activity on me, as long as I live, to help, if I'm a professor. But it's very difficult. You're a smart man, you said well, it's hard to be a teacher, but it's the hardest thing to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60564	Thank you. Comrade Bogatinovic, the SNS parliamentary group has spent the time it belongs to her, so I cannot give you my word. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 9th amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Rističević, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60565	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will first congratulate US Ambassador Kyle Scott, congratulate him on a minimal defeat from Serbia and hope that next time there will be 30 differences. We don't shoot them with laser bombs, we throw them in their baskets, knock them out, knock them out, it's not controversial. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and I'm going to have a little bit of heraldic. To me, chess is a chess box, a Ustasha symbol. It can start with a white and red field, it can be from the ninth century, I'm not slow, but for me it's a Ustasha symbol. Even Croatian five-pointer and Croatian communism for me was not communism, but mutilated Ustashism and a transitional solution from one NDH to another NDH. The fact that we Serbs were naive, so we let, Serbian communists, who were sincere communists, Croatian dishonest communists, take the entire Adriatic coast because of their leader and domination, even though they lost and were defeated in World War II. The error of Serbian communists is a delusion, but the sin of Croatian communists is that they kept the NDH all the time and waited only for the first time, which happened in the 1990s, and that fits into those British people, I don't know who, not to be allowed to create a Serbian state in the Balkans by measure and the number of Serbian people. That's the way it is for me, and no one can convince me with a nine-century Croatian chess machine. And the swastika, which no one can show for the crimes of the Nazis, is four thousand years old. In Buddhism, that sacred sign was. The cells used it. But swastika is a symbol of Nazism. And for me, chess is a symbol of the constitution, the end, the end. They can be drawn into history as much as they want, on the Bellmire, I don't know who, they're the Ustasha state, worse than the Nazi state to me. They had children's camps for Serbs. The Nazis didn't have that either. So much for heraldics. Ladies and gentlemen, this amendment speaks of career development, career leadership. Ladies and gentlemen, on dual education, if they learn this from Yugoslavia's Cosic, who himself said that their system, based on fake cross-border televisions, markets, accounts for 500m euros. It's a source of Sholak's and Gilas' wealth, selling fog. The revenues come from Serbia's subscription and advertising on the Serbian market. The revenues come true, but taxes don't pay, because they defend to do so on cross-border channels, which allegedly re-emission the programme here from Luxembourg and Ljubljana. Both regulators said it wasn't true and Luxembourg and Slovenian. If that's not true, it's all a crime. The commercials that broadcast here, and REM and RATEL don't pay for anything, while domestic television is paying for all that. The commercials they broadcast don't pay taxes. This is an income that is threatened by regular domestic channels, and nothing is paid by REM or RATEL, and those who pay all taxes and taxes are at risk of working on black. What's the Competition Protection Commission doing? It protects SBB from competition at the expense of domestic regular channels. Is this career leadership in dual education that Yugoslavia's Duke of Luxembourg will show us and teach young generations how to muddle, how to earn revenue from the sale of fog in Serbia worth 500 million, without paying taxes, even Solak has published on RTS how he is a tax payer in Switzerland, and all his income is in Serbia. So, he's pumping money in some villa on Lake Geneva to pay some tax liability, the villa has been earned from Serbian commercials on the Serbian market and Serbian subscribers for SBB. You make those revenues, you pump money across the border, and then you act successful. You leave your debts here, then Solak drives a 50m-euro "fallon" there. What's our Competition Protection Commission doing? What's REM doing? Electronic media regulators should order the SBB to shut down all false cross-border channels, which only steal from 20m to 84m euros on commercials. It's not just about advertising. This is done by CAS Media, which is a member of United Media, as well as Adria News, N1 etc. It's a system, a robbery system, a leech that sucks out capital from Serbia, incomes from Serbia and takes them to the white world. Are we gonna let that happen? They're defending it by attacking -- if we put this business at risk, then we're against freedom of the media. To prevent REM from doing its job, they are demanding that REM be divided according to the political model, to give half to the opposition i.e. Gilasu and that he can't rem, when it's complete, turn off the fake cross-border channels and cut off the steam pump. How long are we going to put up with this? Is that career leadership, Mr. Yugoslavia Cosic? Even if he calls me and doesn't call me for the last six months on his TV, I don't want to go on his TV. I'm principled, since I know what he's doing. It'd be like driving in a stolen vehicle. It is not re-emitting, it is the best proof that there is no re-emission of the programme because the transfer for the Luxembourg market was not, for their viewers, and the re-emission is being taken over at the same time. No re-emitting, it's all a crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60566	Thank you. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 15 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 16 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The National MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to Article 20 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 23 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Nikola Savic submitted to Article 28 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Saviæ.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60567	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to article 28 of this law. Otherwise, this member speaks of mentor's competences with the employer and how to train these mentors in the employer. Now, if for a moment we would ignore the fact that we are against this law, that we are SRS against this law, a mentor as a mentor is required in this law. However, the way he's trained, the way he assesses his competences is absolutely disputable. In fact, higher education institutions are given broad powers when it comes to assessing mentor's competences with the employer and their training and then, on the one hand, what our people say – cadiya sues you, cadiya judges you. It is now a question of what kind of mentors will be, if we know that individual universities, or higher education institutions, have entered the system of dual education and their interest is to have students, to have profits, etc. And they evaluate the competencies of these mentors and train them. Of course, the quality of these mentors, the mentors of the employer, will be more important to them than the quality of these mentors themselves. Some experience and practice always show that this is one of the most critical places to come and where different abuses can occur. That's why I asked my amendment to delete this member and to sort this matter out in a different way. So I didn't ask for the mentors to be abolished, because mentors are needed, but their competences and training are done in a different way.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60568	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 32nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Rističević, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60569	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I continue to ask Yugoslavia of Luxembourg if he is an expert in dual education in the field of siblings and combinations, fraud, masculine? Yugoslavia "part of the battle company", SBB, Šolak, Gilas... Is it true, Jugoslave Cosic, given that your company is minus 7.5m euros, that the revenues you make from the SBB are mostly pumped out, that they are interconnected faces, but that you, Jugoslave Cosic, who runs the "Adria News", which allegedly produces a program for N1, which goes to Luxembourg, so across Ljubljana, arrives in Belgrade, where there is no broadcast anywhere, so there can be no re-emission... Is it true, Jugoslav Cosic, that your salary is four thousand euros? Is it true that out of that minus, you pay yourself four thousand euros out of Serbian overpayments? You all think they're funded by Americans. Around four thousand euros, 500 thousand dinars, I'm not sure, but I believe Yugoslavia's Cosic will confirm or deny these allegations. Mostly my allegations don't deny it. Maya Iron, what's her salary? It's about three, three, five thousand euros, a little something. My dear viewers, my dear RTS cameramen, and your yellow Bujke are working with Gilas, Šolak and this team, and Yugoslavia's Cosic. You who have a salary of 300 euros to know that they have a salary of three to four thousand euros, so sometimes it is provided from Serbia's SBB subscription, and sometimes it is provided from the RTS subscription. When N1 talks about the poor, those who talk, Yugoslavia Ćosic, Maja Žeželj and this team in N1 TV, the one who runs the morning program, as it is called, which Jankovic had sympathy for her... (Alexander Martinovic: Minja Miletic. And she has three thousand, sure, here, let her deny me. So, my dear viewers, you who on N1, with your salary average of 470 euros, those who dive crocodile tears over such low wages that you know that they could be bigger to Solak, Đilas, Jugoslav Ćosic and that team do not rob you through a subscription that they pump out, earn the school's right to a 50m-euro plane, but they are not bad either, the basic salary of three to 5,000 euros. My dear students, don't look up to them, to the kind of dual education that's based on combinations, speculation, fraud and fraud. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60570	Thank you. On Article 32 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Radeta colleagues, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60571	In today's debate we've really heard a lot from colleagues who will support this bill, of course it's their right, to support the government, logically, quite to support the law, but somehow a complete absence seems to me to be reality here today was present. In fact, there has been a lot of talk and what has nothing to do with this bill, which is also common, because through every law the government MPs should praise, and then there has been some passing, not to say conflict, among these coalition partners, so there has been a debate, etc., but that is all about you within the family, and it has nothing to do with this bill, this amendment and the amendments at all. Indeed, and when it came to the bill, there were some very interesting things. A colleague said that after someone finished this dual schooling at high schools, they would come as an expert out there when he offered his CV and that it would be better to work for a full salary than to work for a trainee's salary. Now, that's two things that my colleague obviously unwittingly said. The minister said that this dual education guarantees everyone a job, and today a colleague says when he finishes this schooling in his CV, when he's hired he'll be able to write something and that's the truth. No one's law, even if someone thinks they're going to go to school this way, this law doesn't guarantee anyone a job. Also, besides not guaranteeing his job, he also said that it was better to work later, not to work for a trainee's salary, but to receive a full salary immediately. Then what about four years? The traineeship lasts for a year and the traineeship is paid 80% of the total salary for that job that works for an employee who is not a trainee, and instead of that year he's going to work for 80%, this one's going to be a errand boy there at some firm, and four years he's going to work for 50%, and maybe less, he says if he's costing his tuition and I don't know what, so maybe he's going to cut that profit, which he can normally pay him, and he doesn't have to, because he doesn't have to do anything in this law, he doesn't have to do anything. This law, I don't know if you've seen, Minister Djordjevic, in this law no one has to be trained in this system. In this law, no employer is obliged to accept, receive a student, in this law no higher education institution is obliged to conclude a contract with an employer. He can do anything. Well, whoever loves it, go ahead, so maybe the student will, but no employer, no higher school. Maybe he wants an employer, he doesn't have a student, he doesn't want a higher education facility. Maybe he wants a high school facility, no employer, no employer, no student. So, an absolute law that binds no one and means nothing. What else are we here to hear so well today? Yes, one of the officials says that only one person in Serbia knows that we lack locksmiths today, which is absolutely not true. First, I guess every employer knows he's missing a locksmith if he's not around. Secondly, here I can now list you five locksmiths who are unemployed, or work somewhere on black, don't have a working relationship, get some money, make a fence, etc. So there is. That one man is not well-informed. What else did we say? What else could we have heard? This is really a pearl, first Minister Sarčević, then a colleague who repeated it after him. It's amazing that someone doesn't think about it, not reading some data before they say something. Minister Sarcevic spoke, repeating colleagues from the government that we achieved epochal results by applying the Law on Dual Education. Do you know, Mr. Minister Djordjevic, it is not your obligation to know, ask or inform you, the Law on dual education in high school, according to the Minister and MPs of the government, to achieve epochal results. It has been applied since school 2019-2020. Was that this school year that started ten days ago? This is amazing, this is really amazing. You boast of something, and this law was first passed in November 2017, since this school year is being applied and how could he give or not produce results? How can anyone even know the result of the schooling that started ten days ago? People, come on, think about it, praise your authority, nothing is disputed, but praise it with arguments that we cannot stand up to you in this way. Of course, we always have ways of standing up to you, but we're simply distracting you that you should be doing this a little bit more responsible or serious. We've been out of answers for months and we're going to repeat this question, we're going to repeat it every time the education laws are on the agenda. The fact is that everyone in Serbia today knows that a close friend, a former Tudjman, and today a friend of his HDZ and was a financialist of Tudjman's HDZ, Ante Zuzul and a Croatian businessman, who said just now that Croatia is Ustasha for him, and yes, here is the Ustasha state, i.e. the tycoons of the Ustasha state, print our books. So 30m euros a year also earns basics in Serbia, or print more than 50% of textbooks. We've been talking about it for years, ever since it actually started and then the minister, and today he said he's a patriot and every time he says he's a patriot and he's going to think about it and he's going to propose I don't know what to the government, of course none of what he promised he didn't do here, because the last thing he promised as a patriot and a patriot is to form an institute that will deal with the analysis of the UN tribunal's verdict. Here, we are now witnessing that the UN tribunal is offering documentation, but of course, no one is responding from our government, the minister did not form the institute that he promised, that is, did not propose to the government or proposed, so the government refused. He was supposed to be a patriot, in any case, to inform the public, and first of all, the MPs of the SRS who he publicly promised here. He promised therefore, the minister that these Ustasha tycoons would no longer print books to Serbian children and the ministry has in some way informed schools that they can choose the publisher, but that the ministry will not suffer consequences if parents object in choosing the new publisher. It's something amazing, listen, parents are complaining because the school has set up a book publisher. Well, parents raise children, but they don't educate them, schools educate them, schools choose textbooks, not parents. As parents choose textbooks for their children, it's just amazing. What is the consequence of the ministry's attitude, the ministry's gentlemen and the ministry's ladies? The consequence is that the director, and when I said it a few days ago, the minister said that such a director who said it, what I'm about to say now, that such director must bear responsibility, and here I am now informing him that one of those directors was, with his consent re-elected nine days ago. So both the minister and all of you have to keep an eye on something when you say you're ready that we'll check it out and we'll answer what you said. So, what do schools do now? The fact that the school director, in order to be sure to be re-elected, is whether he must be courting, not to you, but must be courting there with his public officials, because they invite them as soon as they take office in the municipality, they call the school directors and say, "Let's move over to us to remain directors." That's absolutely it, it's something like this that sounds like a joke to a serious man, but unfortunately it's absolutely true. And now these directors say so – teachers, and above all, teachers of Serbian language and history want at all costs for children to learn the true Serbian language, Cyrillic, that teachers of history want to learn our rights, authentic history, that they want children to return through learning in a certain sense and tradition, but they have primarily insisted and asked that they can choose that the Institute of Teachers does these textbooks first and foremost from history and Serbian language. Then the directors say so - you can, but they told us from the Ministry if the parents object, you know, the director says - then I have nothing to do with it, I don't want to answer, that the Ministry inspectors come to me, I won't be responsible for what you insist on, and what if the kids have studied in these textbooks so far, what's wrong with you to keep it going. That's really amazing. So, as long as we don't solve these anomalies until we return to our children's textbooks being printed in our country, until we return to history, tradition, letter and language, until we return the national spirit to education, we have nothing from education. You consciously or unconsciously at the Ministry and the Minister and others at the Ministry, knowingly or unconsciously do that denunciation initiated by Gašo Knezevic, which was conducted by Verbic and that Tinde Kovacevic, who was to him, whether she was a State Secretary or not, who today in the shadows along with this Serbian Turajlic, through various NGOs that make up some teacher camps, who make fun of teachers, and they have to be poor there, to attend some of their nonsense, really nonsense, because without that nonsense they cannot get a certificate, a license to continue their work. Indeed, education, schooling has been turned into something that makes a serious man angry. It creeps because, I repeat, I don't know how many times, bad education creates generations that someone will manipulate, and I guess it's in everyone's interest to educate young people, to reach the academic level of education, the maximum we've ever had. Today, we have teachers who are well-known and recognized around the world, and I ask you, what kind of professor who is going to be educated in this dual education is going to be recognized anywhere in Serbia, let alone outside the borders of the state? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60572	The word has a minister, Mr. Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60573	Here, first, I agree with you when it comes to fostering Serbian language that we may have to take more care of it, but I would return to some of the findings you said. First, to any common sense, of course, after 10 days of law enforcement, you can't tell what the effect of this law is in the perspective of the future, but you can boast that when you started, when you passed that law in 2017 and started applying it in 2019, you have the result that a large number of children want to enroll in dual education and saw the advantage of schooling in dual education. Just one parallel with the Ministry whose head I'm on. It is certainly very important for us in the perspective that we know the Strategy for Economic Development of Serbia, it is certainly very important for us to have the ministry's co-operation with the Ministry of Education, so that the educational staff in the future is educated exactly as our market needs and that we have the qualified workforce needed by our market. It is for us when it comes to survival and staying in Serbia, two key things, besides the third one that is always mentioned, which is a material position, is job security and the possibility of getting a job. So that's three things that keep young people in Serbia. Now, of course, as the country that inherited what we inherited in 2014 and all that we had to do, it certainly wasn't possible for real whoever was talking about it to expect us to get out of it very quickly. Of course, the collapse of not only education in the Republic of Serbia that took place from 2000 to 2012, but everything that followed, and even if you look at health care, if you start from 2003 we have been banned from specialising in health and we have had serious, let me say, a space or a hole in that we do not have a single medical student on specialisation from 2003 to 2012, I think he is seriously talking about this problem that will happen one day in Serbia, talking about the irresponsibility of a part of the government then in 2003 that made such a decision. It will directly reflect on Serbian citizens at some point. At some point, I'm sure there'll be a generation gap where there won't be enough doctors. What was the desire and what was the intensity of the government at the time, we can only think about it, but what's for sure is that we will certainly have a lack of a doctor at some point and that we have certainly had a big gap about these doctors, since they couldn't specialize here in Serbia, they went abroad to have that specialization. It's kind of about this education. Dual education does not provide, as you said, certain guarantee to someone that they will surely have a job when they are done, but in conditions where we all know that we have the time ahead, when the workforce will be needed and if we have the opportunity to know that it is necessary for a job, certainly when someone is educated on a dual basis, and if he acquires practice in the course of his education, he will certainly have the advantage of employment and the greater likelihood of that employment. Only if we think properly, if we plan properly and if we educate the fit in line with the needs of the labour market, and surely in circumstances where we have a labour shortage, we are already at 10.3%, I have to tell you that surely in the years that are now going to be ahead of us, we are going to need a single-digit workforce. Someone's gonna think it's a success if we get two or three percent. No, if we get below 5%, it'll show we're in an alarming state with a lack of labour force. We now have to act, we now have to school exactly what we need. I spoke here to my colleagues from the Ministry of Education and I talked about one thing that happens to us in Vranj. In Vranj we have or we have had a staff training that was not possible at all to be employed in Vranj. So we've had generations that were condemned to leave Vranj the moment they finished school. The happy environment would have been across Serbia if they had hired anywhere in Serbia, but most of them were looking for a job abroad. It was this policy that led from 2000 to 2012 that led to such things happening to us. To avoid such a thing, we must work on it. It's impossible to do it in a year, it's impossible to do it in four or five years. To change things must take ten years to change something and to feel it on the labour market. Exactly what the Ministry of Education has been doing since 2014. We're here today for dual education in higher education. I'm sure, since I'm saying it from the law of my office, that when you want something good for this country, you have to be aware that you're going to make a mistake somewhere and you're certainly going to change and adapt to new situations. Only one who doesn't change the laws and who keeps his attitude tight and who's vain in saying that what I bring, and that's what they do, believing that the laws they've done are the best in the world, leads to people leaving our country. It's up to us to change all that. This is one of the things the Co-ordination Body for Economic Migration advises, which is the reform of our education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60574	The People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophet, has the right to replicate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60575	Yes, Minister Djordjevic, those before you were worse than you, but you're bad, too. You are now all you've told, when you're listened to by people who know their own problems and their own pain, then they probably grab their hair and say, "What does this minister say?" Ten percent or 11% of unemployment, and how long is it among those who are off the list of unemployed, how many have gone to work for two or three months in Slovakia, the Czech Republic and Slovenia and do not have time to apply here to the National Employment Service? There's a lot, unfortunately. Here, ask all these people how many municipalities there are in Serbia. People go there nice, and they don't do it for some serious money, they work for 500, 600 euros so they can possibly bring 200 euros home. That's how you live in Serbia, Mr. Minister. You say they rushed young people to enroll in dual education in high school. Do you know why that number went up? Because the minimum for next year is set by 30,022 dinars. You boast about it, and the minimum consumer basket is 37,000 dinars. And then they say, yes, yes, colleague Arsic, 37,000, says your statistics. You could have told them to change that. You say it's overrun, not you personally, a magic number of 30,000. And what magic will a man who receives 30,022 dinars make up for another 7,000 to live on the basis of a minimum consumer basket? I'm finishing up, colleague Arsic, just to tell the Minister this for the doctors. You're talking about doctors who didn't get specials before. That's right. Do you know how many doctors you now have unemployed? Do you know that the ministry still doesn't give consent to get doctors hired? It was these two actions when they took pictures with these top medical students, and it's okay, but they still don't hire doctors. They're still doctors at the Bureau. Still doctors intern for two or three years. They can only fantasize about specialization. This is your real condition, believe me. It's not what turned up on TV -- the employee of 100 doctors, so 70 doctors were employed. Well done. Let's do some of what's not on TV, let's do some of what's in life. Let's do a little bit of what it is, how people who get social benefits live, that's your portfolio. How do they live with disability pensions? How do they live with pensions that are 15,000 dinars? What are you guys talking about? No one says it's not good. You're going to say right now, word came out here today, we're against the development of someone because we're against this law. As we were against the construction of Corridors, so they told us, because we said – we are anti-lex specialists because Zorana is going to steal 300m euros. And seven days ago, we got news in the news -- Bechtel got a 300m-euro job, more than the Chinese would have done, I'm talking about a job on Corridor from Preljin to Pojat.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60576	The word has a minister, Mr. Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60577	First, let's get to the bottom of leaving and taking off the National Employment Service. What is official and the data that is, is that in the first six months our country has left 3,000 people. Three thousand people sought and received a job abroad and thus removed from the National Employment Service. They say there's 50,000. You know, you can say 100 today, you'll be on the N1 news tonight because they can't wait to hear someone say a number that suits them, or say, "Ua Vukic" and you'll be on N1 for sure. But the real truth is 3,000. I don't brag about that. It's devastating for us if one goes away. But let's talk and face facts that are what they are. So, those who applied, who left the Serbian state and said -- we found a job and we don't want to go back, there are 3,000, and it's not 50, and it's not 100,000. Well, we have to fight for those 3,000 to come back and those earlier 3,000 that were leaving earlier. What's the difference now compared to the years before us? Now we want to sign agreements with all the countries where our citizens are going. First of all, we don't want to let them go and live there under some uncontrollable conditions, that they have no rights like these citizens, but that we insist that the contracts are signed here, that they guarantee the same rights as the citizens of that country and that we take care of those citizens, that we know where they are. Their right is democratic to live wherever they want, and it is our right to fight for them to come back here and we will work on it. When it comes to minimum wage, the minimum in Serbia was 12,000, the minimum in Serbia was raised and the consumer basket was much higher than the minimum labour price. It was that inflation was over 10%, that there was a course movement of over 10% and that in such circumstances boasted that they increased the minimum of 3% or 5%. We've now raised a minimum of 11.1%. Realistically, under the most rigid calculations you want to make, the cost of living in Serbia has increased slightly below 6%. So we're really looking to raise the standard of our citizens. I also told the unions -- well, don't, please, we're not hiding any money anywhere, we're talking transparently for the first time and we're saying what we have and we want to schedule with everyone. We also want to give for the minimumer, we want to raise the wages and we want to retire. But it's all moving in real terms and it's more than just how much the cost of life is. At some point we're sure to reach the minimum consumer basket, but I'm telling you again, that's just the first goal, we'll go on, but we have to put the scale somewhere. Is that enough? Of course not. We can ask the question when and who has led Serbia to become a minimum labour price something that is the mere satisfaction of the law. We don't want it to be like that. We want to fight it. Why is the ministry whose head I'm working all the time on propaganda to stop working on black, to know what workers' rights are, to know when it comes to safety and health at work? Just to live and to have and to be able to attract. The best proof that I'm right to you is that we have constantly higher incomes when it comes to pension and disability insurance grants. It didn't come out of nowhere, it didn't come out of the loans, it came out of the real incomes that we have, by having new employment and by growing wages. They're facts and they're facts. Anyone can check that out. We're just talking about real facts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60578	The People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophet, has the right to replicate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60579	Minister, these aren't real facts, at least a lot of things you said. First you say - 3,000 people have gone officially to work abroad. Why don't you admit at least one more zero? Ask the MPs when the television is turned off, ask each of them how many they have in the circle of relatives, friends, godfathers, comrades, how many of them are working on black and black, went from here to black, there working on black. This is what it is, that the number of unemployed in Serbia has been reduced in this way. Why don't you confess? Let's get this over with. We'll help you get rid of it. But why don't you admit it? You say it's important to say it. "Ua, Vukiæu", you spoke to me, to say "Ua, Vukiæu", and I will go to N1. And I'm telling you -- I'm not saying, "Ua, Wolfie" to go to N1, but to say what's not good about the functioning of the government. And you say, "Bravo, Wolfie" and you'll go to RTS. Then I can't go to N1 or RTS, because I'm not saying "Ua, Wolf" for no reason, and I'm not saying "Bravo, Wolf," like you, for no reason either. You really just have to be realistic. You say - 11.1%) is an increased labour price. So why didn't you go to at least 12%, so much toll? No, we don't forget what happened yesterday, we don't forget what happened a year ago. And you keep comparing yourself with those who were before you. We keep telling you-- they were worse than you. And we're not just saying that right now and we're not just telling you, wherever we appear in public, we say, Serbian radicals -- this power is not good, but those who were before them are much worse and there's nothing controversial about it. There's nothing controversial about it. But let's be better than yourself. Don't just talk theoretically. You say-- we will, we will, we will. Well, when? Still, the minimum cost of working is the social category. As long as it doesn't reach that consumer basket, it's a social category. So you can't live on it, as much as you make a social basket in a specific way. Here it comes, we're already halfway through September. Are you preparing the law to remove the ban on public sector employment? You shut up. You claimed it would be, now everybody keep your mouth shut. You're just saying that in front of the cameras, there's a group of doctors who are hired. We repeat, we support it, and we will never say anything bad about it. But is it normal, Minister Djordjevic, is it normal that today in Serbia there is a single doctor who is at the Bureau who is not employed? It's not normal in a situation where everyone in Serbia knows that we have to fight to keep our doctors here, to keep our nurses here. You still don't do anything to get those lists off the unemployment bureau, the National Service, and at least to start hiring all the doctors and nurses, at least for so long that we're free of that pressure and fear that we'll lose our doctors. Unfortunately, it's not a story for a story. We don't want it to be that way. We want our experts here, in Serbia, not to go there in profit, in the white world, and where there will be no more what they would be in their own country in every sense of that word. And don't think of us as enemies. We speak with argument, we speak realistically, and we speak what we know is happening in the people, what is happening among people. We live the life of a normal man. Believe me. And that's why we know exactly and precisely, they meet me both on the street and in front of the building and at the market and they say, you know, that guy's gone again, you know, again he's the one, you know... And that's how we get the data that's very different from your statistical data.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60580	Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60581	Alexander Vukic is mentioned, asking what the people say and what is real in Serbia. So on the subject of these things that were run here, let's see here. They say -- someone from Serbia goes, and that's the only way to reduce unemployment. And how does Serbia's Alexander Vukic's employment increase at the same time today? How do absolute numbers increase the number of employees? Look at that official statistic, so when you see thousands of people back in the years who were getting busy and weren't busy, what's that got to do with anything we've heard a little while ago and it's still real? The factory comes to Novi Sad, hires people. What's wrong with these people? Are they imaginary or are they real? I'd say they're real, living people. He comes to Old Paz, people get hired. Do they exist or do they not exist? I'd say there are, and that's how. In Nis several times, several factories, in the King again several times, several factories. All real, living people, counting on that real statistic. Well, that's true, if we're going to talk about the real truth. As it is true that, although the Law on dual education at the level of secondary education is indeed adopted in 2017, these models have been introduced since 2013, thanks to the programmes, which Germany, Switzerland, Austria. And the moment we adopted it, we said -- here, now, four and a half thousand students attend those programs, here now 600 companies participate in these programs, now over 30 of these programs exist. What's real? I'm asking-- what's real? Next thing. If we talk about what Serbia is doing today, again, Serbia, yes, Alexander Vukic, to keep healthcare workers in Serbia, so who is increasing their salaries? Certainly not those who don't know what's real, but this country that Alexander Vukic and SNS are about. Was there an increase at 12% just for that sector and these people this year? Will there be an increase for those people at a level that's even bigger? It'll be 15%. Well, then who's taking care of them? I'd say those who provide them with those salaries. I'd say -- those who provide them with those working conditions that they've never had, and in those clinical-patient centers that we've done, which we're doing now, but also in different other ways that we've talked about here very often, and we're very happy to talk about. At the very end, what does the people say? Let no one be realistic for themselves and let no one be the smartest in the world, again to ourselves, but let us see what that people say. It's Thursday. As of Sunday, the day of the week, to this day, did not pass too many days to forget, asked me people and people say - 65%, yes, it works well for Aleksandar Vukic, yes, the Serbian Progressive Party is doing well, and yes, these results we see. And you know what, I wouldn't argue with the people, the people are right.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60582	Right on the line, the People's Messenger of the Faith of the Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60583	Just two sentences. The first is -- Serbia is Alexander Vukic, exactly as much as mine, exactly as anyone here. And it is really inadmissible to say that Serbia is Alexander Vukic. Aleksandar Vucic was elected by the president of the Republic of Serbia in the elections, and no one slows him down. But no one even gave him Serbia. Serbia belongs, according to the Constitution, to colleagues, to Serbs and to all other citizens living in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60584	Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60585	Okay, I think it was quite obvious to say -- Serbia at the time of Alexander Vukic, Serbia when the old Aleksandar Vukic, the Serbian Progressive Party and the governments we support, is the Serbia I was talking about. So that meant it. Serbia today, Serbia at this time. And you know what, because people when you ask him, as we have asked him recently, although many times before, when people so convincingly and so strongly say -- yes, 65% think that Serbia is much better than those found by Alexander Vukic and SNS, yes, that's Serbia that we believe so much more, yes, that's Serbia where we want to stay to work, much more than we've ever wanted, I think it's Serbia that needs to be Serbia that is satisfied and those who may not be satisfied with the fact that it's old Alexander Vukic and SNS, and not them, you, some others. I think it is Serbia, which is definitely today with much more confidence, but the real one, therefore, on sound grounds, not the one without cover, can plan its future and work on leaving its children more. And when I say -- that's Serbia today, I say -- that's Serbia that's old Alexander Vukic and SNS. I think it's much clearer now.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60586	Thank you. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. We move to item 2 of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Regulated Professions and Recognition of Professional Qualifications. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society, as well as the Government's opinion on the submission of amendments. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157, paragraph 3. I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to review the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? My colleague, Despotovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60587	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the draft law on regulated professions and recognition of professional qualifications, this amendment refers to Article 1(2), where the word "subsidiary" is replaced by the word "secondhand". It has already become a form of work done by the government as legislators to do so to the harm of our native Serbian language in its practical and professional practice of the European directives and to comply with EU rules. In translation and transposition of European directives, whether we like it or not, some kind of attack is being done in our Serbian language, as well as in our terminology. The draft law on regulated professions and the recognition of professional qualifications was adopted under the European Directive, and behind this law stand as one, all ministries. Where's the width, where's the depth of the debate? Is there any lack of interest, which is the worst form of support? We accept the mutual recognition of the professional qualifications she has agreed, not as Serbian radicals, but as I mean the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the RES, agreed by a group of European countries, and this same group of countries is constantly asking us for something, setting conditions for the system warm and cold. It's nice to read the bar in the bill where automatic recognition is said. What about our confession? In this proposal, the law literally states that the directive is adopted as it is. The legislator doesn't have to serve the directive in everything, he can slip through something and simplify himself. One word to be in the spirit, as I said, of our Serbian language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60588	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. My fellow Ristich, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60589	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when it comes to professions, I must again ask this Luxembourg professional how he manages to pay himself and his neighbors between 3,000 and 4,000 euros? In doing so, the programme calls for low salaries of our citizens, and thanks to the subscription and robbery of those same citizens, it has a salary of 4000 euros, and perhaps more, it is only a salary. And he's doing it out of a loss of 7.5 million. Does anyone who's been in business know how to pay a salary of $7.5 million? So, when the workers get lost by the company, they don't get paid for a few months. It happened during the yellows not to get a few years, because the company is down. How does Yugoslavia pay its salaries from Luxembourg from 3,000 to 4,000 thousand euros? Of course, the origin of the money is from the subscription and revenue from the Serbian commercials, how does he pay those salaries? Very easy. By cheating on the state. He does well in Serbia, and receives salaries that are substantial for Germany, Luxembourg, etc. There, a salary of 4,000 euros would be considered a very large salary. What kind of profession is that when from a minus... Say, you, sir, drink water, can you drink water from an empty bottle? No way. Not from the vacuum. How does Yugoslavia, the Duke of Luxembourg, pay wages from a minus 7.5m euros? So, when his money is pumped, Solak, Gilas and the team, the 500m euros, then they go back to the spoon a little bit to pay their wages directly, and the minus is not covered, so that something of the 7.5 million minus doesn't cover up. Why? When they get caught by these new customers that they've been cheating, when the fraud is revealed, those who send that loan, the church girl from Luxembourg, the School and the team, they'll pick up the technique, the equipment and the building, probably, and say they're taking it on loan basis, they're taking it back, they've pumped the money, they've taken the building, equipment, etc. Cameraman leaves no cameras, no installers, they'll all pick it up nicely, leaving Serbian suppliers minus 7.5 million. That is why the minus is not covered, but only for the salaries of Yugoslavia's Cosic and the team around him, fat wages, 3,000 to 4,000 euros. In doing so, the origins of the money from Serbia, the work on black threatens domestic media, and they advocate freedom of the media. What kind of freedom of the media is that when I work on black and broadcast commercials, I pay nothing to this country, and that kind of work threatens those who pay for it all to the state? What kind of profession is that when you cheat? Let's just say you "N1" television can't sue for any damage, let's just say that it's not true, they can't be the defendant's side, because their lawyer's office, I can prove it, their lawyer's office says -- we can't be the defendant because we're not registered in the APR, and in the media register, they're not being held as media service providers, like the broadcaster and they can't be sued. They can publish anything about you and me, they can attack leadership, they can try to destroy the state, they can try to destroy the state's office, they don't respond to anything, and in terms of the law, they're not the media in Serbia, they're foreign cross-border television. Imagine these Americans working with them because of the Internet suspect that Russia has interfered with election processes in America. Wait, brothers Americans and Indians, wait a minute. We're the Balkans, but we're not exactly Indians, you can't just wipe us all out. Wait a minute, so how can your alleged television get involved in political opportunities in Serbia? What kind of profession is that? How can you interfere with the fact that non-registered foreign television participates in political life, brings the political leaders of the opposition, various other leaders and so on, NGOs, and roughly interferes in the country's internal policy, as harshly as possible, and says – we are foreign cross-border television. Well, if you're foreign to cross-border television, if you're Luxembourg and Slovenia, why are you interfering in our elections? What do you broadcast election propaganda from Serbia, of course, illegally? They don't even know when the elections are in Slovenia and Luxembourg, so why don't you do it in Slovenia and Luxembourg? What you come here as foreign television and participate in political life, you may report to Luxenburg and Slovenia, but you can't broadcast the program here and thus play the cross-border television that serves you to pump money and those who participate in it get that greasy salary from 3,000 to 4,000 euros, plus possible bonuses and commissions and then prove themselves to that fat pay, everything will do to preserve and in the most harsh way they will try to bring some power to power without choice in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60590	National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60591	It's a little technical problem. Mr. Minister, Serbian citizens must know that we now have a debate on the details of the law to be applied by joining Serbia, or by joining the EU. I am responsibly saying that this will never happen, and that is also the programming orientation of the SRS, the growing number of young people, it is now more than 40% of those who realize that this is a great lie and fraud, that they do not expect anything good there, and on the other hand the situation itself and their determined statement that in this part, they say, the Balkans, this expansion and what McCron told you, so soon it will not be, gives us the right to claim it. But there's another problem here. Here, I'll just specifically talk about health care with these professional qualifications. You just said that in a few years, in five or ten, maybe even 20, to show that lack, but he's already very present. When we discussed the Health Law and all the accompanying laws, we expressed the view that the state has not done much to make this public private partnership functional and that many people who may already be able to start working tomorrow are out of work. What the colleague said was absolutely true, because all health institutions in Serbia, and especially clinical centres, had an obligation to by some month last year, I think by June of the month, to deliver their systematicisation and, based on the observed situation, to say what is missing from the frames, especially when it comes to specialist professions. In order to remove the pain and to get many who have completed the specialisation work, the health ministry, headed by Loncar, is required to approve the new specialist's employment. That, specifically in Kragujevac, rarely happens. It happens, but on a spoon. At the Kravujevac Clinical Centre, and even in the home of health, many doctors are missing, especially specialists. A specialist doctor who's not working anywhere, who volunteers and gets some specialization, he has to pay for it himself. Is that right? If he doesn't have to pay for it, he has to sell something or his parents. Or, there's such a case that a woman who volunteered for seven and over years and later became a doctor of science, because she had completed her doctoral studies, her husband had to go abroad to earn money, to leave her job to pay for the specialization. Then the question arises - and why is Zlatibor Loncar holding back the employment of these people? How is it possible, then, that he claims there's no collapse in health when all these doctors leave? What a colleague says, they can never have a status there like they have in Serbia. If he is a surgeon, he will first be like a surgeon who has experience who knows how many years in Serbia, whether he worked on VMA, whether he worked in Kragujevac, Belgrade, anywhere, Novi Sad, just to be an assistant, and then to be a full member of the surgical team. We believe that these people, above all, should be made possible, and ultimately, Minister Sarcevic left, will tell you how much trouble there is in education. If you do not allow them to be employed from January 1st next year, Mr. Minister, both in education and in health care, as they expect it to be, there will be major problems and these two very important, vital, two pillars of society will come into an even bigger problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60592	Thank you. On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's Messenger, the Prophet of Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60593	Lawmakers and you ministers are angry when we from the SRS say that you are mostly working on EU orders, not to listen to us, first and foremost here as serious MPs when we draw your attention to certain things. We have been saying for three years that the Rules of Procedure is wrong, that parliamentary democracy is not working and so on. You wanted to take our eyes out, it's all the best in the world, and then some Saint Fabrizio comes in there, you give your lectures, and you say that, yes, it's no good, we have to change things, you're true, and you've changed in the functioning of the National Assembly, and that's good. We'll never say something's wrong, if it is. There's still a lot to fix, but, look, you're getting better. You've been mending by the principle we've been talking about for years that you should do. Be angry when we say that you are working on EU orders, because you say – no, no, no, we are doing everything in the interest of our people, of our country, and whether we will be in the EU, we will see. You know, as we all know, that there is nothing since the trip to the EU, that Serbia will not enter the EU. If you are making corridors on this European path, we will tell you - bravo, it's okay, make corridors, we need corridors regardless of the EU, but make sure that Zoran and Scott don't take 300m euros from your budget. So there are objections, but not generally why we have corridors. If you're building clinical centres, we'll tell you -- it's okay, you're doing it, whether it's from the EU or not, but we have, today, my people, the law, the bill, and you're going to adopt it on Monday or Tuesday, and it's going to be a law that will apply when Serbia enters the EU, and that means never. What's the big deal here? If indeed, God forbid, Serbia entered the EU, this law could be passed in two hours, but you are passing a law, which, believe me, was no use even reading. We've been thinking about writing a member-by-member to erase everything, so let's talk about it this little bit. We definitely decided that when we discussed this. Minister Djordjevic, that this law is the best in the world, that by applying this law in Serbia, honey and milk will begin to flow, that we all begin to live as emperors, what is it worth, when this law is just a pile of paper that will never be applied, or, how do you write, by entering Serbia into the EU? Imagine the senselessness of discussing this law, discussing amendments under this law, adopting it and leaving it where no one will remember it?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60594	Thank you. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Dubravko Bojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60595	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the draft law on regulated professions and recognition of professional qualifications is another one of the arsenals of the law on Serbia's European perspective. In other words, another law on religion. This law is proposed purely on the basis of the European Directive. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there have been periods in history, better said in the development of our country, when we did not like to say the directive, Commissioner. I think the association is more than obvious what time this applies to. What is this now? One directive, one law. It used to be called harmonising, harmonising. Even when you agree with something, you must have a little more self-respect. After all, implementation does not mean mere, literal transfer. The designation of the European Directive literally states – a directive on the recognition of professional qualifications. And in order not to be that alone, the legislator brings into the text the thriller decorations about regulated professions. There is also innovation of the type EPK – a European professional card. And, look at the wonders, automatic recognition applies to health and architecture, to doctors and engineers, to what we really do well. Will they recognize our other professions, such as IT, and not just the ones they need? I must remind you that for now the movement of the workforce for these professions towards the EU is not the other way around. After all, where does the labour force of Poland, Romania, Bulgaria go? To the EU or back. In the end, I want to say that this is the story of a third country that wants to become a member of the signatories. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60596	Thank you, colleague Boyic. The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, colleague Saviæ.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60597	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to the 10th law on regulated professions and recognition of professional qualifications. And if we just go back a little bit, we'll see that this law is bound to one law that we recently passed in this House, which is the National Qualifications Framework Act in Serbia, and I won't argue that the government had a good intention, because many things need to be done and systemized in one place, that some of us know what is what, but this law, as my colleague Dubravko Bojic observed, applies primarily to those professions that are correct there in the West, and where we, or our children, have proved to be successful. I suppose no matter what we have in the West, that they will never respect the reciprocity that should stand in this law, that those diplomas and those professions that exist here and they don't need, they will make a large number of obstructions to interfere with these young people who would eventually go there. But here it's not just what, let's say, the mere abroad, the Western countries, but also the countries of the region, as it is now called or rather the countries of the former Yugoslavia. Not everything can be regulated by laws, no matter what you constantly prescribe European laws, because there is not a single law that can cover all the nuances of reality. The reality is always something else, and man is not able to predict many of these things, and I think, like my other colleagues, that this law, first of all, is being passed because of the recommendation, the pressure, the directive, or how to call it, the EU, although I have to admit some things, there was no bad intention of getting these things settled, because today we have so many titles, so many degrees, so many professions that no one can live up to in all of it, even within our educated school system itself, and not even if we compare it with some educated systems, professions that exist outside. Otherwise, in those occupations, in those actions where people have proven successful, no recognition is required. Our top athletes don't need any peppers from any institution that are top athletes in order to perform in some foreign clubs, it's just enough to see how they do it and how they play it and it's enough for them to succeed, that is, to be able to perform and work in foreign countries. It is similar with our successful doctors and other professions.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60598	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 13th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Rističević, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60599	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, these professions are strange. Mr. Orlic, you know the University of Belgrade better than I do. In 1999, a bunch of professors from the Department of Traffic during the aggression refused to teach a class that was mandatory. Facultys worked during aggression, the moral gromada is called Dusan Teodorovic. It could be said that in the course of the war, he moved to the aggressor side, fled to the U.S. To remind you at the same time, Sergei Trifunovic, an alleged Serb whose nationality I have no doubt, while Tibor Cerna, Hungary, died in the kosharam with words - this country was worth dying for. Dusan Teodorovic had around a password, along with Sergei – it was worth running away. So, on behalf of the profession, I hope that this character will not appear in dual education, that the students will not look up to him, he recommended that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia cancel "Telecom", as an operator, and MTS and switch to SBB, i.e. The school and Gilas. Now, the SBB has been losing for years, apparently. The money's pumping up, and he's leaving his losses here. "Telecom Serbia", although in its work it supports sport, culture, etc. various sports Federations, Telecom Serbia, paid 150m euros in the Republic of Serbia's budget. So, "Telecom" pays, my dear viewers, to know that your Telecom, you who pay the Telecom and MTS subscription, to know that you also support sports, sports events, cultural events, and that your Telecom profits in the budget, where pensions come from, real kindergartens, schools, highways. Academik Teodorovic, a moral gromada, receives salary from the Republic of Serbia's budget. So one part of the income of Telecom. Imagine someone who receives a salary from the Republic of Serbia's budget, asking citizens to move on to the other operator who pays nothing in the Republic of Serbia's budget. Imagine that moral thunder. My dear viewers and you who are paying SBB and Total should know that you are paying Falcone School to pay the Direkt Media, which is also a United Media sister company, Adrija News, N1, Nova S, etc., to pay directly to them, to pump that money, unlike Telecom, which your money passes to the budget of the Republic of Serbia, from where your children go to school, from where your pensions are being donated. When you look at Telecom, know that it is a revenue in part and in the budget of the Republic of Serbia, so you have done a good deed. Don't do what Dusan Teodorovic does, because if you subscribe to SBB, you pay everything I say. You're giving money to pump those money out in Luxembourg, Slovenia, Malta, Switzerland. In doing so, the Republic of Serbia remains nothing. So, the part just comes back, but only for the salaries of those who are spokesmen and some kind of spokesman like N1 and "New S" who defends his boss, Solak and Gilas, who unfavorably pumps up your money and works about 500m euros a year. That is why contrary to Dusan Teodorovic, who receives salary from the Republika Srpska budget, I, who pay taxes on agriculture in the Republic of Serbia's budget, but who also gets part of the salary from the Republic of Serbia's budget, I advise you vice versa. Check out from Solak, Gilas, Luxembourg, Slovenian, Maltese TV and switch to your national operator, i.e. on Telecom and MTS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60600	Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60601	Since you've already asked, Mr. Risticevic for my comment on the subject of certain people and their actions that are actually just an indication of their tendency to think exclusively of themselves. I don't know what I could especially tell you except that such people, unfortunately, have always been and always will be. It's not selfish, in itself, such a problem, except when it starts to cause harm to other people, except when it's directed against other people. Among other things, the problem is that people who have declared this kind of concern exclusively to themselves as their own ideology, we've talked a little bit about ideology these days. So, when you find yourself in the role of promoter, and those you mentioned are certainly in that role, promoter and advocate of returning to the power of the former regime, that regime that declared this selfishness to be the ultimate ideology and did nothing else but take care of itself, its needs, unfortunately, of its insufferable greed, that's the problem for society as a whole. We have to ask ourselves whether we really want to go back to the period when it is most important whether certain ministers, mayors, people like Gilas, Jeremic or those who support them today are going to be able to take care of themselves exclusively, about their companies, about their millions of euros, some of them about hundreds of millions of euros in their own pockets, while they suffer the people, in this suffering the state, to destroy absolutely everything they touch and, of course, give themselves the right to do what they do today, things like these, that they must, and that they condemn someone like Mark Atlagic, who has not shown a tendency to take care of themselves and their own skin and their own pockets in a period where it has been difficult for a nation to find a historical situation in these many years behind us, but on the contrary, fought together with all of us for the good people. When we talk about this people, to take care of the people, to take care of the state, the condition of all the conditions is that you have some care for that people, not to be yourself most important in the world, but to wonder what about this people, who gave you trust, you can do what you can to that people you can provide, and what you didn't have. Because of this concern and what results result from a sincere relationship with people's needs, and as regards both better salaries and better pensions and more jobs, more new jobs and better standards, and new paths and this new health care that we are talking about now, since in this way they treat the people, Alexander Vukic and SNS, on the other hand, you get that kind of support from the people that we had 65% in Medvedja the other day, and take any other case. The people recognize that kind of concern. The people of these people appreciate and love.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60602	Right on the line, Marijan Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60603	Mr. Orlic, I didn't ask you about that. I asked you if it was true that the moral gromada Dusan Teodorovic, as a professor at the Faculty of Traffic, had fled to the aggressor side of the United States during the aggression instead of teaching? If you're not going to answer me, I'm going to ask Kyle Scott, who is currently in some kind of nervous detachment after defeating Serbian basketball players. He's not doing well, so he can't answer. I believe that you are a good acquaintance and university opportunity in Belgrade, and he is a well-known character of Dusan Teodorovic, therefore, to answer me whether it is true that in 1999, Tibor Cerna, Hungarian of the Kovačica municipality, died protecting the Republic of Serbia in Kosharam and that according to that film and the statements of his fellow Members, the last words were "for this country were worth dying"? During Dusan Teodorovic's escape from the country, as well as Sergei Trifunovic, were their words "worthy of escaping from this country when it's dense"? And is it true that this same Dusan Teodorovic, now because of the US television N1 which is actually a Luxembourg copy of an American television, is it true that Dusan Teodorovic has made a statement inviting viewers and citizens of the Republic of Serbia to cancel the Telecom subscription, a.d. Telecom, where the state has majority capital and to move on to the Šolakov and Gilas SBB operator, who pumps money, unlike Telecom, who pays the money, the excess money in the budget of the Republic of Serbia, while SBB, United Group, United Media, "Cas Media", "Darrekt Media", etc. in Serbia, he leaves only losses, he collects money, he brings them out, and he only pays dearly those who are reporters, that is the N1 and Nova S TV, who defends them and who are trying to say that there is no freedom of the media in Serbia, and they are so free to work on black, and they threaten ads and media ads that work under the law? Is it true that he recommended that they subscribe to those who work on black, who pump money, instead of having subscribers, and now I call on the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to cancel the subscription to the SBB, opposite of Teodorovic, and to move on to Telecom and MTS, because that's how pensions grow, thus raising salaries to nurses, thus raising salaries in the public sector, making schools, highways, and not making money pumps, which are done by Solak, Gilas and other companies.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60604	Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60605	Very short. I wouldn't want to take too much time from the other MPs. Where anyone has traveled from these people, I really don't know, although, you see, the question of travel is today in a certain way and a question of debate and a question that is not always easy to answer. Some say that even our fellow MP Vladimir Djukanovic, leaving to visit on N1 television, actually traveled to Luxembourg, however incredible it seems. They say it looks like the moment he stepped into the studio, he crossed the interstate border. The man is preventive, I saw it in the video, I brought a passport. He didn't know what to expect. Whether crossing the state border in his passport has been confirmed or not, I'm not sure, but in any case, you see on that case, today it's hard to say whether or not a man has travelled, sometimes he doesn't know whether or not he has. More importantly, I know that these people have really called for a boycott of the state, not only by boycotting a state-owned company, but by calling for no bills to be paid, that nothing under God's care is paid, and I can only understand that as the height of their political reach. It's the best thing, the smartest thing they could think of, and that the citizens of the offer, of course, in the harsh competition of other fantastic ideas, such as that of them to enter the government, and that no one voted for them, not to become the authorities, and not only to become ministers of the will of some unexpected force that suddenly appears to them and provides happiness in life, but to become directors of public enterprises on the same cost, they were looking for the other day, and to deploy themselves to leading places in local self-government. So it's all about fantastic political geniuses, who have such big ideas. More importantly, and much more importantly, yes, I know of Mr Cerna's heroic act and, yes, the attitude that Serbia should be loved, that it is worth living for Serbia, that his attitude is known, and my opinion of all this, so the fact that I belong to SNS, therefore, to a foreigner led by Aleksandar Vukic, I think he's telling you enough. That fact tells you that I absolutely agree with that attitude, anyway, like all other members of the SNS. It's for us to love Serbia, it's for us to fight for it, it's for us to live for our beloved country...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60606	National MP Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 14 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 21st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Peric, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60607	Well, today his country can't love and should not love just one who's a complete jerk, and everything else must be normal to love and fight for it, build it up, help others be better, more esteemed and more influential and all that together. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister and Associates, the SNS will give you at least two reasons why putting on the agenda of this law is pointless. One of these is also the last member of this law. It says it takes effect on the eighth day of its publication, and will apply when Serbia joins the EU. It's practically never, but it would be like something would happen if it rained on a Wednesday. It seems to me that this could happen, and this isn't going to happen. That's one reason. Second, but a very serious reason, if the law that we talked about up to a point in detail is half, but not with an onion, but half the results you've been talking about here and expecting, then we don't need this law at all. We will, then, have, have so far, but that would be another incentive to do so. We're going to have the highest-quality educated people that everyone wants without their special qualifications being recognised, something like that. But, see, we decided to discuss a little and specifically here about certain members of this law, so we said in Article 21 that defines the procedure when recognising certain occupations, actions and the possibility of employment being found in a Member State of the EU, so in Article 16, we said that the body responsible, or Article 21, says that the body responsible for the verification, confirming that a particular person has met the conditions for recognising this verification, may decide to request a period of adaptation that lasts three years or verifys the competence. It can be done whenever he wants, that representative of that body can whenever he wishes to harass our well - trained and people who have completed certain occupations, but we have said when he has a reasonable suspicion. This is a kind of term that is close to criminal law, so in order to avoid abuse, we suggest that you accept this amendment and in some way protect yourself from self-will. Whether she will be, suppose she will, and you don't know who you're passing this law for, who will rule later, who will want to change something and make it different. Minister, when you just said 3,000 people left for the first six months, of course I won't say, I know that our people who are registered on the labour market in Serbia have the opportunity to leave in another way, and that you don't have it on the record, that they have gone because they may have dual citizenship or something like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60608	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 23rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60609	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, to speed up, I'm just going to ask Solak, Gilas, SBB and United Media, Director Media, CAS Media, N1, Nova S, etc. how can Yugoslavia's Cosic pay 4,000 euros, a man who makes losses of 7.5 million? Imagine, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, would you pay a man 4,000 euros a month, and he's making your losses at a 7.5m-euro firm? If you were the founder of this company, would you pay the director 4,000 euros to make 7.5 million losses? Those 4,000 euros are not the only income. His private company, where there's an employee, makes a profit, obviously so some of us would think it was some kind of segregation. Pay's one thing, pay's the job. Here I'm making a loss of 7.5 million and I get 4,000 euros in salary, and in second place, in my small private company, I'm making a profit that I pay in my pocket. Then don't, Mr. Minister, think that 4,000 euros is everything. Dear viewers, you who pay the subscription, that you know, that there is a reasonable doubt that, through the business, Yugoslavia Ćosic, his smallness, the Duke of Luxembourg, has far greater income, because it makes up for and out of profits, and all of this comes from your subscription to SBB and Total, which is pumped to Luxembourg and then comes only to the salaries of Šolakovo's portfolio, Gilas's business, and in recent times Boškiæ, Žutić, Ljotic, joined the team to die, if necessary, in RTS for Šolakov and Gilas's businesses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60610	National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the amendment of the 33rd. Does anyone want a word? National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 43rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 53rd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60611	I'd love to talk, but I'm afraid he's not making Yugoslavia sick, the Duke of Luxembourg, so I'm gonna watch us speed this up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60612	National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 63rd amendment. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted the amendment to Article 73. Does anyone want a word? The 78th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? Member of the 82nd amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Saviæ.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60613	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I have submitted an amendment to Article 82 of this bill and I hope that this law is not the way for our young people to go faster and easier abroad and thus improve unemployment statistics on our bureaus, or here in Serbia. In his reply to one of his fellow MPs, the minister said that, in due course, certain occupations, some professions with us, and that we would be shorthanded in the workforce, which may be possible when it comes to some professions. This law speaks most of professions, such as the profession of doctor and the profession of architects, and we all know that the state of Serbia has invested a lot in the education of these personnel, but unfortunately this government still holds the law on employment, especially the employment of young people. And then what?- I'm sorry. The man studied for the doctor, taught for the architect and other professions, couldn't find a job, tried here, tried there on a certain, through the agency there-here and finally saw there was nothing left for him but to learn German or English and to go out. Therefore, it is urgent to abolish this Employment Prohibition Act, at least when it comes to doctors and these other professions, because yet the doctor is a profession that requires the greatest period, the greatest time of learning, internships, specialization, training, etc. The doctor is becoming somewhere in the right sense, a specialist, close to 40 years old and the state has invested a lot in it, and because some people can't be hired, it happens that these people are going abroad and I don't think they should be allowed to do it, but in this sense, as I said here, they need to react urgently, that these people are being hired and to stay here in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60614	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 83rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Rističević, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60615	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've released a luxoslav, as was Yugoslavia, but I want an answer for "New S". So, Mr. Minister, I asked the Government, Ministry of Culture, REM – how did it happen that "New S" convey the most important events, i.e. football matches that are not legally entitled, because it does not cover the whole market of the Republic of Serbia? So she passed it on to the territory of the Republic of Serbia, but carried it on to cross-border televisions that only have the right to re-emission the programme. So all they could do was take over an identical transfer from Luxembourg for the Luxembourg viewers. Since they had no right to transfer in Luxembourg at all, they did not broadcast it for Luxembourg viewers, they did not broadcast it, there was a clear answer, since there was no broadcasting in Luxembourg, there could be no re-emission in Serbia, and that is clear evidence that cross-border channels are used, as well as Sportslub TV, for pumping money and for broadcasting ads that are not paid tax in the Republic of Serbia, clear evidence that these are fake cross-border televisions that do not re-emission the programme, but broadcast in Serbia, avoid all taxes and obligations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60616	Thank you. The 83rd Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? National MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 88th amendment. Does anyone want a word? On Article 92 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? My colleagues, Radeta, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60617	If this law were to be applied once, as it will not, because if I did not hear it before, I think of people who may be following the National Assembly and our work, that this is a bill on regulated professions and recognition of professional qualifications and about this bill that has hundreds of members, 98 in fact, we have debated, debated, and the majority will adopt it on Monday or Tuesday. We will have a law that will never be applied in Serbia, because it says here that it will apply from Serbia's entry into the EU. We have already said when we talked about this law in the parliamentary group, we were thinking that we should propose one member at a time to delete ourselves and thus express our position and say that in the legal system we do not need a law that will not apply and cannot be applied, but we have decided to tell you and if we once applied this law, when it was not conditioned by Serbia's entry into the EU, then some members should really change a little. Is it possible that you are ready when Serbia enters the EU, and we repeat this will not happen, you are all aware of this, and God forbid it happens, is it possible that through this law you have shown one such servile relationship, one such humiliation and a beating of the dignity of your own country and your own people? This Article 98 provides for a competent authority which can allow access to the regulated profession of the profession under certain conditions, including that it is possible for a Serbian citizen who has acquired a professional qualification in a third country, who has three years of professional experience, etc. We said when it would be applied, it would be at least normal to say that it also enables a Serbian citizen to do so in relation to someone who comes from a country that offers the same conditions to Serbian citizens. Well, at least you should respect that reciprocity, and not in this way humiliate your own country and your own people, and we repeat a vain job, because Serbia is not going into the EU, and we have never entered the EU and we have created this law free of charge.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60618	The word is from a colleague named Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60619	The Honorable chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, so as not to remain unarranged on the matter of the law, Serbia's citizens should be told. This law gives us the chance to make it easier whether we enter the EU or not to have a good register when it comes to qualifications and professions that we are ready to make it easier with countries that are EU members in a certain way to recognise diplomas at all, not to put people who have already graduated from colleges here, that they have to re-emerge in other countries and vice versa. That our citizens who ended up abroad don't have to go with their diplomats here, because of unacquired qualifications to re-test and go to nostrifications. So this is what we're essentially preparing for. Whether we enter the EU or not, we will see this, but we are preparing to be ready to work with all EU Member States and Member States on this matter on top of our qualifications. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60620	Right to the replica of the People's Messenger of the Faith of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60621	Now we've heard what we have here by this law, what we get by this law. We don't get anything from this law. We don't have anything by adopting this law. The colleague says whether we enter or do not join the EU. We will not enter the EU first. But anyway, according to this law, I've told you more than once, it can be the best on the globe, the best ever passed law, we're free when it's not going to apply in Serbia. Article 98 writes – this law enters into force on the eighth day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia", and applies from the date of the accession of the Republic of Serbia to the EU. Then how can someone say that we, regardless of whether or not we are in the EU, are going to benefit from this law, because we are going to do something, because we are going to admit something. How come we don't have the law? How come we don't have the law and we don't have it? Why didn't you put an end to this publication in "The Official Messenger", so that at least some of the members might possibly be able to apply, although it is impossible, since they are all related to certain, each member is tied to an EU directive. So, don't wash yourself from what is true, and the truth is that the current ruling majority is the same as before, rather, leading Serbia's EU accession policy, without any criteria, without any serious grounds, overcoming all possible principles, not thinking about the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the Serbian state. So, you can complain as much as you want now, it's true, as it is true that MPs of the parliamentary majority in three days, two days will adopt some law in which something is written, in which someone is bound, but no one in Serbia does, because that law would apply if Serbia joined the EU. If he did, he wouldn't.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60622	Right on the replica, MP Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60623	The agency that deals, otherwise, if we remember here we have passed a law that just implies defining qualifications and professional professions and the Agency which is formed in the competence of the Ministry of Education and Science and Technological Development, is, in fact, the Agency that needs and is required to make a register of professions based on which we will essentially have a basis for applying these laws. So, it can't be applied overnight, and it can't be done by the laws on which we're supposed to issue certain solutions. It will be the obligations of these agencies that within three months of applying, at the request of anyone who wishes to obtain a qualification solution, whether he is a doctor, an engineer, an architect, an economist, will mean that the professions that have been recognised not only in the EU member states, but also in the world will be defined. We will only then be prepared to apply such a law essentially. By the time that law is applied, we've got a lot to do. First, that register of professions to be done. It's not a simple job. In order for us to do such a thing, we must have a ultimate goal, and the ultimate goal is to enforce this law. In the direction of implementing the ultimate objective, that is to say, all the preparations that will be made by both the ministry and the agency itself, are precisely carried out by the application of this law, which will be not only for the EU Member States, but for our entire region, but for the world. So we must bear that thought that simple professions must be unified by their names for all countries of the world and for EU members. Whether someone likes it or not, whether it's just the EU, maybe it's Russia, China tomorrow, because somewhere there's a tendency to unify the world's profession. It is simply that there is no longer a need for nostration of diplomas, that there is no need to stop this fluctuation between the people themselves who will run certain jobs in the Member States of certain major economic continents. So, what is an engineer in Serbia, it should be an engineer in both EU Member States and Russia and America. Therefore, I think this is a good way to show where Serbia is going when it comes to qualifications, when it comes to professions, when it comes to educated people who already have a certain type of diploma. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60624	Thank you. Right on the line, the People's Messenger of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60625	Article 98. The bill – this law enters into force on the eighth day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", and applies from the date of the accession of the Republic of Serbia to the EU. What exactly didn't we say? What kind of stories are these now, fairy tales, maybe this, maybe when we're really ready, we need this, we need this. Perhaps all that is needed, perhaps all that is true before, but the problem is that it is not in this law and that this law cannot be applied and that the whole of Serbia must know that the current government is passing laws under the EU's order and that they themselves write that the law will not apply until Serbia enters the EU. Make an argument against it, not - tra-la-la-la-la. You let go of that story, come on, talk to one argument. You've only learned how to do a mantra pro-European, and I don't know what kind of talk you're talking about or praise the government, the government and talk, I really respect every MP here and I really don't want to offend anyone personally, but don't insult our intelligence either. Does it say that the law will apply once Serbia joins the EU? Is that what it says, will you vote for it? You will. And now what are you trying to convince us? We didn't talk about the quality of this law. We said, it may be the best in the world, it may be the best in the globe and beyond, but it will not apply in Serbia until Serbia joins the EU, and Serbia will never join the EU.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60626	Thank you. The 93rd amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Stojanović, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60627	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister of Associates, I have submitted an amendment to Article 93. Proposal for a law on regulated professions and recognition of professional qualifications. I asked the amendment to change the view of the relevant educational institution on acquired education in the said article. Opinions relating to candidate learning outcomes should, as a rule, be binding on the competent authority in the process of recognising professional qualifications. The opinion of the subject who provided the education must be respected. Otherwise, what is education for? Today we have a large number of different educational institutions, both at both level and by quality and by structure of education. If every body is left free to interpret and give an opinion, it won't take us anywhere. We're going to have paradoxical situations that one body has given a positive opinion on one thing, while the other body for the same thing has given a negative opinion. Who's going to arbitration in a situation like this? Minister? The Ministry? Prime Minister? Or the president? Since this is a very sensitive issue, it would be good to reconsider the amendments submitted by the SRS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60628	National MP Petar Jojic submitted the amendment to Article 97. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, colleague Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60629	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues, there are teachers, doctors, lawyers and other honorable professions in this House and in this House's assembly, and in the area of legislative reform, there has been great damage to legislation reform, in particular in the areas of education. Ladies and gentlemen, it's said, the rabbit in the mountain and the rye is made. Why do we need a law where we've wasted so much time preparing his draft, then making a proposal, then adopting that proposal possibly in front of the MPs, if in practice this law doesn't exist and doesn't produce any results? What the MPs of the SRS have mentioned -- as possible, what the expert public will say, when we have a bill quoted by Mrs Verica Radeta, an MP of the SRS, and I will quote it again, first of all, Article 98, which says, "This law is in effect on the eighth day since the publication of the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", and is applied from the day of the accession of the Republic of Serbia to the European Union". Who guarantees that Serbia will join the EU? The SRS MPs point to Serbian citizens and you, gentlemen of power, and the coalition in power in this parliament, that it should not have come out with such a bill of law before the highest legislative body of the Republic of Serbia and Serbian citizens with a bill that will not be applied. The government of the Republic of Serbia is not a doton, it has its hands full. There are more important legislative proposals to come to this House. If we were to discuss such laws, then it would be wiser if the government had gone to parliament today and talked about why Serbia did not have enough craftsmen, electricians, mechanics, cobblers, plumbers and other professions? Why didn't we go public today to say that we have a problem with the departure of our personnel abroad? Why didn't we get information from regional centres today, from the National Employment Service, how many unemployed doctors we have, how many unemployed nurses we have, how many unemployed graduate lawyers, how many engineers we have on certain professions, how many teachers we have who don't have a job? I think it is more important to discuss this in this distinguished parliament than to court the Americans and some of the EU who bombed and destroyed the Republic of Serbia, and we are still investing and kneeling before them and we promise to them, we swear that we will accept these EU standards. The law was neither close nor similar to a certain law nor a resolution ministry could have drawn up a better bill, but it could not say it would not be applied, we publish it, enter into force, but will not be implemented until Serbia joins the EU. So, ladies and gentlemen, where have we been, what have we been doing? To waste time and make a proposal like this. I can't call what this looks like and what results it'll give. I don't want to, because I respect the government's intentions, but this government's intention doesn't yield results.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60630	According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is made by the MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60631	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Article 107, because of the need to show citizens first and foremost what we are doing and the importance of what we are talking about. So why doesn't it make sense to talk about Serbia today or we investing in anyone here or that it's about some kind of servile relationship or something like that. No, it really isn't. It's nothing like that. What's important is that if there is any doubt, we divorce completely. The issue of European integration, i.e. the European path of Serbia, is raised and there are different opinions and, of course, everyone has a lot of right to their own. We believe that Serbia will one day become a full member, others think it will never, have the right to this kind of attitude and certainly no one can tell you in advance whether they are or are wrong. But if they really do, then there's no reason to worry about anything. The very process of European integration for Serbia is beneficial. It is useful for Serbia because success during the process, and whether or not it will eventually be a member, everyone has the right to see it, but participation in the process sends important messages -- that Serbia is developing, that it reaches the highest standards, that it is politically stable, that it progresses. These messages, among other things, are well-priced and well-measured by investors, so when these people receive these messages, they say, we come to Serbia, then they open up factories, then they bring new jobs. When someone wonders where we'll hire both economists and lawyers, but also engineers and miners, well, that's how we hire them just by being successful in the process. When he asks how we are going to educate people, so that we provide space in our budget, precisely thanks to the success in the process, thanks to the investments that, among other things, come to Serbia. An important note, that there is no doubt, when someone says that this authority and the former regime are identical, when it comes to relations with European integration, there is one important difference, for them it was just a story that served to win elections, and they say so themselves. DS General Committee member Aleksandar Dikic, so signed, that title, for Gilas newspaper "Danasoid", 27 May 2019, says the man himself: "We thought," they thought, while in power, the complete DS, "that the idiotic winged "Serbia in Europe" is exclusively running for the most social positions and that with that password we can get any elections". So they say for themselves – it was just a story for them to win the election. Why did they want to win the election? Not to bring jobs to Serbia, not to raise standards, like we do. Here, he says himself why. Because they all provided themselves with fairies, foreign exchange accounts or prepaid places in powerful boards of multinational corporations. Now, that's why they've been dealing with any policy, which is why, among other things, they've talked about the EU, and they haven't done anything, and they certainly haven't provided any investment, or a better standard, or success on the international agenda, which is today being achieved by Aleksandar Vukic and SNS, with them and thanks to them from Serbia, it's a very big difference, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-09-12-0.u60632	Mr. Orlic, I don't think I've hurt that member of the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (No) (Petar Jojic: Replica. You have no right. It was a violation of the Rules of Procedure. My colleague Jojic, there was also a breach of the Rules of Procedure and at no point did he mention your discussion or your political party. As I noticed, he was talking about some former regimes that are currently not participating in the work of the National Assembly. (Petar Jojic: I wanted to support some things. There'll be an opportunity the next day. Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. This is what we'd end up with today's work. We'll continue tomorrow at 10:00.
