ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57064	The parliamentary group of the Modern Serbian Party has two questions I will refer to at this session. The first question, which is much shorter, is focused on the finance minister. About 15 days ago, we heard extremely good news, which is that Serbia is in debt for 10 years at an interest rate of 1.6% of the euro bonds on the London Beige. It is good news, however, after a little longer consideration of the whole issue, we have one dose left, how can I say, fear that the 1.6% indicator of Serbia's credit rating will be raised in the next period or the investment community appreciates that in the euro area there will be deflation in some recent period. If it's the first case, there's nothing to worry about. That would then be the continuum of credit rating growth. However, if this is an indicator of deflation, since 1.6 is an extremely good interest rate for Serbia's current credit rating, the question I ask is what is the strategy of the finance ministry to deal with deflation in the euro area? The second question is a little longer and more complex, so we refer it to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia. At this point, based on indicators relating to the number of job permits requested in EU countries and given the fact that from 1 January for most of the EU countries, it will be possible to seek the job without a work permit, with the presentation of, of course, appropriate financial resources, what is certain is that a major risk will arise before Serbia, which is the risk of mass eviction from Serbia. At this point, we already have some branches where it's impossible to find people for pretty well-paid jobs. We have problems to fill jobs with more complex jobs, and in some smaller places in Serbia, which have previously been vulnerable to eviction, we have a problem finding jobs of the simplest kind, so it is therefore my question when will the Government of the Republic of Serbia propose to create a national strategy that will not address eviction, but how will we act, because I don't believe that anyone can prevent it and how will attract some of the people to return to Serbia after a certain period? Also, my question to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia is when are we going to determine exactly what the causes of emigration are, because they are not always about wages and how do we act on those causes that we can act on today? Also, the question is when are we going to get answers on how to act in terms of where to raise salaries, since in some areas it is absolutely impossible to keep almost anyone if there is no stronger salary raise, especially in areas such as health care and as some very important public sector places where it is impossible to keep people with current pay levels? Also, the question is, where do you cut the costs, since the emigration will have the effect that we will have a reduced number of active populations with an unlimited number of people retired on the “pay as you go” system? So the question is, where are we going to cut the costs? Will Serbia's commitment be to import people and how will we do that because the traditional inflow of people from BiH and Montenegro will no longer happen? How will we react, since we know how sensitive there was when only for a short while were people who were not southern Slovenians in Serbia? Also, our parliamentary group believes that this should be a special session topic, but we will leave it to the majority who should schedule such a session at some point in time to do so. The specific question is also directed towards the minister of education, and that is how are we going to change the profiles and the number of people we enter, precisely in view of the outflow that is happening from Serbia? For the Minister of Business - this concept and subsidy will face a major problem, because there will be no cheap workforce that was the basis for attracting foreign investment, how will we change the concept of attracting foreign direct investment and how will we get those investments that add more value to the job? It is also a question of how we will reduce the burden on salaries, given that the rise in labour price will cause many small and medium-sized enterprises to be in big trouble. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57065	Thank you. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57066	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS parliamentary group has since the beginning of this call has been trying to influence the assembly majority in the sense that we are trying to convince you that parliamentary democracy should be respected, that it is working in accordance with the Rules of Procedure which is bad. A new one should have been brought or changed at the beginning of this call. It did not go well with us, and that is why you deserve the negative assessments of the European Commission that you care very much about, and then you had to experience that Fabrizio is hitting your pucks, so you had to experience that the president of the country here has to confess to some national convention for the EU. It is a group of some NGOs working in the EU's interest, not Serbia. It was, like, a kind of a national disgrace, but, well, it's not the first time you're involved. We finally had this session according to the Rules of Procedure, in the sense that we had agendas such that each proposal represents a special point of the agenda and that is good. We commended it, but it is obvious that the chairmans, in the absence of the president of the National Assembly, became intolerable that the MPs of the SRS here speak, use time and begin magically to steal our time. I've got all the precise data here and we'll deliver it to the President of Parliament when he gets back, because we've established that out of 28 minutes and 49 seconds, how much time we have, we were taken away from us on Thursday for about three and a few minutes, on Friday, almost two minutes. You know, that when they translate into percentages relative to this time we're talking about, it's about 10%, and that's a lot. Can you imagine what we discovered when we were investigating this? Our MP is reporting for a word, and since this reporting system of yours isn't good, he just said "lady", he didn't even finish "ma'am", the connection was cut off and he re-applyed and you're taking 18 seconds away from him. So if someone's talking for 120 seconds and they're taking away 18, that's 15% of the time allowed. Furthermore, we have not missed a single Tuesday and no Thursday since the beginning of this call to ask either the president of the state or the Prime Minister or the individual ministers and always the SRS MPs are asking questions that are truly of general interest. We are not concerned with asking questions with day-to-day politics or winning some, as some like to say, cheap political points, but we are dealing with really essential things. So, what's the result? It has been shown that both the President of the State and the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister are insulting the National Assembly, demeaning the National Assembly, that they don't care what is required of them in the National Assembly, that they don't care about the fact that we are the most legislative body under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and we have the next situation. In total, we asked, it started on June 3, 2016, at the conclusion of June 28, 2019, we asked 143 questions or requests for information, explanation, etc. We only got the answer 61 of those questions. From 143, then, the National Assembly is worthy of answering only 61 questions. What is the content of these questions, it's a special topic. Most of the answers have nothing to do with the question, what our people would say is fit us round, then corners, but that's going to be another topic. Today we ask the president of the National Assembly to engage in the service, we believe she doesn't know this, and she doesn't need to know, but we're dealing with her MP group, so we know. So we ask that all these questions that we haven't received answers to, according to how they were asked, be re-delivered to the one we asked and that the president of the National Assembly insists that we get answers to all the questions as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57067	The People's Messenger George Komlensky has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57068	Thank you, Chairman. Comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen, given the many times that we haven't been asked similar questions, it seems to me, the appropriate answers, I've been forced to try to sublime these questions into one and be a little more precise than they've been done so far. I ask the question to the Republic Government, the Ministry of Justice, or the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Culture and REM. Questions are – are N1, Nova S and Sport Club home channels? Did the N1 and Nova S and Sport Club obtain all necessary work permits in Serbia in accordance with all the positive laws of the Republic of Serbia? Do N1, Nova S and Sport Club pay prescribed fees to a coma and to what amount? Are N1, Nova S and Sport Club enrolled in the Register of Public Voices? Are N1, Nova S and Sport Club tax bonds in Serbia and are they meeting all their obligations in full? Did these channels of zeal pay compensation to SOKOJ, OFFS and in what amount at the annual level? Where are the masters of these TVs? Have the competent authorities, including REM, carried out a verification of the allegations that the seats and masters in Luxembourg are? Are these programs originally broadcast in Luxembourg, in what language? Do Serbian-language commercials air in Luxembourg? Whether such an original programme from Luxembourg is distributed to the SBB cable network where it is re-emitting. How did REM find that N1, Nova S and Sport Club are not domestic channels, i.e. they are cross-border and there are no domestic ads on these channels? Have the competent authorities, including REM, checked whether Kas Media is selling advertising space on television according to positive legal rules? Did the competent authorities, including REM, carry out a check on allegations that these programmes are being broadcast from studies in Belgrade and that REM monitors these channels, or operators that re-transmit these programmes? Did the authorities, including REM, carry out a verification of allegations that Serbian advertising is being broadcast on TV N1, Nova S and all sports clubs channels and what are the results of these checks? Have the competent authorities taken steps, and if not when they will do so, to determine whether the cross-border channels, whose seats abroad are quoted and listed televisions are potentially interrupted by the source channel, i.e. the signal that goes from the master abroad and inserts into Serbian advertising, if that happens, who does, and when appropriate steps will be taken and procedures against the responsible persons? All of this for the following reasons, and I will remind the citizens of Serbia and your distinguished colleagues of only part of the legislation that regulates this area. The e-media law is a regulated area of re-emission and according to the provisions of this law re-emissioning means taking over at the same time the broadcasting of software content without change, termination, insertion of any other content, including annexes, sections, advertisements, ads, reports. Article 46 of the same law guarantees freedom of reception and re-emission of media services from other countries, which is guaranteed in the Republic of Serbia, is confirmed by international contracts. Article 100 of the same law provides for the following things to monitor the operators to perform REM, that the operator is obliged to distribute media services, radio or TV broadcasts simultaneously and fully and without any change, that the regulator shall monitor and ensure that the operator's obligations are met by the provisions of this member in collaboration with RTL. According to the Advertising Act, Article 74 paragraph 2 provides for the supervision of the application of the Law on advertising to be carried out by REM. The Convention on Cross-border Television precisely regulates the area of re-emission of cross-border channels, etc. As a possible breach of these rules, as well as of the rules governing the issue of tax and other obligations, it may constitute an operation of a series of commercial offences and have in it the content of essential features of a series of criminal acts being prosecuted by official duty, I expect that, unless all the knowledge of the competent authorities has been accessed, and, among other things, on the basis of the question of the MPs and the determination of the facts and the assessment of whether or not there are elements for the initiation of criminal and criminal proceedings, to do so as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57069	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Danica Bukvić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57070	The esteemed chairman, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, is well known for the fact that the area of demographics has almost been ignored. However, since the start of this mandate of the government of the Republic of Serbia, the population policy has taken an important place in the government's activities, especially in the work of the House for Population Policy, led by Professor Slavica Djukic Dejanovic. In order to improve Serbia's demographic picture, the government adopted a strategy to encourage birth and a number of pro-active population measures by changing the legal framework, notably the Law on Financial Support for the Family with Children. A large number of these measures, as well as the realization of numerous projects in local self-governments, were initiated right from the Office of Minister Slavica Djukic Dejanovic. They're already giving initial results. To remind me, by changing the Law on Financial Support for the Family with Children, the amount of money has been increased and the period of use for the first child has been extended once 100 000 dinars, for the second child of 10,000 dinars over a period of two years, for a third child of 12 thousand dinars per month for a fourth child of 18,000 per month for a period of 10 years. Also, an increasing number of local self-governments through the grant of funds to subsidise population measures are included in the House for Population Policy projects. In this regard, I would like to ask the question of ministers, professor Dr Slavica Djukić Dejanovic, whether the creation of a population policy through the Council for Population Policy, but also the creation of concrete population measures is included in our scientific expertise SANU, scientific organisations, institutes, as well as medical and social institutions, which should help to find new measures and popularise innovative measures and birth policies. It is also clear that state measures alone cannot be successful if they are not implemented in life, if they are not carried out by economic operators and other employers who are supposed to support national measures, support the birth and protection of young couples and mothers, not discriminating them if they are born or going into child care. In this regard, I would ask Minister Djukic, but also Minister for Labour and Employment, Combat and Social Affairs Djordjevic, are there analyses and research on the state of the economy when it comes to population policy? Are there any cases of discrimination against future and young mothers or single parents, and is it known that labour inspections have taken action against unconscious employers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57071	Thank you. The word is from MP Zika Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57072	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my first question is for Prime Minister Ana Brnabic. Is the Government going to propose to the National Assembly to put aside the AVNOJ decision, as well as a declaration of condemnation of these decisions, whose adverse consequences we still suffer today? We all know that one party, and this is about the Communist Party, after World War II, took power by armed rebellion, not democratically in the elections, then illegally, illegally made the decision to abolish and ban the work of all other parties, i.e. to seduce dictatorship. Also, without any legal basis, such power, in a completely illegal and anti-constitutional manner, abolishes the Kingdom, proclaims the Republic and makes a whole series of illegal decisions contrary to the interests of the Serb people. They break Yugoslavia into six republics, separating Serbia from Macedonia, and Serbia further into two other provinces, creating all preconditions for the separation of Vojvodina and Cosmeta. Kosovo and Metohija hand over to Albanians at the administration and make today's borders between Serbia and the false state of Kosovo, which have never existed in history before. We later saw that it was actually the first step, more specifically the introduction to wars that we had in the 1990s. We, in the Movement to Renewal the Kingdom of Serbia, believe that the assembly declaration on the condemnation of the communist decisions of AVNOJ and their symbolic placing out of force draw the attention of the world public, especially those states of the Western bloc which call themselves democratic, and which are threatened by communism, and which have recognised the false state of Kosovo, that the communists have just begun the process of separating Kosovo from Serbia and have created preconditions for seceding from our country and that we do not recognise and annul them because they are undemocratic, unconstitutional and uncivilised. The whole world needs to know through what legal violence the Communist parties have acquired some of the rights they are calling on today. I find it amazing that Serbia has not used those arguments in all these years and has not already made such a decision. At the same time, I call on the government of Serbia and the National Assembly to do so as soon as possible. My second question is about the Ministry of Education. How long will our children in schools learn the falsified and ideologically colored history of communist times? We all know that the equal rights of the equidistants and the partisans and that Serbia had two anti-fascist movements to be proud of. When in the textbooks for primary and secondary school, children will begin to learn the truth that the communist rule after World War II, please, this is very important, killed over 100,000 innocent citizens just because they were for the king, that Draža Mihajlovic was an anti-fascist and main enemy of the occupier during World War II, that communists gave Kosovo almost to the state of the 1974 Constitution, and that they settled 200,000 Albanians in the period from 1968 to 1972, by prohibiting the exiled Serbs from returning to Kosovo? Why can't children read anywhere in their textbooks the truth that King Peter II didn't take with him a gram of state gold, for which there is a number of evidence, but it was a common communist propaganda to hate a Serb, who is in the kingdom's essence. We consider it equally important for young generations to learn history based on history and facts, rather than on the propaganda lies of the Communist Party, which is unfortunately true today and will probably be valid until our movement is stronger and wins the elections. My third question is in fact a suggestion to the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, and it concerns blind and weak-sighted persons. I think we need to pay more attention to these people, which are essentially small things to improve their quality of life. I'm not just saying this from conversations that I'm having with people who live like this, but I have a situation from home where my father went to bed at night and woke up in the morning with a macular degeneration and completely lost his sight. I believe that such people need more attention, increase the amount for other people's care, provide them with easier and more quality transportation, more joint gatherings and events, because on a personal case I know how much it means for these people to have at least a little communication, if anything, with people and people with whom they can exchange experiences, which are similar and threatened and lonely. (President: Bringing the end. ) I think you should look at what discounts they have and that many of these discounts are lifted, like taxi drivers.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57073	Thank you. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Milisav Petronijevic, Ljiljana Malušić, Djordje Milicevic, Zarko Obradovic, Stefana Miladanovic and Branimir Jovanovic. We continue the search in detail on the 3rd item of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE COMMUNAL MILICATION LOCATION I am setting a break until the minister and his associates enter the hall. [[After a break.]] Member of the 18th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57075	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, do you know what they call this law the citizens of the Republic of Serbia? They call it pre-election law. We are fully agreed that this is so, but as you like to say, in the capacity of the minister, you can answer our question, or this amendment, I will now say what we have proposed in Article 18 to delete. Since one of the previous members has established the jurisdiction of the municipal militia, Article 18 provides for the authority of the municipal militia, among other things, and a total of 10, they are later elaborated each. Point 7 says audio and video recording powers. You in your ministry have certainly professional and good lawyers and they were able to know and they were obliged, that it was not allowed to, on the basis of the Constitution, generalized international rules and recognised contracts, not to record audio and video without the law laid down the procedure, and the law laid down the procedure when a judge or judge is given the authority to record. In addition, it is an incriminating criminal activity under the Criminal Code of Articles 143 and 144, which means that if an unauthorized person shoots a person, he commits a crime. In the event that this is offered to the court as evidence, he is obliged, if it is not respected by the legal procedure, to single out that, let me say, evidence, to keep it in a special envelope, to seal it up and to the lawfulness of that decision to be guarded. I think you've done something here that's not allowed, which is not in accordance with the law, and a number of other cases in this law indicate that this is one mix law. The argument that this law will have the right and local self-government, the municipalities to introduce a municipal militia, cannot be accepted as such, because last time we said when there was a debate in principle, that of 29 cities, eight cities do not have municipal police for now. If this is not necessary for Novi Pazara, Jagodina, on which someone can claim it is necessary for the citizens of Krupanja, Koceljeva, Prepolje or any other place in Serbia. Yesterday, when my colleague Verica said she was going to intervene with the municipal militia in the event of a noise disorder, so the kid cries a little bit, so the municipal militia officer comes in to intervene, we're wondering if he's going to arrest Dad, Mom or the baby? Indeed, this bill, with all your attempts to explain how this will lead to some better conditions for Serbian citizens, does not stand. We believe that this bill should not have been found in the congregation procedure at all, and since you did, you suggested, you have a congregation majority for it, we just want to be professionally able to tell you that certain things can't stay this way, so you said for not accepting that amendment that it was elaborated in Article 25 of Section 7 of this law the possibility of recording audio or video. If this is deleted, then that Article 25 will lose its full meaning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57076	The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57077	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, every time we discuss a bill we should have in mind what kind of benefits it will bring to the citizens of Serbia. Respect for communal order and increasing the security of citizens is something that is certainly first and will contribute to improving the quality of life of citizens in both cities and municipalities. That's what exactly the intensity of this law is. When it comes to the powers that future municipal militiamen will have, it is true that we are in some way extending these powers. We extend these powers just so that future municipal militants have, or more effectively, better quality of their jobs. We heard from the minister yesterday some taxing lists as far as it was, when it came to Belgrade, warnings, oral orders, etc. That's how we've driven off those suspicions of possible repression that municipal militiamen are going to carry out on the ground. As I said, this law also represents a benefit for small municipalities, i.e. municipalities with a small number of inhabitants, but also for large cities and that I primarily think of the city of Belgrade. Belgrade will now have the largest benefit from the possibility of hiring a larger number of municipal millers, aimed at removing municipal unrest. Speaking of Belgrade, I must, the chairman, notice a hysteria that was created on some media during yesterday, and when it comes to one event in Belgrade, and the Milan Gale Muskatirovic Sports Centre pool. I believe that you, the chairman, too, have noticed the hysteria of a television show, and it is the N1 and the malicious allegations that the city, God, is taking some property from that endangered municipality of Old Town, so we have statements from the president of that municipality, that Bastac, that Goran Vesic is going to kidnap someone of some kind of property. Now, for the sake of the citizens, for the sake of truth, I must say, it's not about any kidnapping of property. No one's gonna take anything from anyone. That's impossible at the very least. It's impossible for someone to kidnap a sports center. For the sake of truth, I must say that two decisions were adopted at the last session of the Belgrade City Assembly a few days ago on the establishment of the company Mirko Sandic and the company "25. May – Milan Gale Muskatirović’. In both cases, municipal sports centres, therefore, at Vrakar and the Old Town, whose founders of these institutions were Vračar and Stari Grad municipalities, have repeatedly violated the Public Property Act. The city of Belgrade, therefore, has made a decision on the establishment of two companies as a right holder of property rights, and should in particular be taken into account that city municipalities are not units of local self-government. In Belgrade, according to law, the city of Belgrade is a unit of local self-government, while the city's municipalities are doing the jobs that the city of Belgrade has entrusted to them. So, precisely for the benefit of the elderly and all Belgraders, the Milan Gale Muskatirovic Sports Centre will from the non-domestic management of the municipality of Stari Grad, which has led this sports centre to ruin directly, as a million euros is a debt, a court dispute whose loss threatens to lead to a part of the Sports Centre Milan Gale Muskatirovic moving into private property. So these yellow geniuses have led this company for years and decades to bring it to the brink of destruction. A million euros is a debt with interest, as much as Bastic and some, who joined the television the other day, tried to dispute and say it was not as long, as the debt is smaller, though they do not deny that it is a debt of 100 million dinars. I'm telling you, it's a million-euro debt with interest. For the past two years, Sports Centre Milan Gale Muskatirovic has left nearly 30 employees, and this is the information to be taken into account. Sports Centre Director Milan Gale Muskatirovic took a bank loan of 50m dinars in agreement with Marko Bastac in 2016 based on a hostage property owned by the city of Belgrade. It is obvious that these wars are not returning, that debts are not being serviced and that interest is growing. At the Sports Centre's Supervisory Board Milan Gale Muskatirovic, people controlled by Marko Bastac and apparently the loan was purposelessly spent on who knows what suspicious jobs that serve to keep the existing clicking on Old Town only in power. The debt of the company, I repeat, has reached the amount of a million euros with interest. We have an example that proves, let's say, that this is about that folk saying -- not by grandma or uncles. We have the same situation in Vračar and Vračar Sports Centre will be controlled in the future by the Assembly of the City of Belgrade, or the City Administration, but Vračar municipality did not report in the way the Municipality of Stari Grad did. She didn't charge anyone with any property theft, no kidnapping, even thanked her on the contrary. Why am I apostrophe of the Witch Community? And I'm coming from Witch and I know something about it. The municipal government until 2016, led by the DS, completely destroyed the company, in fact the institution, the real expression, completely devastationed, led to a debt of 50 million dinars. The workers didn't receive salaries for 4-8 months. The municipal administration that took over the SNS in 2016 tried to save what was to be saved, so, let's say, that delay of five, six, and even eight months, when it came to employee salaries, we reduced it to only a month. I don't think it's that late right now. We have paid back part of the debt, but thanks to our efforts and thanks to the city's responsibility, we are now in a position to save Belgrade's Sports Centre Vračar in this way. There's this fundamental difference between us and them. We don't care about the chairs. We don't care if one of us is the director at all costs and he calls himself the director. That's what he says best about DS, about this Bastac and how they led and still, unfortunately, they run the Old Town municipality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57078	The word is made by MP Borisav Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57079	Thank you. Dear colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, in yesterday's and today's debate in particular, when this member of the proposed law is concerned, so Article 18, we have a situation that from MPs to MPs intervened on all nine points of Article 1. In these proposals, all nine points of this 1st position of Article 18 are proposed to delete. This means that Article 18 does not exist, and it is a member who speaks and regulates the authority of the municipal militia. I'm asking, can an institution of this profile and the like be without authority? Can the law that regulates their work be left unannounced on their authority? I don't think so. The thing that matters in this whole thing, we forget, colleagues are discussing, defending their suggestions, talking, forgetting one thing. It has been said that they cannot have municipal police powers similar to the police, and we forget that in that Article 18, the first sentence reads like this - in the conduct of municipal militia operations, the municipal militiaman has those powers. And the affairs of the municipal militia are listed, as you have seen, in Article 10. So all of their powers are limited to the affairs of municipal activity. I said in the debate when I spoke, in principle debate, that these are the jobs that by their nature fall into the internal affairs of this country. Therefore, all internal affairs carried out, i.e. those performing them, must have such powers. That's what everyone forgets. I also said, in principle, that because of the nature of these affairs and because they are an integral part of internal affairs, it would be more natural for them to be incorporated into the Ministry of the Interior and if there are any discussions about it, and I am convinced that they will be, and not in a long time, that they must be within the framework of the Ministry of the Interior, as the current police, the gendarme and the municipal militia have. And then there would be no misunderstanding. However, I also said that in a principled debate. We're waiting for this law, whose application will show, it's a new law, that we have to go towards it. The minister said some things in the explanation, but he didn't say the following, and I, Mr. Minister, is interested, so if you can later, in the debate, say - whether during the debate on the start of work and during the work on this law there was debate on this cardinal issue whether the municipal police should be set aside and should be the sole service of local units, or whether what I said forward should be incorporated into jobs that are common and which are on the continent, which means, along with police affairs within the MUP. That's the one thing I wanted to talk about. Allow me if I can just look back at yesterday's debate after a break. Yesterday's debate after a break was practically off topic. But for the first time since last night when I was thinking, I think she was very useful. Why? Because we've entered a problem that concerns the country's overall security. What Mr. Martinovic was saying at the end, in his last announcement, and all that he said and illustrated, the headlines, etc., when he gathered himself together, a little bit when he got together, he talked about one thing, I would say, don't blame me on perhaps too harsh a word, about the terrible situation in which we are or are going in, when it comes to the security component of this country. This shows what he was talking about and stating the facts, how much foreign intelligence has been installed in our situation and how much they are operating in the field of security, the internal security of this country. What's significant about that now? Significantly, did we sit and discuss it, and I said it in a few mosses, and last time in a principle debate, and when the government was, when I was asking questions, how seriously did we approach? We are late with the National Security Strategy, in this situation which does not suffer delays, and we have to do this situation, which Mr Martinović spoke of yesterday, most deeply, to look at and it is one of the elements that changed since 10 years ago, brought in, the current, valid National Security Strategy and which requires a change in that strategy and adaptation of that situation. The situation wasn't just changed on the inside plan, what I touched, but also on the outside. The international community's relationship, the ino-factors, has changed significantly to Serbia and Serbia in an absolutely different situation both in international relations and within the country since ten years ago, which is covered by the current national security strategy. That is why I think that the adoption of a national security strategy should be made as soon as possible, which would mean a full, deep analysis of the structural and organisational set-up of the entire national security system and within it's specific security-intelligence system. We need to change that. We were talking here yesterday about some of the things that were happening to us. I wonder if our services are counterintelligence, intelligence, etc. They knew in advance about these things. The mention of N1 television, so whether our services knew it, and they had to know what was going on and that it was going to be done. It wasn't an individual, not a private, no one, but no one else, the man who ran the CIA, the U.S. intelligence service, he's behind the project. This means that the project is intended exclusively to disrupt the country's internal security. Why is it going so far cardinally sharp, increasingly dynamic against and Vukic, the president of the state, and the government and everything else? Well, just because this country started to consolidate itself at all. That bothers you. If we'd stayed the way we were, no one would have touched us, but we're a small country they won't allow to hitchhike. You must be humble, you must be someone who will seek help, not a state for which we fully justify our president every step of the way we are not a country that will allow someone outside to manage and determine what we will do in our country. You don't have to put up with that. This is where all intelligence services are engaged, which is why I think and suggest that we move from here and ask the government to bring in a national security strategy as soon as possible and consolidate our ranks from that area. Thank you very much. (Greto Peric: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57080	I thank my colleague. What's your buddy, Periche, based on what? Based on what? No, I listened to him, did you listen to him? [[Greto Peric: No microphone.]] I don't see where the groundwork is. (The People's MP, the Prophet of Radeta, throws out of town. I didn't hear you. Yeah, he quoted it to you and asked the minister if he was contacted by the D.O.P. when making the law. [[Greto Peric: No microphone.]] He didn't say anything to you or anything. He didn't even comment on your discussion. I don't understand, my colleague, what's the basis for getting a replica? [[Greto Peric: No microphone.]] According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger of the Faith of Radet. [[Greto Peric: No microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57081	Something really strange is going on with you, colleague Arsic, and I am now intervened on the basis of Article 104. Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure gave the chairman the right to give or not give a replica. No one has given you the right to speak to the MP that way. You can say - on what basis Mr. Peric, Mr. Peric says - I am looking for a replica, you say - you do not have the right to a replica. That's what the Rules of Procedure allows you, you can use it, you can abuse it, but it doesn't allow you any self-revelation from that place. Hold on, you've been doing it for a few days. Resist too much comment. If you have the desire and the need to speak on this subject, or on any subject, nicely let someone replace you there, I am no longer in the mood to replace you just so you know, then come well, invite Gordana Komic to replace you, since you are otherwise Europeans, like-minded, and then come here nicely, pick up and replicate to your will. But don't really abuse it, that someone who listens now, that gets the impression that an SRS MP doesn't listen to what someone said, that it occurred to him to call, that he doesn't know if he should answer, that he doesn't know if he needs to answer, what he needs to answer, etc. Don't humiliate us like that. I'm sorry that you're not happy with the fact that the SRS parliamentary group dominates parliament, but what you're going to do is make us such a god.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57082	Since I have to answer you, Comrade Radet, it is the right of every MP to try to get a replica. I don't argue with that. It's a perfectly legitimate right. I don't argue at all, as I don't argue that maybe I didn't hear something nice and I didn't understand it very well. Why am I humiliating my colleague, Peric, for this? I really don't understand. Do you want the People's Assembly in voting day to plead on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? I do, of course. ) It will come out. What's your buddy, Periche, based on what? (Greto Peric: Replica. ) The word has a People's MP, Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57083	I thank the chairman. Given that the amendment has been tabled at point 8 of Article 18 of the proposed law, I believe that such an amendment does not contribute to improving this law by quality, except for the basic objective of withdrawing the law from the procedure, which certainly the Proposer will not accept and we will not accept that it will not be warmly supported. What is important to point out is to point out that video and audio recording is a kind of security measure, and no specific type of authority is required to do so. To such an extent, authority gives itself the law. Thus, the legislator prescribed such a measure, and by prescribing such a measure, he gave authority to the municipal police, or now to the police to apply this security measure. It is not only foreseen by this law, it is foreseen by other complementary laws. Audio and video recording is represented, minor, in some wider range solely to identify certain harmful functions. The whole city of Belgrade is covered with cameras. Great cities in Serbia, too. No special kind of authority is required for such a thing. It's about something that involves one single goal, which is to identify as effectively as possible, as easily as possible, a certain kind of contradiction, inadequacies, harmful actions, behaviors that are contrary to the law, so that the perpetrator can be identified as quickly as possible and the processing carried out. So for this measure, some authority really makes no sense if the legislator prescribed it as such. We can talk about the abuse of that authority, that this measure is used for purposes that are contrary to the law, but the control of the work of the municipal militia, of course, is done by whoever is in charge of it, in this law it is clearly defined, and in accordance with that, of course, and it is expected that anyone who abuses any position or does anything that is contrary to the law should be held accountable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57084	The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57085	From the time of the authorized representative. I just wanted to ask by this amendment whether you MPs from the government, the ruling majority know something that we SRS MPs don't know? Do you have a deal with the minister that we're just, like, spending some time talking about something and you know that nothing's gonna change? How can anyone know that the minister will not accept the suggestions and arguments of a parliamentary group after the discussion of the details and withdraw the bill? How can anyone know that MPs will not be convinced, MPs of the government, that they will not be convinced by our arguments to vote for some of our amendments and to change this bill? How is it possible that someone in our face tells us that we're just wasting our time here for nothing to talk about, but the MP knows that nothing's going to change, the minister came here with a proposal, you know you're voting for the proposal? Is it possible that you are making such an open farce out of the National Assembly? My people, do you know what the Constitution says about what the National Assembly is? Don't play with the state, hold back, at least act out some parliamentary democracy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57086	The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57087	Thank you. As far as the issues referred to representatives of the parliamentary majority are concerned, do we know anything that the MPs who belong to the SRS do not know? It's not at all about that, I'm sure they know very well, if they come up with their proposal that we don't pass this law, that we should continue to operate with an existing law dealing with the municipal police, right, that would be the consequence of meeting their proposal. Now, as far as it has or has nothing to do with what we're listening to today, or specifically a proposal to eliminate the power of point 7, is that right now, that's the subject of this amendment, but there was also a question of point 8. Seven refers to the recording, the recording authority, and eight to the use of the means of coercion. In the current Law on the Communist Police, in Article 16, therefore, among those powers that have already been provided for and long ago in force, Article 16 – power, and then under the regular number of seven – video surveillance, it already exists. So it's not the proposal that we're talking about right now, it's the law that you've explained, for the needs of Dragan Gilas that you've been working very well with, you're probably working very well today, but you're cooperating anyway, but you're incorporated into the law. Then, point 8, so in the existing Law on the Communist Police, use of the means of coercion and then state all of which. So, it's not even established by this bill that we're talking about today, so now someone needs to save the citizens of Serbia by eliminating these proposals, no, it already exists, and it doesn't exist, but it's established by local political partners, though, but also today by the political partners of the SRS. By the way, I agree, people who dominate the National Assembly, which is a little while ago and further highlighted, underlining, among other things, probably dominate the number of reminders they deserve these days. It's all right. So everyone has the right to point out in a way that they consider to be the best and most politically useful to him. But if we're going to talk about what anyone understands, these are things that, I'm sure, all MPs understand. So you stand for the existing law. It's not a problem. Just tell the citizens of Serbia what that means. So that's exactly what it means to stand up for these things that you're criticizing, these powers that you're saying aren't good and they shouldn't exist. What does that have to do with political co-operation with Dragan Gilas? Is this about sharing these European values and standards? I don't know that. I know that Mr Mircic personally confirmed to me these days that the SRS continues to advocate Serbia's full membership in the EU, that's what the man told me. Is Dragan Gilas still on the European integration line? I'm not sure, given who he's at the highest level in the political community today, in the alliance. These are all heavy anti-Europeans and opponents of the EU. These people change their minds every day, so it's hard to catch any head now, either by tail. But here's one concrete proposal on how to contribute, because we're saying that we all care about the fact that citizens get better, that there's no harm done in the country, that local communities don't get ruined. A concrete proposal in this direction would be to stop, for example, the SRS from supporting the old town's harmful regime of Bastac, and to contribute directly to stopping the devastation of the city municipalities and those institutions which, unfortunately, the man, among other things, is being managed by the day-to-day, and this sports centre that our fellow MP Aleksandar Markovic was talking about today. To stop the devastation, steaming, hundreds of millions of dinars literally, so that the damage should be stopped, first of all, and then we should move in a smart way to resuscitate it and make it possible to save such a complex, like that solution that fellow Markovic was talking about today, and as regards a similar problem that the same people did, therefore, the former regime and the "yellow company" but in the Vračar municipality. That's where we were able to find a model that could stop the collapse and the devastation and now go in some good positive direction. The same can be done in the case of the Muskatirović Sports Centre, i.e. 25. May," as citizens call it more often. You've seen for sure what it's like when people don't literally have any logical reasonable reason to put it out as an explanation of why debt was made in this way, why it was so undomestic. The only thing they could offer as any explanation, that's one thing, I must say, immature behavior that you and all of Serbia saw yesterday. They find a guy who's supposed to invite the media to come, invite them to do it, come and do the news, contribute to making a new swimming season at the pool, and people do it to him, go out to meet him, say, "Well, here we will come to contribute to a nice content that you organize." And what does he do? He's acting normal until the moment the camera's turned on. When the camera is turned on, it doesn't talk about the bathing season, it doesn't talk about the pool and the children who are supposed to come there, but it's trying to take the most raw way, completely unprocessed, to place a dirty political propaganda directed against the city of Belgrade, against people who care about life and work in the city of Belgrade, and at the expense of this Bastac and that obscenity band that devastated the sports center, and do it once or twice, I don't know how much television did it yesterday. Totally pointless, completely immature. What's that for? Does that make him a great hero in the eyes of his own or in the eyes of his surroundings? I don't know, I really don't understand it. But to get you into the awkward situation of the journalist who came to your meeting, he did, he came to make a contribution to some nice content, and you lied to him that that's why he should come and what you want to tell him, it's really beneath every level. But that's, look, the only answer, any answer to one logical question, one question that everyone will ask -- why is 200 million dinars of damage done within, what, two years alone? Have you started debt? How much was that debt? A couple of dozen million dinars that you've made yourself again. And today you boast of your business result, which is said to have increased that debt three times. It's destruction. That's all, just not good. It is the last thing the Old Town needs and any municipality, if you will, in Belgrade and anywhere in Serbia. That's not how you do it. To stop this, it's a clear way, the only way to get rid of it is to get rid of it. They've shown what they can do, how much they can't do, or what they can't do. They were just spending, just throwing away money that wasn't theirs, but they gave the money to the citizens who put it on trust and gave it to aging and believed that something good would be done with them. And these guys were able to destroy everything, literally burn their money. It's a little bit more, you'd still like to garden in the directorial offices, the chairs, the various cabinets in Old Town City City City. They just need to be told – thank you very much, you've shown what and how you can, because the only thing you're offering today is clinical behavior in the morning programs, attacking any construction site to see it rise in the city center, breaking fences, taking down signs, harassing honest people who work there as builders. Is that the only thing you can offer? Then we should tell them – thank you, we don't need that. If anyone really wants to, really wants to, and it's not just a phrase to protect the interest of citizens in a Belgrade municipality, in the city of Belgrade, but also in any city, any municipality in this country, the only thing they can say and make sense, that is – no, we will not cooperate with you. That's, say, my correct and open SRS proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57088	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57089	Mr. Arsic, article 108 has been injured. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which is a specific position, reads - on the agenda of the National Assembly, is the president of the National Assembly. Since you are currently in the role of vice president of the National Assembly chairing the session, you are required to take care of the order here in the O.R. This morning we had a chance to see the full hall of MPs, you found the quorum, the MPs split up afterwards, and right now in the O.R., we have just 40 members of the ruling coalition. We don't get into where your MPs went, it's a good time, maybe they're walking, maybe someone likes to watch these morning fights at Wimbledon, but I think it'd be okay to get all your colleagues' cards out of the way, because in this way you're just showing there's no difference between you and those who haven't been coming in at all for months. Every day we are forced here to listen to stories about how the MPs so-called. The opposition here has been excluded from the work of the National Assembly, but since they haven't given up their salaries, privileges and congregation restaurants, it would be good to hear the difference between them who don't come at all and your colleagues who come, apply to the system, and then leave the gym. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57090	I ask the National Assembly to take the cards of the MPs who are not present in the O.R. Just a colleague of Radeta to tell me, because of the billing of time, which is the basis for the call. Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57091	The situation in the National Assembly is actually a reflection of the ruling majority, it has always been and always will be. The fact that MPs talk to empty benches and address empty benches is also a reflection of the government's attitude towards the opposition, or who knows what, what hallucinations, etc. Of course, it doesn't occur to us that we're responding to some empty stories that have been repeated here for days, hours, hours, day after day, nobody's listening anymore. We understand, and I told you yesterday and I got a warning about it, and let's, we understand your panic, we hear all of Serbia hear what Vukic is saying, what he promises, which he threatens, what Vlad Djukanovic writes in his columns, it's all clear to us, but try to show a little bit that you are above it. Now imagine the level of democracy in the National Assembly when the MP of the government boasts the warnings given to the MPs of the opposition. Believe me, it's not ours, it's your shame. Look freely, here we are, as many of us as there are here, just say the warnings and boast about what anyone who is constantly ashamed of parliamentary democracy. If you think you're going to silence SRS MPs with warnings and fines, you know that's impossible. Mr Arsic, don't smile, you know well that ever since the fines for the MPs were imposed, that Zoran Krasic and I had never received the full salary and we never had a problem paying the fine because Gordani Komic had memorized to punish us. She punished you too...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57092	Time, fellow Radeta. Until the parliamentary group's time is spent, I'll interrupt for two minutes, and then we'll adjust the time to the discussion. (The Faith of Radeta: Not brother, but Businessman.) All right, all right. I agree. My colleagues, Radeta, don't let anyone bring out any information about what it really looks like. I'm telling you... Behold, Arsic, let the people see the data, all in a second. ) All in a second, all the time you've been over, so no one's told you anything about it, etc. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic. On what basis? )
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57093	Based on that, let me tell you that I have never shown disrespect for the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57094	A fellow Eagle, please. My colleague Radeta, first of all, you just said that you received a warning because someone was stopping you from speaking. That's not true. You received warnings because you prevented others who had their own exposure and threw away. Radet colleagues, you asked for a replica, only two and a half minutes ago and Orlic has the right to report, even if you were looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, he can spend his time any way he wants, as you can. It's regulated by the Rules of Procedure. That's not what I introduced. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57095	Here, to see how we're terrible dictators, I say in advance, you can count the time whatever you think is best, I'm not angry. On the subject of what Mrs. Radet said earlier, she said we were talking to empty benches. I've never shown that kind of disrespect for the SRS parliamentary group. I don't think when I talk to them, I turn to them with empty benches. I fully respect the fact that there are and we talk no matter how many there are, there's always a one-digit number, here and now I see less than ten, but I don't think that's the problem, I don't think that's why they're representatives of empty benches. On the contrary, they are representatives of some people who voted for them, so as many as there are, not some impressive number, I must say, but Mrs. Radeta is wrong, you're not empty benches to me if you're worried about it. As for commendation or commendation for getting warnings, you did it yourself. So you boasted that you dominated the National Assembly because you received warnings. It's not exactly commendable why you received these warnings. You got them for rude behavior, and that kind of rude behavior that goes beyond all the limits of taste, which is why I would not boast of it, but a much more important issue of democratic relations and parliamentaryism. We have already spoken here, when a parliamentary group like yours has the right to debate in group time for 32 minutes, and every session discusses 68 minutes or 70, so it gets not as much as it follows in the Rules of Procedure, but they're so tolerant as to give you two times as much time, and more change over it, I think that's an indication of respect for democracy. Show respect and show your desire for parliamentaryism at the level of the Old Town, because you know what the SNS is in opposition there and there is the regime of this Gilas Bastac in co-operation with you so democratically treats our representatives that there is no talking about some seconds and minutes to discuss but physically throw out. Be careful, they physically throw out the committees in the congregation hall of the municipality. Is that a sign of democracy? Is that an indication of high standard respect in parliamentaryism? That's what, that kind of dictatorship, that kind of disrespect for democracy and democratic values that's really on the level of fascism. That's what people who are direct associates of Dragan Gilas, and that's what those who support them there and co-operate with them in local government. Are you still one of those? It's a question for you and your relationship to democracy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57096	Thank you. Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57097	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, we talked about this way of working as in the previous law, and when the municipal police are formed now, the militia is unacceptable, and if you look at it, and some remember, the stenographic notes of 2009 were equally spoken by Arsic even though he then took the mandate of the SRS. I looked at the speech of your authorised representative, Jorgenka Tabakovic, that it was something terrible, that these were parapolitan formations, and now I have to paraphrase, powers that are unacceptable. Members of the SRS were then warned, ten years ago, that by giving authority to one such formation which from the Constitution and other accompanying laws could not possibly belong to the municipal militia, as you now call it, would cause a great revolution among citizens, leading to many incidents, which were, because the means of coercion that could be applied by municipal militiamen, police officers, however, is something really contrary to all aspects of the Constitution, and above all with members of the freedom and protection of personality integrity, so if you want to deal with the face of deprived freedom. In Article 28, if only last year and more than 30 Serbian citizens were taken for lack of possession, the importance of the ID card, the police station, is raised, these frightened people who were taken there by a municipal police officer did not know their basic constitutional rights. Let's really stop that municipal militiaman from calling me or Radet, Alexander, Philip, one of the Serbian radicals, to see what he will call himself in his actions under his alleged official duty. Do you know, Mr. Ruzic, and you know, because for many years you've been in parliament and your president has been a long time minister of police, what security and psycho-physical tests must pass people who have contact with citizens. Do you know, and here in certain members it says that they will do so and bring it by order of the mayor and the president of the municipality the belief that the psychological test has passed, that they have some sort of condition and so on. Here, here, a living and healthy colleague, Jojic, who finished his service with the highest rank of police, could be said, General, so do you know what he had to do then and what now must be done not only by police members, but also by the Emergency Sector, those who applied for firemen. And now you can give people who can absolutely be potential and as they are, because this is funny what those tests are going through, you give them the authority to apply the means of coercion, to pin people, to tie them up, to cuff them, to use tear gas and so on. This is really something that is deeply against elementary principles and the Constitution and all other laws and so on. This law, be sure if anyone challenged him in the Constitutional Court he couldn't survive.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57098	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57099	I thank the chairman. Well, I can agree that those who passed the Law on the Communist Police in 2009 did not have honorable motives. Chuck, I think I'm sure of it, given that we have in mind who was in charge of Serbia at the time, if we have in mind that it was Dragan Gilas, we can certainly be, that the honorable motives were not in the plan. I can, even agree with Gilas thinking about the municipal police in a way to create a parapolitan force. I can agree that that's how Gilas wanted to create a party army, that's the facts, it's known, at the very least all citizens know it. But it has nothing to do with us, and I can agree with Gilas doing everything he's done covering it's behind dishonest motives, in the end, if someone who was able to make 500 million euros for his political engagement, in private, so much measure of property, then says so. When it comes to this Djilas and this member of the presidency, and his party, as she is now called, Mark Bastac, whom Vladimir Orlic spoke about earlier, I would like to present another piece of information, which is that the management of the sports centre "Milan Gale Muskatirović", paid the company to clean the building, municipalities, 58 million dinars. In fact, they paid for their activists and their committees. When it comes to the debt of the sports center, of over 100 million dinars, the question arises how did they even come into such a situation? With absolute negligence, absolutely to say ignoring the needs of this institution, absolutely irrationally used funds, they came to this institution today not being able to service its debts, because they were taking unfavourable loans, they were taking credits for which they had staked their assets, by the way, I was told I was wrong, not their property, it's the property of the city of Belgrade, and today they are in a situation that they can't service their debts. So, what do we do to save our executive chair, let's declare that this evil city wants to kidnap someone? Let's say that the mayor, the deputy mayor, the city's leadership, the people who want to steal property from the citizens of Old Town. When it comes to Vracar, we also have a hypocritical statement from DS, as of yesterday, about the establishment of a company called Mirko Sandić, which says DS condemns the treatment of citizens' assets, as part of the party's active SNS, especially the latest decision on the award of the Vračar Sports Centre and the children's resort "Skuplja rock", with belonging content, the city administration that depicts the model and extent of irresponsibility. This is so hypocritical, I have no words. The one who destroyed the Vračar sports centre, so for decades they ran the facility, completely devastated it, destroyed it financially, not to mention in the infrastructure sense how much the devastation was, left this company with millions of debts, so 48 million dinars was a debt, when the SNS took responsibility for the exercise of power on Vrakar, and we managed to take it off to 26 million, we couldn't anymore, absolutely couldn't do it anymore. Salaries that have been late for eight months, they're not late today, or they're 15 or 20 days late. From all of this, I think it's about extremely hypocritical statements, about one, to say, a miserable attempt to blame and responsibility on the city of Belgrade and the city's leadership. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57100	Right to replicate National MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57101	Well, Mr. Markovic, perhaps you, with complete argument and your colleagues in support of such a bill, would be right if you weren't the same as others. It's the ones you keep talking about, and they don't exist here, they're not in the O.R., I guess you're talking to them, to hear you, to hear you out, but here I'm going to mention one of those names, maybe forgotten, but it's the same thing as if it's Gilas, whether it's this or that. Let's say this Alimpic, he was the president, you remember him, the City Assembly, had absolutely the same arguments for the authority of the municipal police and for this particular member of mine, and for this point of coercion, like you now from the ruling coalition, exactly the same. He even went there, and when that law came into force, he said -- well, that's great, so now we have people going to these illegal construction sites, they can use pendrekas to tie up, so they can bring in those who are involved in illegal construction. Please, I have not heard any other arguments, so yesterday on this site "Open Parliament", I found stenographic notes, the entire course of the debate, chaired by then the president of the Assembly, for a time, and then Gordana Komic, later on, went after the amendments, radicals to express the penalties, to take away the words, all arguments, identical then, repeated Minister Milan Markovic. So, I can't believe it, so it all turns out after 10 years, you like some who are against them, against such authorities, against everything they advocated, so I guess that's what the citizens voted against in the 2012 elections. Didn't you promise the same thing? Didn't you say it was a parapolitan formation, that it was against constitutionally, even Martinovic, who is not here today, at that time, called for the presence of Minister Snezana Malovic, to say it was against constitutional law.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57102	Right to the replica of Ambassador Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57103	I thank the chairman. If Alimpic had talked about stealing from Vracar or Old Town, I wouldn't say. Indeed, I would not say, a team before Alimpic, if I am not mistaken, at one point, and I am not mistaken, was the assistant president of Vračar Municipality, Branimir Kuzmanovic. It's at a time when DS is destroying the Vrachar municipality, otherwise it's been happening for decades. You know what, about Alimpic, songs were always sung about the way the City Assembly led it, of course, in a completely negative context, while the beautiful conductor bat had Dragan Gilas. However, what interests me and what interests Serbian citizens, why are you persistent in the coalition with them, with the same Alimpic, with the same Gilas and the same Bastic? When I say with Gilas, I don't mean an open coalition, but with your participation in the Stari City municipality, you are unfortunately, and unfortunately Serbian citizens, in a coalition with Dragan Gilas. Why do I say that? Because Marko Bastic, president of Stari Grad municipality, who you helped become president of the Municipality of Stari Grad, is a member of the Gilas party presidency. I don't know exactly what the party's name is, I guess, the Freedom and Justice Party or something. You can imagine that a man dares to call his party freedom and justice. Look, if Gilas stands for freedom and justice, then I don't know what to say. But why do you support this Gilas this way? Why do you support Bastache? What do you need that for anyway? These are the questions you need to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57104	Right on the line, the People's Messenger of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57105	The amendment that is spoken of here would absolutely have to be accepted, because it is truly unacceptable that the use of force, or coercion, can be done by anyone other than the police in peacetime and the military in wartime. What I said now was actually reminded myself that this is exactly what Aleksandar Martinovic said before 2009, when the Law on the Communist Police was passed. It's really amazing that you won't accept the means to force and all of this that you're... The arrest, because this is an arrest, an arrest, can't be said otherwise, that no one can work in the state but the state authorities. I can't have local self-government doing this job that you're about to do here. Since the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia has not changed since that period, that is, during the period when the municipal police were being spoken, the constitution has not changed, and the same constitutional basis could have been then and now. Now we ask ourselves, you who were then saying that there is no constitutional basis, that the Constitution does not allow the establishment of the municipal police, today the municipal militia, what has changed people in your heads? If then something was not in line with the Constitution in your opinion, then how can you now claim that it is in accordance with the Constitution? Indeed, once again consider your views and examine what we claim and accept that this law is withdrawn from the procedure and agreed with the MUP, make a group that you will call the municipal police, if you will. (President: Bringing the end. I'm bringing the end. I don't want to rephrase exactly what was heard here, because that's what I said, a story that repeats itself, but I'd just like to remind you that you, gentlemen of the advances in Tutin, are in a coalition with the Ugljanin and the New Market, just for the record.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57106	The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic. Right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57107	It's not a general question of what's going on with us thinking, as you said -- some year back or today, but your thinking now as you speak. Once again, you are against the adoption of a new law. That means you're willing to keep the existing one. Do these powers that bother you exist in the existing law? There are. Then why do you insist on staying? So it doesn't make any sense. If we're going to talk about this more seriously, look and say it honestly because there's a word on the subject -- what kind of people are getting this power? Look and tell me honestly, are these criteria that apply to people and what kind of people, with which conditions can they be in the municipal militia after we adopt this law and today to the Communist Police? That's what you have in article 35. If you do not understand what is new and different from the existing law, the 34th page of the reasoning is well stated in the second paragraph that a previous security check is now being introduced, which was not, to introduce specific conditions for establishing a working relationship, at least once in three years checking practical skills, that it will be applied to those people who have already been engaged in the municipal police, and to those who will be engaged for the first time in the municipal militia and other things, all of them are listed here. As for these stenograms you mentioned, Mrs Jovanovic, please put them on the table and read to us exactly what Alipic was saying that year. It would be valuable for us and the citizens of Serbia to hear, if Alimpic then admitted to stealing from Vračar municipality, he and "the yellow company". That's what Mr. Markovic said, if you've heard the same words, come on, it's important that Serbia hears it. May Serbia also hear what Alimpic was saying about the thefts in the Old Town that they used and then, and it seems they are still applying today, only this time with your help, to this extent or to that extent. Just so you know, Alimpic, you're working with him today. How? Well, the moment the current assembly of the Belgrade City Assembly and the election list of Dragan Gilas was launched, at the first session when she made proposals for her representatives in committees, do you know who she suggested? So that's Alimpic, among other things. Well, there's every time they get to the Belgrade City Assembly, this Alimpic is following them, and I don't know who he's carrying the purse and who he's instructing there? Are you in co-operation with him, as with Bastac, a member of Gilas's presidency in the Old Town, and do you participate in these insubordinations today? Here, that's a good question to explain.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57108	The word has the People's Messenger Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57109	It's not important anymore, but it's more important to me now, Martinović came to call me now, he's the authority for you, Mr. Orlic, and he teaches you well, you're his student and you're making some progress. I'd like to call his 2009 speech, so why not the others, here's Arsic. I'll quote you, too, will you? Well, like Marco, let me say-- finished the quote. So it's a nice thing my colleague Martinovic said -- the same Constitution was now, it's the same today. The exact same member, almost the first law. What is the communal police, what are her powers, and a nice man said it was an organ that formed, which should only be at the highest level of government, and that units of local self-government, as he said it then, excuse Martinovic a little paraphrasing you, but I can read everything. I'm sorry, but you were right back then. ) Here's what he says: - It's just enough to look at the start of this law that establishes the Communist Police, which tells us what to do with the Communist Police, to do business in matters of communal activity and protection of the environment, people and goods, it's all there is. And now here to provide protection, it provides for a non-interrupted performance. We all know that they appear equally in municipalities and cities and in the city of Belgrade. Why should citizens living in Belgrade have the protection of municipal police, and people living, say, in municipalities should not have protection. Problems occur both in municipalities and in cities, so it is impossible to make such discrimination and, of course, coercion and repression to one state, Martinovic says nicely – "They can only use state authorities, and above all, the police." So, indeed, every argument today is to defend. The fact that you've changed a single member of the law... (Miss Radeta: If the Communist Army could... Yeah, he says nice, so communal then the military, the municipal prosecutor's office, the communal one, uh... That would lead us to that list. You have no argument for this today. Well admit it, Branko Ruzic then supported the law, he was in power, here and now he's a minister, a man welcomed after ten years, what kind of a problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57110	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. The word has been made by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57111	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, here, Mrs. Natasa Jovanovic quoted me as saying, I think it's 2009 speech. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: Yes. I don't have much to change my mind about. So, in 2009, the municipal police, as it was then called, were only the privilege of Belgrade's city and local self-government units that had the status of the city. This law on the municipal militia, the right to form a municipal militia, has all the municipalities in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, thus correcting the mistake that was then made, so there is no difference in that sense in my understanding of the municipal police, that is, the municipal militia in 2009 and today. What I wanted to draw your attention to, since Mrs. Radeta said yesterday about the law being unconstitutional, I would draw your attention to Article 178. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which says, "The Republic of Serbia can entrust the law to autonomous provinces and units of local self-government with certain issues of its jurisdiction." In this case, it is the law on the municipal militia of the Republic of Serbia, precisely through the law that this National Assembly will vote on, entrusts units of local self-government with certain rights and obligations from areas that we could define the fastest – maintaining public order and peace. So the law is absolutely in line with the Constitution, as is usually the case with the law of local self-government units, which are normally in the jurisdiction of the state, but can be easier, faster and more efficient to do at the level of local self-government. If we were to look at things as you do, then let's say the municipalities could never come into a situation where their authorities are making a solution to the administrative procedure, because the adoption of a solution to administrative procedure is one of the rights that is exclusively state-owned, but we know very well that in many legal areas the general administrative procedure is governed by the authorities of municipalities, or cities. Furthermore, inspection supervision is also an exclusive job of the state administration. It also trusts local self-government units in various areas of social life, such as environmental protection, sanitary inspection, certain elements of market inspection, health inspection, educational inspection, and so on. So, this law is only one in a series of laws that exist in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, which the Republic of Serbia has entrusted to local self-government units as part of its competence and part of its powers. A good step has now been made in relation to 2009, because in 2009, municipal police, as I said at the beginning of my presentation, were in some way a privilege exclusively to the city of Belgrade and the units of local self-government that had according to the Law on Territorial Law of the Republic of Serbia, the status of the city. Now this right to have a municipal militia extends to all units of local self-government. So any municipality can form its own service to the municipal militia and thus be one of the citizens' services in solving their problems, which, I say, in the broadest sense can be influenced by the notion of maintaining and protecting public order and peace. I think this is important for another reason. What is usually referred to as a regular police force, so the police that are part of the MUP, I think that this law partially relieves those jobs that are objectively capable of doing very well and communal militias, so that regular police will now have more opportunities to deal with what is their primary task, which is to fully protect public order and peace, to reveal the perpetrators of criminal and criminal offences and to prepare evidence for the prosecution in appropriate court proceedings. That is, by the way, the task of police everywhere in the world, as well as in the Republic of Serbia. What we could hear in the debate so far is a little tense, if you let me say, examples of possible abuses by municipal militiamen, and then we went to some really extreme banal situations how municipal militants can behave in certain places, in certain situations, and towards certain citizens. I'm not saying I can't and I'm not saying there's no possibility of abuse, but, you know, the possibility of abuse exists when it comes to public authorities. You have no absolute guarantee when it comes to state authorities, the Ministry of the Interior, any other ministry, government, courts, public prosecutors, etc., that there will be no abuse in certain situations. If we look at things that way, then we can say that we don't really need any authorities, because they're possible abuses. Well, it's also possible for the court to abuse the law, and it's possible that the police can use the law regularly, it's possible that the public prosecutor's office can abuse the law, it's possible that the customs administration abuses the law, it's possible that a whole series of state authorities abuse the law, and then we say there's a possibility of abuse, we don't need those authorities. It's about the arguments of these colleagues who think we don't need the municipal militia because there's a possibility of abuse. You have one rule since Roman law. Abuse does not stop use. So, just because a right or some authority can be misused doesn't mean that that right doesn't have to exist. Therefore, a municipal militiaman can abuse his powers, but the law also prescribes sanctions for those who abuse the powers given to them by the Law on the Communist Militia. We're not in a situation right now that municipal militiamen can do whatever they want, they can, as you say, arrest citizens, beat them, use other means of coercion in those situations where they're not allowed to do it, and do it unpunished. The law doesn't allow that. Therefore, the law makes it very clear in which situations communal militiamen can possibly carry out certain acts of coercion and in the event that they are abused they will be sanctioned, as a regular policeman can abuse the right to use a rubber bat or use firearms, but it will be sanctioned for it. It's the same situation with municipal militias. That there is a general need in the Republic of Serbia for a service called the municipal militia, I think it exists, and I think we're all aware of that. Each of our local self-government to a greater or less extent suffers from something called a communal mess. We are responsible for this, too, for the good part, for our citizens. It's not just the state's fault and it's not just the community or the city. We're the ones burying, for example, these floods have shown. We're the ones throwing waste into the canals. We're the ones making wild dumps. Some Germans and Swedishs or Turks did not come, so they made us wild dumps in Serbia. That's what we do who live in Serbia, to be completely open, because one part of our citizens, and sometimes I count myself, I don't run away from that kind of responsibility, we just don't have enough culture of life in the community and we throw things where they don't belong or do something else that's contrary to communal order, and we really need to worry about the municipal militia. And the way we need her. Go all over Serbia, from north to south, and you'll see how many wild dumps there are, how many municipalities, some things you can't see anywhere in the world, not in the west, not in the east. It just seems to me that we as a nation are still not in this situation that we can do it alone, without the help of the state and without the help of local self-government, take care of the communal order. We still need some kind of social emancipation so we don't have the things that happened to us, say, in 2014 or that happened a few days ago, say, in the Palilu municipality. In 2014, you had a situation where individual channels in Vojvodina caused huge damage because we who live in these areas in these canals instead of cleaning them, that we kept them, and these canals were made even in the time of Austro-Hungarian, we threw dead pigs, refrigerators, old furniture, etc. Heavy rains and canals simply couldn't receive that much water because they were buried with things that didn't belong there and floods occurred in places where otherwise the flood couldn't theoretically happen, and it happened precisely because of the communal mess. Such examples were now in the Palilu municipality. The state is trying to help, the municipality is trying to help, but in some situations we citizens have to show a far greater degree of responsibility. If we don't show it, then there's a communal militia that needs to help us in some way. I wouldn't have experienced a communal militia the way you're experiencing it, exclusively as an organ of repression. I think the role of coercion in the operation of the municipal militia is completely secondary. What's more important here is that the municipal militia will help local self-government and, above all, citizens to keep their municipalities, or their cities clean, to be nicer, to be neater, and to have no more problems we've had in recent years. This is a good public service, which will benefit the citizens of Serbia. I hope there won't be as much abuse as you've talked about, and even if it is, the law very clearly provides sanctions for those who violate those regulations. I think the general law is in accordance with the Constitution. The law is good. The law is one regulation that will help all local self-governments in Serbia to have more municipal order. I don't think there's any big problems to be expected. After all, the practice will show, as with any law, whether we were right or you which criticise this law, but that we generally need a service that will and how to take care of the municipal order and the wider public order and peace and, in some ways, to assist the authority in the regular police, I think we absolutely need it. Citizens will be safer, local self-government will have more communal order and there will be no life problems that have been happening to us over the past years, which, as you can see, have caused enormous damage. After all, when you look at all our negligence, all our non-compliance with the rules, who does it come to? State again. Who are the citizens who have suffered the floods because they have buried the canals by their own houses? Well, the country. The state will help, and it is not controversial, the state needs to help, but in order for such things not to happen to us, I think that the law on the municipal police, or the militia, is one of the laws, I am not saying that it is all-powerful and that it will solve all problems, but it is certainly one of the laws that will help us to no longer have those problems that we have throughout Serbia, especially in the conditions of these extreme climate changes which, as you can see, have a negative impact on both nature and the whole of life.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57112	Thank you. Right on line, National MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. (Alexandra Belačić: Rules of Procedure. According to the Rules of Procedure? No, you don't, my colleague, Radeta. [[Verica Radeta: I have a right to replication.]] (The Faith of Radeta: He mentioned me by name and by name, what is wrong with you? No, it's not. (Alexander Martinovic: I mentioned her. ) (The Belief of Radeta: Good, according to the amendment. ) First according to the Rules of Procedure, she is a colleague of Belačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57113	Mr. Arsic, I advertised article 108 a half hour ago. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and I can't believe I have to advertise it for the same reason now. I'm a little embarrassed, but I have to draw attention to the fact that the people of the Service were coming, that they took out the cards of the absence MPs and that right after the people left the Service, the cards ended up in the system again. The SRS parliamentary group considers that the right of every MP and to attend the session and to be absent from it and we have nothing against, given that only a few more active and experienced MPs of the ruling majority participate in today's debate, the rest are absent and used their time in some other way, as long as the state of the system monitors the number of MPs present in the hall. You of the ruling majority are constantly drawing attention that you have won the largest number of votes in the elections, that citizens have massively given you trust, so it is simply amazing that such a force and such a machine cannot introduce a elemental order among its MPs. The citizens are looking at you and not just at you citizens, watching you and your president, going next election, making a list, don't mind him. So, if I can help you, start with this first group on my left, and your right side... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57114	I'm not a communal officer, not a cop, not a cop, not a cop, not a cop chasing MPs in the O.R. because they didn't take their cards out. It's the job of the Service, first you learn it. So that's the job of the National Assembly, not the chairman. I can't keep track of everyone if they took the card out or didn't. If that's the only way you can come up with a political struggle, to accuse the MPs you disagree with because they didn't take the card with you, then to know that you're causing problems not to the MPs, but to the Service. I don't see what the problem is. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in voting day about the breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Alexandra Belačić: No need. There's no need. Right on the line, the People's Messenger of the Prophet Verica Radet, and then Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57115	Mr. Martinovic, everyone here will accept the fact that you're a skilled lawyer, but let me, as a less skilled person, try to briefly explain everything you said. First, you say you are aware that this law should and you are aware that this law is in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Now, you see, we are not aware, it took you 10 years to become aware that such a law is in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, we seem to need more, because the Constitution has not changed. What you said 10 years ago, there's no reason to change. It has nothing to do with politics. It has to do with interpreting the Constitution. You were a kind of a lawyer back then, and I guess you read the Constitution the right way. So you can't have what the political views are that you're trying to say right now – then it wasn't in accordance with the Constitution, now it is. That's not good. Next, you quoted Article 178 here. A constitution that, truth, allows you to trust jurisdiction, but not all competences can be trusted. Is it possible to trust the local self-government of the prosecution, courts, armies, and neither is the police. Why isn't this organized as a fire department, as a Gendarmere within the Ministry of the Interior? It's just our question, and by no means possible, it wasn't possible this way. After all, you spoke like this ten years ago when there was talk of this law, the Law of the Community Police. What you've been saying about what the municipal militia is going to do, all that can do by law and the municipal police, so what doesn't work? The question, too, why did you translate the law enforcement authorities into criminal courts?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57116	You're bringing the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57117	I'm just asking one more sentence. If it's because of the abuse, you said you were brought out of the courts and pulled out the execution procedure for misappropriation in the courts. So you denied what you said.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57118	Legally on the line, National MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic and Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57119	No one argues, Mr. Martinovic, that there should be a municipal order in the state and we have instructed various examples during the principle debate yesterday, but here I am going to give you an example from perhaps further history. In the 19th century in Belgrade, and also in some later major cities such as Kragujevac, Nis and possibly Novi Sad, so-called "the Kragujevac" were formed. ‘Patrols’. It was one unit within the Department of Police...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57120	My colleague, bring your cards along with you, I don't care if it hasn't been identified.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57121	... which dealt precisely with the fact that in Belgrade, they were wearing lanterns, they had a different uniform than Gendarmeria, from the police, maintained order, that there was no noise and noise from these city cafes, that there were no such street situations, but now that you're defending, and 10 years ago you said correctly as Dr. Legal Science, because here it's about the amendment that I just filed, which is the measures, the use of the means of coercion. He was even more honest with the previous promoter. He taxfully listed what these are measures of coercion that can't be handled by municipal police officers. We advocate that there is a special unit within the MUP, but that they cannot have powers. The promoter, whether so, Mr. Ruzic, 10 years ago, stated in 2009 that this is the use, so they say the means of coercion, and they have a tight, physical strength, official staff and means of binding. We don't know what the use of the means of coercion is here, so there may not be any surprises. We didn't go to this during our discussion that it was just going to be the municipal police, to hit the pendejos, to tie up, but the point is that it was anti-constitutional authority given. Secondly, Mr. Martinovic, municipalities can and do not have to form, and on the other hand, where units of local self-government form them, who controls their work? Chief of Police. When you look at it, neither the council nor the city council, as the highest authority at the level of local self-government, have anything to do with it. Let him tell us, if he wants to be honest and Minister Ruzic, over the past seven years, how many times have the tests to pass these psychophysical abilities passed by certain municipal police officers now, future militants? Only twice. So, you compare it, you give them that opportunity to use a means of coercion, and these regular cops, and also the members of the fire departments that they have within the MUP every year, and very, very serious and detailed and tests and physical strengths and psyches and all they need to do this job. Well, where do you need to subdue some boundaries and lines?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57122	Thank you. I have my name, I'm not this one, I'm not that one. Right on line, Dr. Alexander Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57123	Thank you. Here, I draw attention to fellow SRS officers to another member of the Constitution that goes in favor of this law. This is Article 137. In the interest of a more efficient and rational exercise of the rights and obligations of citizens and meeting their need for direct interest in life and work, the law can entrust certain tasks, therefore, certain jobs, not all, specific tasks from the jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia, the autonomous province and the local self-government unit. Some public authorities, therefore, are very precise, some public authorities can also be entrusted by law to companies, institutions, organisations and individuals. So even individuals, even individuals, can be entrusted with certain public powers. From the point of view of the Constitution, there's no problem. These are, of course, the powers of the state authorities that the Republic of Serbia, through law, entrusts to units of local self-government and that is in accordance with the Constitution, the Constitution allows. I have already drawn attention that this is happening in some other areas of law, not only when it comes to the municipal militia, the conduct of the administrative procedure. Radeta, a colleague, mentioned the issue of misdemeanor courts. Well, according to the Constitution, municipalities are competent to prescribe violations of municipal regulations. Right? Then, if you were to read and interpret the Constitution so hard, then we could say it's also against the constitution. If the municipality can prescribe violations of its regulations, I don't see any reason why it can't have its own communal militia.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57124	Thank you. Right on line, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57125	You read well and said, colleague Martinovic, to trust certain jobs. When you say it, it has to be distinguished. That's what you really said ten years ago. These powers, such as the measures of coercion, the possible repression that happens at that moment, means that the physical integrity of that man is violated, if he binds, cuffs are placed on him, hit with a stick, etc., that they can only have state authorities. Imagine now, you say – trusting certain jobs. Many state institutions, banks, have more cases like this, entrust security jobs to licensed security agencies. Imagine you now in a bank, here, there are colleagues who have worked and in these services, some of the citizens are making a problem at that moment, and these are the same entrusted business, believe me, by the law we voted in the Assembly, it's a very serious procedure, a maltene such and psychophysical readiness and a license to get, a much higher level than the municipal militia, so that you can set up this facility security agency, etc. So, if someone came in, any citizen in the bank, started making some kind of trouble, suffocating someone out there, choking, tearing down there, trying to get in the way of a bank clerk, what could this guy do? Well, he doesn't have those powers, the measures of coercion, repression, whatever. It can react until a certain moment, but also call the regulatory police, a regular police state authority that needs to do all of this and that will, in accordance with its powers, legally, do so. We argue about it, we don't argue at all about the fact that the municipal police as such exist, I'm telling you again.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57126	Thank you. Time. Right on line, Dr. Alexander Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57127	Now, it seems that the biggest problem is that the municipal militia can use certain means of coercion. I understand that's a big problem for you. But look at what it says in article 26. Just so we don't scare the citizens, there's no need for that. The means of coercion within the meaning of this law are: physical strength, therefore, is the strength of a man as an individual, means of bonding, a sprayer with an ardent fact and an official stick. The means of coercion can only be used by a municipal militia officer if, in other ways, these means of coercion can only be used if they cannot refuse simultaneously, beware, counter-attack. So, there's a situation where someone is making a counter-attack on a municipal militiaman, not a communal militiaman out of a pure peace beating of people, as you say, but that he's exposed to the attack. He has the right to use the means of coercion, but only if there is no other means. So, he was practically brought into a situation that the use of the means of coercion was at war with the ultima, the last means to which he could resort to refuse himself or another illegal attack. I don't see what the legal aspect of that is. You have one more thing I wanted to draw your attention to. According to our regulations, when it happens, for example. on a plane or on a ship, someone is using for example. A firearm in the wrong way, who has the right to take that weapon away from him? By our regulations, who? (Petar Jojic: Everyone. Not everyone. Not everyone can. Our regulations, Mr. Jojic, are very precise. The captain of the ship and the captain of the aircraft have the right to confiscate weapons from someone who illegally uses it on board, or on board a ship, in which both aircraft and ship can be absolutely privately owned, it can be a fully private airline, it can be a private ship, but it does public traffic. In case someone on board or on a plane unlawfully uses such an example. Firearms, you say everyone, captain of the ship, or captain of the airship, have the right to apply the necessary measures to confiscate that weapon, that is to say, to reject the counter-attack from themselves or from another. (President: I thank you. Here, I'm done. So, in that sense, what it says in the municipal militia law is completely synchronised with other of our regulations. Later on, I'm going to say something else about these coercions, how many regular police don't even use them in some situations, when they should, let alone the municipal militia.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57128	Thank you. Right on line, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57129	It must not be given at all the opportunity, Mr. Martinovic, that someone has such powers and that they are in a position to overstep them. I can't decide, so let's just say that someone in the beginning is going to have to do it in their head. But any chance of that happening is dangerous. Should I remind you of Mr Milicevic's 2015 release in Boulevard, who didn't have a ticket on the bus as a passenger? He said, and it was unequivocally determined by his medical examination, that two municipal police officers beat him so much that they broke his nose, that this one time his arm was as far apart as he hit him. You know, if it happened once, there's always a possibility, no one says, and nobody encourages them now, God forbid, they do it or they break those powers, but then they can't do it, and then they don't do it. So, I can't allow legal possibility for them to do it, especially because of the fact, and I'm going back to it again, that although this law has been prescribed, let's take a good look at these members, when they and who they give assurances of their psycho-physical ability, it's not the same as the people who are the regular composition of the state police. The police know very well, here you are, and now at the end of your exposure you said, and you're trying in many situations to refrain and to have that high threshold and degree of tolerance, but they're learning it. They're no ordinary coursers, when I have to use that expression, like these municipal militiamen. They're people who went to formal school to do police work and know exactly what time and how to react. And what you said to your colleague Jojic, that is, he told you from the bench, you know what, a man when he was attacked, everyone has the right to defend his physical integrity, everywhere and in every place, to defend himself as he knows and can.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57130	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. Right on line, Aleksandar Martinovic. Yes, yes, you will receive the right to a replica, Mr. Jojiæ, you are mentioned. Here you go, Dr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57131	You say everyone has the right to defend themselves. And what about those situations where someone isn't able to defend themselves? Someone is able to refuse himself or another illegal attack, as it says in the law. But what about the people who aren't able? They absolutely need to assist the municipal militia in some situations. What I was about to say in the previous presentation, well, here we are now witnessing over the past few months as the regular police abstained from applying the means of coercion, in those situations where it was legally and how it had the right to use it. So, let me remind you. In 2017, we were waiting here for two or three months, MPs of the Serbian Progressive Party and other MPs, outside the National Assembly, insulting, cursing, throwing, even trying to carry out physical attacks, etc. The police abstained. A few weeks and months ago, you had a situation that they'd hit the RTS with a chain saw. The police didn't, or used minimally, the means of coercion. They forced a truck into the presidency building with the intention of physically jeopardizing the security of the president of the Republic. The police were practically protecting their bodies from the presidency building. She didn't use any means of coercion. What is happening today in Serbia is a completely different situation than what we had until 2012. You know very well how in a tragic situation police powers were abused. You have now set an example of a man who was beaten up by a municipal militiaman and I have no doubt that it happened. You remember very well, as I remember, we were together at that rally, how they broke Ranka Panic's head with their police boots, right? It's a classic example of abuse of police authority. (President: Thank you, Dr Martinovic. But the fact that someone, a regular police or a municipal militia, can possibly abuse their powers and use coercion does not mean that they absolutely need to be excluded from being able to use coercion in certain situations when the law is allowed.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57132	Thank you, Dr. Martinovic. The right to replica has Mr Petar Jojic. Here you go, colleague Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57133	Mr. Martinovic, I guess we didn't understand each other. From a formal-legal point of view, you were right to have on board and on board a formal right to confiscate firearms are captains. You're right about that. However, everyone has the right, who is on board and on board, in the event of an attack and intends to use weapons, every passenger on board and on the plane has the right to control the terrorist and the attacker and to take away his weapon. So I think in that part we've now made it clear that there's been a misunderstanding. However, you have now said that the behaviour of certain political parties and individuals on the streets is as you described it and that the police have always abstained. If I were a minister of police, I wouldn't hold back. There would be no tent in front of the President of the Republic. There wouldn't be this rampage. This isn't the Wild West. The government must be the one to protect the people from violence. The instrument for overcoming such violence is the competent state authorities entrusted by this state with powers to protect the sovereignty, security of citizens and security of property. Therefore, if I were a minister of police, in my day, it could never have happened. The police have the authority, I'm just asking them to apply them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57134	Thank you, colleague Jojic. The right to replica has Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57135	Here, I like to mix with my colleagues, they're good lawyers, they have a lot of life experience and legal experience. Mr. Jojic, I was talking about a specific situation when someone on a plane or on a boat, for example, walks with a gun, no one attacks him. Simply, a man walks on a plane with a gun and no one touches him. Who has the right to take away his weapon? According to our regulations, the captain of the ship, or captain of the aircraft, is using appropriate means of coercion. And in that sense, it's not any specificity that's now only about municipal millionaires. As for what you said that, in your opinion, the police should use their full powers against bullies such as Djilas, Jeremic, Bosko Obradovic and similar to them, I agree formally with you there. But then you would have on all sides an unprecedented grace and noise about how Serbia is a non-democratic state, how we threaten the right to a peaceful gathering of citizens, how we are dictators, how we are fascists, etc. I showed you some of the front pages of the NIN yesterday, "Time", "Today", etc. (Miss Radeta: Nothing on cartoons? .......................................................................................................... Well, I guess they couldn't draw it, but they'll draw it for sure. Here's your cartoon. Although, we didn't, Mrs. Verice, neither did you, nor I on that cartoon, but, look. Dusan Petricic, who said yesterday that all those who vote for the Serbian Progressive Party are some lunatics, assholes, illiterate, etc., drew a cartoon. And now look. Tanks, this is the SNS tank with this dead-head flag, and then the SPS tank, then the SNS tank, and then the hook-cross tank. Where are we going? In Croatia or Kosovo? ) We're on our way, I don't know where either, so we should ask Dusan Petricic, who seems to be very smart, so he identifies Serbia with a fascist state. So we're in a very specific situation, when the police must have a much higher tolerance threshold than they should otherwise have, because our country is in a rather specific situation and what we think is evil, it's considered to be something that's completely normal in some other countries. You've seen, for example, the French or Belgian police, both in uniform and in civilian, deal with what's called the so-called. Yellow vests. (President: Thank you, Doctor. Here, I'm done. If something like this were to happen in Serbia, I think that all possible heads of the EU Mission, various ambassadors, various human rights defenders and freedoms, would jump on all of us together here sitting here and saying that we are fascists, that we are dictators, that we are violent, etc. Therefore, a special confession should be given to our police, which shows a high threshold of tolerance, even in those situations where their lives and their physical security are at stake. Remember what Dragan Gilas threw one cop - where you're going to work and where you're going to be when I come to power? It's an unspeakable haughtiness.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57136	Thank you, Dr. Martinovic. The right to replica has Petar Jojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57137	Dear Mr. Martinovic, I would not agree with you in that part, that the police must suffer humiliation and experience what our police had experienced in 2000 on October 5th. You remember when they disarmed the mangoons police station in Mother Jerosima, when thousands of firearms, long and short, and battle kits disappeared and stolen from that station. Then they sold it, smuggled it and abused it. We've had opportunities to see really correct behavior of police officers, but there are limits to tolerance. We can't let the streets bully, chicanize, humiliate individuals from the organs of the MUP, i.e. Officers, that and the state. At least appropriate measures must be applied there. No tolerance. The country's reputation must be protected. Everything they do, they take pictures on TV and show themselves abroad. An ugly picture of our security authorities is being sent, and our security authorities are just the strongest in this region and should, above all, support them. I support them as much as possible and ask them to establish public order and peace, because criminals, alleys and gangs on the street can no longer be tolerated.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57138	Thank you, dear Mr. Jojic. According to the amendment, MP Marijan Risticevic reported. Here you go, colleague Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57139	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there are one rules for me, there are other rules for each other. I suggest that the chairman buy himself a parliament and then regulate it in the way they think it is, in a private way. Article 104 is injured I don't know how many times. Cards are bought according to the chairman's orders, MPs who are out of the system, so which cards they didn't even leave in the system, are done what my proposal is to wait for one two, three hours to get the word, so, no problem. It's not the first time, not the last time, but you think it's funny. When I rebel, it's funny to you. If I laugh, I'll have a reason to laugh. You know, who laughs last, laughs the cutest. I can quit now, and I can talk. If the chairman of the permits, if I have the grace to say something, I'd say some public powers have citizens. Say, civil arrest. If a citizen can make a citizen's arrest and inform the police about it, I guess that right can also be given to a municipal police officer. That's exactly what it sounds like to me, but let it be. A communal police officer must have the same rights as a criminal, and I don't know what law he has the right to make a citizen. That's what some powers were passed on. Public authority of a citizen who can arrest another citizen when he commits crimes or if he is attacked himself, which is the case with a municipal militia, can make a citizen's arrest and inform the nearest police station about it, or bring him there. So much for whether they have rights or not. If that right has an ordinary citizen, then the right should certainly be used by the municipal militia. Let's say, as for Gilas, a man privatized the garage, fenced a piece of the garage. Is the garage public? Yes, it is. Ever since he was mayor he fenced himself and made out of a public garage private garage. He took three parking places and hello, goodbye. His was the municipal police, I guess she tolerated it. Therefore, the most important thing is that the municipal police are working under the law, by the rules, and not by the dictatorship of various mayors and municipal police were brutally abused during the time Dragan Gilas was mayor or, rather, the thief. We have a dual education going on the streets. Those of our literature professors, what's called, Bosko Ljotic Yankee, the one who loves American embassies, the honorary visitor, means first order, VIP personality at the American Embassy, I believe that Mr. Chairman was there, but he didn't have the privilege of being an honorary guest as vice president of the Assembly. Bosko Ljotic, probably called Yankee, had the honour of entering with all the honours of Scott at the American Embassy. For example, he's a professor of literature, but he's decided to change his profession. He called, as these traffic signs are such machine-making, then urged engineer Dragan Gilas to have a little dual education, and thus became a profession of character pickers. I think she was supposed to react to the municipal police or the municipal militia and prevent that dual education and the withdrawal of traffic signs. So before there are signs of warning, danger, obligation, etc., express orders, therefore, is a major threat to health, safety, security not only of traffic, but of people, pedestrians and non-driving. It's not right that some grandfather is seducing order in the Republic Square, seducing order when they're trying to stop it even in pedestrian traffic, what do I call it, instead of the municipal militia reacting to some grandfather, putting some Gilas there, what's the name of some Zemun character. So it's not right for citizens to defend themselves from the communal problems that make these dual-educated Marko Bastic, Dragan Gilas. The only thing that doesn't seem to be making communal problems is the wolf, he's just making noises. So, I don't think we need any more municipal police or the jilasu municipal militia, Bosici Ljotića Yankeea. They don't need the municipal militia, they're against the municipal militia now, they're causing communal problems. In the middle of Belgrade, Bastic is blocking the street with salt, which was intended for entrances to buildings last winter. So he got salt for the buildings, for the entrances of the buildings, and he didn't use it in winter, he put people's health at risk, especially the elderly, who can slip, who knows how many ended up on orthopedics. He took bags of that salt he didn't use when he was supposed to, he buried the street, and who's supposed to react there? It is up to the municipal police to react, or already the militia that didn't do it, and so I say that Gilas, Bosko Ljotic, etc., against the municipal militia, because they don't want to deal with the problems now, they want to make as many problems as possible. It's their political marketing and it's their political messages. One more thing, they don't need the municipal police, they need REM. REM does not do its job, the municipal police should not work on them, and REM should work even less, because if REM shuts down fake Schools, Gilas' cross-border channels, which is his obligation, then the business of School and Gilas, for which Bosko Ljotic Yankee is ready to die. He's not ready to give a white dinar for Kosovo anymore, but that's why he's ready to die for Solakov and Gilas's businesses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57140	Thank you, colleague Risticevic. I just wanted to tell you to look at article 128. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on Cards. (Marian Risticevic: Don't tell me anything.) ( ) As for this debate that we had and the replica, this was one truly democratic debate and it is in line with all the procedures in our Parliament. I can't fulfill anyone's wishes here, but let them order and procedure it. Please point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57141	You can, after I've been advertised by the Rules of Procedure, I'm already advertising Article 104 because you've just replicated to me. So, you can when I advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you're right, so when I advertise, when you give me a word in that, you have the right to explain to me that you haven't violated the Rules of Procedure. Since I didn't do it, you've now replicated me. I didn't ask you to explain anything to me. I just recorded your behavior. If you think such a number of replicas are allowed by this Rules of Procedure, you have the right to Article 104, but before they must be satisfied with the first two criteria, then you have discretionary right, when the first two criteria are met, then you have the right to determine whether or not you will give the replica. The replicas can't last four minutes. Now you want to tell me it's black, white black, and because you're the chairman, I have to admit it. So if you don't think you've violated the Rules of Procedure, that's your right. I'm asking to make this clear on the day of the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57142	Okay. Thank you for ordering me to break the Rules of Procedure. I don't think I hurt you. Let's get on with the work. There's a word, according to the amendment, Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57143	I thank the chairman. I'm glad we're back on the agenda and moving on to the amendments. What seems very important to me to point out, I will rely only on my esteemed colleague, Aleksandr Martinovic, whether it is necessary for the municipal militia to carry out and measure in the form of appropriate, restrictive, limited or, more specifically, applicable measures, such as measures of coercion. Is there a security service in the world that does not have the ability to use appropriate means of coercion in its business? I will remind you that the municipal police, or the current militia, do not exist only in Serbia, exists throughout Europe, there is also in the region. Dear Minister, I think you know the fact that Slovenia, which has no municipal militia, but has municipal redistribution, has a law that is far more repressive than this law we're talking about. Furthermore, Croatia and Montenegro also have communal police, i.e. municipal reding, also, if it is observed comparatively, we can see that they are far more repressive than they are systematised in this law. Now, we come to a key question, when these measures of coercion are applied, when is it necessary, and when is it prescribed by law? What is it that imposes the need to apply these measures? Because it can't even be done by a municipal inspector, it can't be done by a market inspector, it can't be done by any inspector. If an inspection comes out on the spot, Mr. Martinovic knows it from the administrative procedure, the inspector comes out on the spot, determines the actual state of affairs and that the record of the person he controlled -- here you go, sign the report, and, point, ends his jurisdiction. He cannot bring, nor can he bring in a perpetrator of any illegal act, he cannot give him an oral warning or an order, he cannot tell him – you will be there until a policeman comes to take action towards you. He can't do that. Who can do that? Well, it can be a municipal militiaman, and no one else can, but in a limited sense of the word. We're always going from the negative one, so the municipal militia officer won't use the means of coercion to beat the citizens, and he can't do that, because if he did, he'd do the crime, and there's a criminal responsibility for the crime. When we use such situations as an example, then we enter a dangerous zone, which is a generalisation zone, and generalization implies, well, they're all dirty, nasty, impertinent, sassy, beatings, hooligans, etc. Then we have a generalization of the judiciary, generalization in education, in health care, etc. We can't generalize here. Whoever abuses the powers that apply under this law has committed the least of its crimes, and it will certainly be responsible for that. I can accept and understand the subject of amendments that point to something else, whether it's a good kind of control and a way to control the operation of the municipal militia, we can talk about whether that control needs to be tightened. But no one here mentioned, except for this law, there are other normative acts that regulate this matter. There's a rule on the operation of the municipal police. Local units of self-government have the right to make their own decisions which specify the powers of the municipal police, because this law gives them. There are also restrictive ways of applying measures, and those security measures. Next, are they supposed to be educated? Of course they should be educated. I accept as correct, probably correct, the information that we received today from the applicant of the amendment, that education wasn't enough, but you, as legislators, and how well you know that at the time this previous Law on the Communist Police was brought in, there were a lot more problems, because the municipal police were fenced, so she said, we're not in charge of such a thing, call the police, call the MUP, we're in charge of green areas, we're in charge of parking space. So, what caused such iniquities or rude behavior? It caused what happened in Borca, which happened not far from us, where they were thrown, as you said, refrigerators, animals and what not, branches, etc., and there's the flood, there's the feces, there's everything. What could any inspector from the inspection service have done? Nothing, it comes out on the spot, it realizes -- that the feces have been poured out, we have large flooded areas, we have found that in writing and goodbye. On the other hand, the police didn't even react, because if someone had gone to the scene and been on the ground in continuity, they'd have found that someone threw in a sewer that serves to drain something that buried that canal, then there wouldn't have been a blockage of the canal, then it would have been processed. That is why the municipal militia is serving, and that is one of the reasons why this purpose should be supported. I'll be perfectly honest, I don't mind the proposal to integrate the municipal militia in the framework of the MUP business, but the question is, what do you get, how effective is that? Is it an effective way to operate a municipal militia prescribed by this bill or are we going to change and supplement the Law on Police, and then introduce some kind of sector to maintain the communal order? I don't think that's how efficiency is achieved, that this is a far more efficient way and that far easier and more effective achieves the goal that this law normally achieves. Finally, what is very important to point out, all that is prescribed by other laws is also agreed in the provisions of the proposed law. All these measures that are systematized here, which are applied from warning to gathering notices, which means coercion, already exists, only here in a different way, and applied by limited application. The repression can't be like other situations. I have to mention something else that's not mentioned. We also have environmental police, who also have the right to use appropriate measures of repression. We also realized that we were able to use similar measures by other competent authorities. The tax administration withdraws the case, withdraws the legal person's documentation which controls the tax control process, the market inspection also subtracts the relevant items, conducts the proceedings. These are compatible measures or identical measures with this, there's no big difference. So nothing here has happened, nothing is prescribed by this law which would increase the rate of repression compared to what already exists. You have regular services in national parks. The National Park “Tara”, the National Park “Mokra Gora”, “Fruška Gora”, etc. You have regular services that also use appropriate means that involve exclusively means of security, and there are determined by the perpetrators of certain anti-legal behaviours who is, in what way they do and process. So, on that side, I don't think critics are justified enough, but again, with respect and understanding, I'm going to have to respect what's said when it comes to the possibility of adopting other laws that are going to improve in any case something that implies a basic goal. The primary goal is the full security of the citizens. A few years ago, just because of the application of the Law on municipal redistribution, Ljubljana became the safest city in Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57144	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. National MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 18th amendment. Here you go, Mrs. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57145	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, within the framework of Article 18, which prescribes the kind of authority of the municipal militia in the performance of the affairs, we have intervened with the amendment in the act of authority relating to the collection of information and we have requested that this point of Article 18 be deleted, because it is completely unclear on what basis this right is given to the municipal militia. The other powers of the municipal police are controversial, and my colleagues have already spoken about it, and so are my colleagues who will speak after me. But I'd like to talk about the paper in this bill, it's that the municipal militia can do a job in a civilian and you can justify working without an official uniform you find in under-effective work and in detecting marked vehicles on the ground, which makes it impossible for the patrol to determine on-site the conduct of a certain offence. However, this raises the question of what conditions and what jobs a municipal militiaman will do without an official uniform. As a rule, that is, the law provides for the municipal militia to act, that is to say, to do the work in uniforms, but that according to the written order of the Chief, it can do without the official uniform. Under what conditions is this and why is there no limit on what conditions can a job be done without a uniform? We believe that such a concise law will create conditions for numerous abuses, and this law will not allow the municipal militia to be more effective in introducing the communal order, because the municipal police have not justified the trust of citizens who defiance all these changes and the broad powers you have now given to the municipal militia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57146	Thank you, colleague Nikolic. The word has Olivera Ognjanović, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57147	Thank you, Chairman. The amendment says this - in Article 18 paragraph 1 point 9) is deleted? Point 9) says - gathering notices. How does a community militia do this if they don't collect intel? At paragraph 27 of this bill, it is stated – a municipal militia officer can collect information, information and information from a person who is reasonably presumed to have the same information. Then, in Article 29, it was explained -- the municipal militia keeps records of submissions, petitions and citizens' proposals. So here I am, specifically, in the area of Grocka, last year we invested over four million on the removal of wild dumps. What's it supposed to be, now a municipal militiaman is going and constantly looking for the location of someone who's dumping the waste? So, if he gets a notice, he'll normally do the same thing, and he says right here that there will be records of it and that it will be handled in accordance with the powers he has. Therefore, I suggest that this amendment not be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57148	Thank you, colleague. The right to replica has Rose Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57149	Mr Marinkovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have requested that the point of Article 18 be deleted, as we asked to be deleted and the other powers provided for by this Article 18. We also asked that the entire article 18 be deleted, because we believe that too broad powers are given to the municipal police and that the municipal police cannot in this way exist and should be within the framework of the MUP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57150	Thank you, Mrs. Nikolic. The word has Minister Branko Ruzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57151	Thank you, Chairman. I am truly grateful to all the MPs from all the parliamentary groups who have turned this debate into a democratic exchange of views with arguments pro and vice versa. What is certainly significant, because of the public and the citizens, is the highest legal act of our country, I think it is important to say that it is not mentioned, in my opinion, the most important member of the Constitution, which is Article 190. The Constitution, paragraph 1, which clearly defines that local self-governments regulate and ensure the performance and development of municipal activity. So, he's in charge and he's in charge of security. Also, some of the heads of parliament, on the trail of what you have practically polished, have also mentioned article 137 regarding trust, of course, work. What is essential here, therefore, all these amendments from this morning are related to Article 18 and to the powers laid down in Article 18, and are later being discussed in Article 26, and that is what is also important to point out. The question of audio and video recording is mentioned. Video recording has been there, as you know, for ten years. Now it is an added audio recording. What is important for the public is that it is also a recommendation for the Guardian to introduce a recording in the conduct of the municipal police. There will be, of course, a rule that regulates the method of recording and notification of the intention of recording, and here it is in no way a matter of recording or listening to what appears to be on the prosecution's orders. So it's just not comparable to getting those two things mixed up. The question has been asked whether the municipal militia or the utility service should be part of the interior ministry or part of the police. The communal militia was created because of the local self-government unit's affairs and certainly the police can't do the work of a local self-government unit. Another reason is the dispensation of police composition, police cannot arrive and cover all situations that occur in violation of the municipal order in all municipalities across the Republic of Serbia. All the powers introduced here are practically the same and complementary to the applicable law, except stopping and reviewing vehicles and collecting notifications. The stop and inspection of the vehicle was established by the Law on the transport of passengers in road transport and this is practically just a alignment with the existing law, which we talked about yesterday. She's also concerned about who's going to play the role of municipal militiamen, what these people's psychophysical abilities are. I just want to point out that security and psychological checks are certainly foreseen for all candidates for the municipal militia, that before employment in the municipal militia in police training centres are two and a half months, so there is no fear that this job will be done by anyone else or anyone who is not worthy of that job or anyone who can endanger the social role and that service in any way or give Godless safety to citizens and citizens of Serbia. I remind you of what we said yesterday and in the principle debate. So, the example of Belgrade best defines that there was no abuse of authority, we had a first preventive one, so that's 14,000 warnings in 2018, we had 123,000 acts in 2018, and the means of coercion were used only in 16 cases and eight times physical strength, seven handcuffs and one stick. So, I think it's quite clear that there's a discrepancy between the number of actions and the use of the means of coercion. What is also important, one of the heads of parliament read, i.e. pointed to, very correct and quality, Article 26 of the proposed law, but the other attitude is also important, i.e. the third position of this member, which reads – in the way of use and restrictions, regarding the use of means of coercion, as well as legal and other assistance, in relation to their use, is applied accordingly to the law governing domestic affairs and sublaws on police powers and the way police are performed. So that argument just doesn't stand for one more reason. The main partners in the task force, which has worked on this municipal militia law, are just representatives of the interior ministry. So that everything was done in coordination, I also expressed my gratitude in the principle debate to the MUP, because we have come to a quality solution, which we are proposing to you, as far as you are concerned, primarily the social role of the community militia service, in the field of introducing and leading order, on communal order, and that is left, first and foremost, as an option, and not as an obligation, for the reason that this is part of the work of a local self-government unit, and politically we can or may not, that is not my role in this capacity here today, to consider or start a controversy whether we want a centralized or decentralised system. I think it is much more important to pay attention to the need for many functions, including this one to be decentralised in some way and to municipalities, or units of local self-government, in this particular case, to have the possibility, in accordance with what is at the focus of their priorities, to establish or not, the service of the municipal police. I wanted to simply answer some of the questions asked. I understand the manner of political struggle, I understand the amendments, which, above all, concern Article 18, will later be an amendment to Article 26, which discusses this Article 18, which is therefore the authority and development of that member, but I think that because of the citizens and citizens of Serbia, it is very important that I point first of all to the fact that there is no breach of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia as the highest legal act. While staying in this home for many years, I have realized that it is always a good argument to call for a violation of the Constitution, because it can sound very strong and strong and alarm in some way to which the MP is addressed, it is certainly the bearers of the sovereignty of this country. For this reason, I wanted to separate all these doubts and concerns which, of course, are in some parts and legitimate, as is legitimate to talk about one of the powers, so we are not talking about bringing in or legalizing. So I haven't noticed that in the application of the Law on the Communist Police, in relation to this authority, in the past 10 years there have been any cardinal complaints in that regard. So that would be the same for you if you were to say that when you talk about these psychophysical traits of municipal militias, it's like saying that you should forbid members of the M.O.P. to carry guns, because God forbid, they can kill someone. So I accept the political struggle, the argument, sometimes the banalization of certain things, but simply because of the public, I think it is important for the citizens to point out the importance of the law that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of State and local self-government has proposed here. Not only of importance but also of the essence and social role of the community militia service, which will certainly be seen in some future period. I am sure that it will be helpful for both the MUP and the citizens, as well as the local budgets, because this is also a way to practically not only introduce the municipal order, and not only to deal with public order and peace, but to, of course, co-operate with the competent inspections and the budget of local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57152	Thank you, Minister Rose. The word is "Verica Radet." Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57153	Minister, it's nice that you put the government's position here, certainly your position, because you were part of the government in that other combination ten years ago, and this is certainly something you think is necessary, but it's not good that you tried to caricate what we're doing here at the end of your debate. So we're not talking about order here, we're talking about argument here, we're saying not just political attitudes, but we're making legal arguments here. These are our political views, and above all, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia must be respected. You initially said that Article 190. The constitution's first position, item 1, says the municipality's competence is to regulate and ensure the implementation and development of municipal activities. No one questioned that, but it doesn't say here that a group should be formed that needs to be beaten up by the people. So, do we have communal directors? Do we have a communal inspection? Now, the problem is you in power, first of all from local authorities, you don't manage to get those people in line, you fail to get them in line to do their job. Just because they're corrupt doesn't mean there won't be any of these communal militiamen. Why did you get the need to turn the municipal police into a communal militia? Is that sorry about that time when that old former Yugoslavia was a federal militia, a republican militia, a province and a local militia? The local militia was only used to calculate local officials with its insinuators, its opponents, even their own. You're not doing this here. So we don't mind introducing a river into communal activity. We don't mind if it exists within the MUP groups, organisations, whatever they call them, like the gendarmes, which would help the communal directors and the communal inspectors. We differ here in concept, and no one can say in any way that we want to support the communal mess. No, on the contrary.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57154	Thank you, colleague Radeta. Member of the 18th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Here you go, Mr. Jojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57155	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister with his associates. This law is impossible to apply. Until the Internal Police Act is amended, the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Law on Public Order and Peace, the Transport Safety Act. Because what do we have in practice? In practice we now have to form parallel police, police. And she's given those powers that can't be given to police communal. And besides, we're about to give her long pipes and machines. However, ladies and gentlemen, under Comparative Law, I would not agree that we are applying the parallel rights of Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro or Albania. Let's see how France, Germany, England, Italy regulates it. Well, you'll see there are the powers of certain services. There you will see that no one on the street can intercept and take him. Where to take him? Yes, but on a court order, not in any other way. Secondly, by this law, gentlemen, you have not guaranteed the rights of the suspects to commit the offence. Do they have the right to defend themselves? They're entitled to French law and German law. They have the right from the first moment, if someone is to be brought from Murtenica to Uzice, to be informed and his family, to be allowed to talk to a lawyer, he has to be taught that he has nothing to say that could harm him in the process. We don't need the municipal police, or the municipal militia, absolutely. Look at the powers. You're speaking, Mr. Minister - it's not the authority given by the prosecutor. Wait, please. According to Article 25. The bill, the full takeover of the police's authority by the authority of the municipal militia officer, is higher than the authority of regular police officers. According to the Code of Criminal Procedure, the provisions of Articles 171, 172 and 173 may be taken, photographed, fingerprinted, but ordered by a public prosecutor. So, it turns out that we have the same powers as the local militiaman and regular police.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57156	Thank you, Mr. Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57157	Therefore, only if you allow me to, in article 53, cross the final provisions, and what I am about to say, Mr Martinovic knows well. You, Professor Martinovic, well know what "vakacio legis" means, and take the transitional and final provisions of this law. This, Mr. Martinovic, I believe that you would never accept, nor would such a proposal give, how many years should be postponed, applied, deadlines for the adoption of the rules of the authority of the state administration, then deadlines for the adoption of acts and regulations, etc. So I don't think this law is necessary. Second, he's going to cost billions of taxpayers, local citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57158	Thank you, colleague Jojic. The right to replica has Dr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57159	This "vakacio legis" knows every lawyer, that means waiting for the law, that is, some period of time between law-making and its entry into force. But here I am, Mr. Jojic, I do not see that the Constitution has been broken, when it comes to the law and other general acts in force. Article 59. The bill on the municipal militia says nicely – this law takes effect on the eighth day since the day of its publication in the Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia. So "vacacio legis" is the eighth day since the day of publication. This is the constitutional deadline under Article 196. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, so I don't see where you saw the problem. I don't see that for two, three or more years. This law enters into force within the ordinary constitutional deadline, which is the eighth day since the day of publication in the Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia, so I don't think that part of your argument simply stands.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57160	Thank you, Dr. Martinovic. Right on line, Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57161	Mr. Martinovicu, article 54, stands – deadlines for the adoption of the rules of the state administration authority. This is not the case when it is passed and adopted, but these other regulations, which apply – the rules for the implementation of this law by the minister responsible for the local self-government system, will be passed within a year of the date of entry into force of this law. What's it gonna take, a year? It doesn't take a month. Rules must be laid down to monitor the enforcement and enforcement of the law. The deadlines for the adoption of acts and regulations of a unit of local self-government, as stated in Article 55, in units of local self-government which educates the municipal militia, in accordance with this law, the municipal, or city council, will bring the first strategic plan of the municipal militia within two years of the date of entry into force, and so on. For two years, we've given someone that he's harmonising and that he's bringing in the regulations that need to be applied, at the moment the law is passed, the entry into force, the short period of a month, shouldn't be more than two years and a year. I've talked about it, and I think these are the deadlines for following regulations that should allow law enforcement, because the law will be inadmissible in two years, if there are no regulations, if that's okay with you. On the other hand, let me say, there will be thousands of municipal militiamen here. In Serbia, this will cost salaries, contributions, vehicles, drivers, local self-government, business space, other equipment. Do you have any idea how much this country's gonna cost? So, a lot of taxpayers on the ground and you transferred it from the republic to the municipalities. The municipalities now have to cramp, especially where they are weak compared to the economy, compared to the power of the economy and the taxpayers who can pay for this. We're making the police unnecessary. This is bureaucracy inflation.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57162	Thank you, colleague Jojic. Right to the replica of Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57163	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Mr. Jojic, a member of 54th is a member of two positions. You only read the first attitude. In Article 54, the first term reads – the rules for the implementation of this law passed by the minister responsible for the system of local self-government, which is currently Mr Ruzic, will be passed within a year from the date of entry into force of this law. Then you have an attitude 2 that says – the regulations to enforce the law on the municipal police continue to apply until the relevant legislation laid down by this law is passed, if they are not contrary to the provisions of this law. In this respect, this proposal avoids legal gaps until new regulations are passed, i.e. sublegal acts for the application of the Law on the Communist Militia, the sublegal rules that have been laid down for the application of the Law on the Community Police, so that there is no legal gap. As far as the financial burden on local self-government is concerned, the law is very clear there. Each local self-government will be consistent with its financial opportunities to make a decision as many municipal militiamen as it needs. Those local self-governments that stand better, which have more stable and comprehensive budgets, will certainly have more municipal militants at their disposal. Those in poorer assets, or financial conditions, are likely to have fewer. After all, the law does not prescribe a commitment on local self-government to have the service of the municipal militia, but I leave the possibility, so in those most extreme situations if there are such units of local self-government in Serbia that really do not have the means to finance the municipal militia, and whoever may not have at this time, but there will probably come a time period when it will also be in a position to have this service. You are a witness just as I am, that the economic and financial situation in Serbia is significantly improved year by year from month to month. Our economy is getting stronger and stronger. We have a lot more investment than we had a few years ago. We have an increasing number of new jobs across Serbia. We have shown in practice how Serbia's economic decentralisation is being carried out. You don't have almost, I mean, any municipality or city in Serbia that didn't come at least one investor to open a production plant, so something from the real economy sphere and hire a certain number of citizens who live there. In that sense, I don't think this is going to be some big financial burden for local self-government units.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57164	Thank you, Dr. Martinovic. Right on line, Petar Jojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57165	It is indisputable that Article 54, paragraph 2, stipulates that the rules are laid down for the implementation of the Law on the Communist Police, and that the Official Journal, continue to apply until appropriate rules are laid down by this law if they are not contrary to the provisions of this law. I ask the question - what are two years of deadlines? What year or two will the deadlines match? Why don't you immediately access this law if it's passed, of course, and the municipal militia is under the law, not leaving this space and we wait until you and you are passed? My remark is that a large space has been left. It needs to be shortened, set a deadline, apply the law if you adopt it, and thus can be said that this law is in line with the transitional and final provisions. What I want to tell you is what Alexander Vukic is doing and what he's fighting for the construction of roads, factories, employment, this kind of example doesn't need to be disrupted. Therefore, and you know well, Mr. Martinovic, that the yellow cavalry has passed more than 2,000 laws without even 10% being applied. Well, it's better to pass a good law that's going to be applicable than 100 of those that aren't good and can't be applied in practice. We're going to have a really big problem here -- the conflict of jurisdiction, because the rules apply here by both the police and local self-government, and then you see that these conflicts of jurisdiction are going to take place. There's no solution to who's going to solve these conflicts of jurisdiction. First, in any case, it is necessary to amend the Law on the Police, the Transport Safety Act, which is exclusively the right to regulate traffic, in all matters falls under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Transport and the Police Traffic Administration. Therefore, those regulations must be changed, and then we can say - they may be in accordance with the Constitution, as you say, transferred by authority. But we cannot now give authority to the local municipal militia of these powers, which fall under the exclusive jurisdiction of the M.O.P. I am sorry if the representatives of the MUP participated in the draft law group without taking care of whether some responsibilities would be in conflict with the Police Act if the law on the municipal militia was passed. As far as I'm concerned, the local police should deal with mosquitoes, cleanliness, fires, environmental protection, forest damage. Now, that's what I'd give to the communal police, but without long pipes and sticks.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57166	Thank you, colleague Joviæ. Here's Alexander Martinovic's answer, so again, you'll probably have a chance. Here you go, Dr. Martinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57167	No, Mr. Jojic, in this law of long utility pipes, no. So, the law is very clear that the means of coercion can be used – physical strength, means of binding, spraying with an ardent fact and official stick, so there are no long pipes. But what I wanted to tell you, you are now in your discussion returning everything to the beginning. You say there will be a conflict of jurisdiction between the regular police and the municipal militia. Well, it won't because the law on the municipal militia makes it very clear what the municipal militia is doing, as the Law on the Police says very clearly what the police involved in the MUP are doing. So there's no conflict of jurisdiction and there won't be any. What you'd like, and I'm not saying that your wish is bad, which is that whenever you have a new law, we have automatically prepared sublegal regulations for its application. Well, that would be an ideal situation, but you have to understand one procedural thing – who guarantees that the bill that enters the assembly procedure comes out of that congregation procedure in the same text in which it is proposed. People's MPs have the right to an amendment to intervene. The government has the right to intervene in an amendment. The committees of the Assembly shall have the right to amend the amendments to intervene and to amend certain legal norms proposed in the text of the draft law. And you can now come into a situation where, with the bill of law, you can also adopt a proposal for a sublegal act and then it turns out that this sublegal act is contrary to the law adopted by the National Assembly, because the National Assembly passed the law in something different than it looked at the moment it entered the assembly procedure. I've read you a great article in 54, if I'm not mistaken, Section 2 which prescribes that all sublegal acts that were applicable to the application of the Law on the Communist Police continue to apply until sublegal regulations are passed regarding the application of the Law on the Communist Militia. As far as this goes, these notes of yours about traffic regulation on the roads, and that's where I have to notice you're not exactly the end of management. Well, it happens that traffic roads are regulated by military police, right? The military police are not part of the MUP, but are part of Serbia's military, which is part of the defence ministry. What would now be a different situation than that provided for by this law is that in certain situations certain actions in the area of traffic regulation can also be carried out by the municipal militia. So, you're wrong in that sense that all traffic security operations are being performed by the Traffic Police, or the police as an authority within the MUP, are sometimes being done by the Military Police, you saw, after all, on the roads when a column of military vehicles comes in front of that column and behind that column, the military police vehicle is going. So, one body that's in the Department of Defense.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57168	Thank you, de Martinovic. Right on line, MP Petar Jojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57169	Mr. Martinovic, you're wrong this time. First of all, if the Transport Act, in Article 2(2), explicitly prescribed that the application of the Transport Safety Act should be carried out by the MUP through the police traffic management. Gentlemen, change that, and say: the exclusive jurisdiction in this part will be the MUP, the Traffic Police, and this will be in the jurisdiction of the Communist Police. Secondly, in the bill of this law, I have noted but neither you nor the minister have looked back, what about the rights of the suspect who committed or the criminal act where the local militia of the communal, which rights belong to him as a suspect, has he the right to hire a lawyer? It's from the first moment. That's what the Constitution and the Code of Criminal Procedure give him. Second, if he's brought in, he's deprived of his freedom. Is he entitled to a lawyer then? There is. That's what he says in French law. Here you have, parallel right – especially the rights of suspects, identity checks. You see, you didn't predict in this law how an identity check is carried out if five, six persons participate in one offence. It is not envisaged who will make an identification of the perpetrator between those five persons. Who will determine whether they have a wig, a mustache or a beard and that they are different in nature? That's not supposed to happen. Second, notice of the neighbors, i.e. The notification of relatives is mandatory because it is a matter of bringing in, and bringing in both German and French law says that deprivement is freedom. What can you do? Secondly, there is no law here, since the means of coercion are applied, physical strength is used, rubber bat is used, what will we do when a communal officer catches and beats a man, inflicts serious physical injuries on him? Is he entitled to a doctor's appointment at the same time? He's entitled to a doctor's examination as soon as he's been beaten to ask the doctor to determine whether he's got physical injuries easier or harder. There's no such thing in our law.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57170	Thank you. You'll get a chance to talk again.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57171	I'm sorry. Don't say anything about it, gentlemen. The basic constitutional right is the right to speak to a lawyer. We have fellow attorneys here who sit and know what it is. Therefore, there can be no wilderness in this area either. This isn't the Wild West. We're not gonna let the sheriffs at the Orgy Bar do whatever they want. It should be governed by law. These issues are not regulated by law, and that's why I'm making remarks, and I think we should still do a good law and then be applied.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57172	Thank you, colleague Jojic. Professor Miladin Ševarlic reported after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57173	In the last four years, 226 million bees have been killed in Serbia according to records from the Serbian beekeepers' Union. Six thousand bee societies only in one day in a settlement on the territory of the Kikinda municipality have destroyed 168 hives of bees. Milutin Petrovic Bata, president of the Kragujevac beekeepers' Association and deputy SPOS president, left for Kikind on July 1st to speak with representatives of damaged beekeepers. On his way back, he had a direct accident with a vehicle that came from the opposite direction and didn't even brake. Of these consequences, he died yesterday at the KC in Belgrade. It is another victim in the occasion of the bee's sea in Serbia. A great loss for beekeepers, a great loss for us fighting for Serbia without GMOs, because he is practically the initiator who handed over the text of my declaration to the Kragujevac City Assembly and who was adopted unanimously by all the council members of the Kragujevac City Assembly, participants of all the protests so far against the "Monsanta" and the "Serbia without GMOs". Thank him and glory for everything he's done. The bear jar with the branded goods promoted by the Alliance of Serbia's beekeeping organisation is, among other things, a significant contribution from the late Milutin Petrovic Bate. Yesterday in my triling of representatives in this assembly at the end of the session, I was challenged by patriotism. I'm asking the cameraman to show. Ask the doctor, the ambassador to the Foreign Ministry why I got this book with the personal dedication of the author. So much for patriotism. (Alexander Martinovic: Professor, what's the name of the book? You can look at her later. (Alexander Martinovic: I can't see from here. I didn’t see much of what you were showing yesterday either, but I didn’t mention you, as you mentioned me. ) Also, the Serb host society has completely restored the Tekeresh memorial complex for 100 years. There is a record on the postament of the main monument, with the blessing of the Serbian patriarch Irinej. Two days before the ceremony, when tents were already set up by the organisers of the Association of Sprski hosts, police came and ordered that no one approach the monuments at 150 metres. Ktitor was president of the Serbian Host Society, which lives and works in Johannesburg. He financed the whole reconstruction, and helped with the supervision of the Department for the Protection of Cultural Monuments from Valjev. It's a unique case that the ktitor is not allowed to approach the monument that he restored. So much for the relationship between the regime then. Mr. Minister, please kindly explain to me, we've already had a linguistic controversy about the law in Serbia between the concept of the Protector of Citizens and that Swedish concept that I don't want to mention right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57174	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57175	Explain to me what is the semantic difference between the militia and the police? Explain to me, please, what does that mean without a uniform as a visible mark that someone on the street can intercept you and bring you in?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57176	Thank you, Professor...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57177	Just a minute. Explain to me, please...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57178	All right, get it over with.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57179	Yesterday you allowed 15 minutes of replica without the right to answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57180	I didn't allow any replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57181	It's not you. It's the chairman. So, of the 123,000 practices in 2018 of the municipal police in Belgrade, how many treatments have been made against public firms responsible for the state of the city?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57182	Thank you, Professor. I've extended it to you for a minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57183	What about the municipal police on 90% of Serbia's territory, consisting of rural areas and mountain areas, and you have nearly 30,000 unemployed agricultural experts in Serbia... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57184	Thank you, Professor. You'll have a chance to answer. National MP Marijan Risticevic has been injured by the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57185	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, member of 106 to begin with. If this had anything to do with the municipal militia before, then I've got something to do with NASA. So, Mr. Chairman, you have some authority. Item one says you have to talk about the agenda point. I really don't know what this had to do with the municipal militia. The Serb host society has been mentioned several times. If I tell you that this is the company of Serb hosts, with my representative on the Committee on Agriculture, the previous speaker, said leaving the session to go to the Serb host society to celebrate Vidovdan, then I told you the character of the previous speaker, and also the character of the society to which it belongs. You have this in the register of all the meetings of the Committee on Agriculture, so you can easily find it, so I wonder how the Serbian hosts celebrate Vidovdan. The previous speaker is an expert on cooperatives. Well, since we're not talking about the agenda, he could've talked... Did he ever rebel because, during the yellow, hundreds and hundreds of cooperatives disappeared, with total capital, and it became tycoon prey. All those cooperatives were bought for free. All the time he was teaching cooperatives, doing cooperatives. Dusan Petrovic received 63,000 euros from an old project. He never rebelled, allegedly doing some study on a cooperative we couldn't find anywhere. He was a cooperative, never explained where those cooperatives went. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57186	Thank you, colleague Rističević. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? Yeah. ) Professor Chevarlic, you have reached out, but you do not have time for an amendment, and you do not have the right to reply when the previous speaker points to a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I'd like to give you my word, but I don't have the option absolutely, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, because you see for yourself as much as I want to be liberal and let everyone talk and say something about it in their own way, I have to be criticised, anyway. But good. It's part of the job. Nejko Jovanovic has a word for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57187	I thank the chairman. First of all, I have great, great respect and respect for my colleague, Petar Jojic, who is usually my lawyer, my colleague and professionally, but unfortunately I cannot agree with the amendment proposal, as he explained it. In a specific case, the municipal militia does not act when it comes to reasonable suspicion that someone committed a crime. A criminal offence may be handled exclusively by the authorised authority, which is that, by order of the prosecution, an authorised official of the MUP is engaged, and after that, a judge for the previous proceedings under the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure is involved. So the crimes here are neither the subject of this law nor the authority that has the municipal militia. Secondly, bringing under this law and bringing in by the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act is a completely different institute. Article 195. The Code of Criminal Procedure provides for a measure to be brought only in case the defendant or the suspect avoids accessing it on the call of the investigating judge, and now judges for the previous proceedings, or as far as the case is concerned by the judge or by the president, if the investigation is concerned. That's the only time he's brought in. Why? Because it's a security measure blamed in the process. How's the ride here? Bringing here just to check the identity of a person who's being held prisoner in committing some kind of violation or violation of the law, only in that case. So, bringing in by the provisions of the CAP means ensuring presence in the process, because I can't otherwise provide, he won't come by invitation, he's avoiding. I'm sending him the police, he's not home when the police come. I have no other way than to bring him in if I'm the one acting in the process, whether I'm a prosecutor or a judge. And I know it's great, knows my esteemed, respected colleague Jojic, considering his enormous legal experience. However, there is another problem, and that is the problem of hiring defenders. The defender does not engage when it comes to a security measure that does not involve criminal proceedings, not even a violation. In view of the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure, Article 284 further points out when it can be provided, or must ensure the presence of the defenders in the proceedings, at the time of the first hearing of the accused in the proceedings, when it is warned of his rights and obligations and where there is no doubt that he has committed a criminal offence. For this kind of engagement of a municipal militiaman there is absolutely no single reason to call a defender, because he was neither arrested nor detained, no measure of detention for up to 48 hours, he was only brought in to determine his identity and nothing more than that. So there's no need to inform the family or anyone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57188	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. Mr. Jojic, you want a replica? (Petar Jojic: Yes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57189	Of course I respect Mr. Nedjo Jovanovic, as a lawyer and acquaintance of certain regulations. However, I would not agree, Mr Jovanovic, with you if someone should be brought from a certain place, to be brought into a certain institution, whether he went voluntarily or had an invitation. He didn't have a call, he was brought in, he immediately got the status of a person who was deprived of freedom. Therefore, both the CAP and this law which indicates that it can be brought in, each, therefore, brought into French law, in English, in German, I will show you, every bringing is a deprivement of freedom. Therefore, every citizen has the right to criminal proceedings to take counsel of his choice, and if he is called as a citizen to give notice to the internal affairs authorities or to the prosecutor or to the court, then he has the right to take legal counsel and belong to the rights of every citizen under this law if a municipal militia officer has the authority to bring in, he is detained, he is deprived of liberty. He must be, above all, informed and in this procedure that he has the right to take the defender with whom he will have a previous conversation, and only then will he make a statement. Therefore, the Constitution guarantees to everyone on defence, guaranteeing the right to appeal or objection, to any decision by the state body relating to its rights.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57190	Thank you. Right on the line, Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57191	Of course I won't be replicating my esteemed colleague I truly respect. The two of us have no reason to burden this lofty home with some professional observations, but I must point out something that my dear colleague certainly knows. It's not about the arrest, it's about bringing, bringing to the CAP, I explained. The party won't obstruct the procedure, won't come, won't participate in the procedure. Bringing is the only measure. Bringing in security measures accused of being present in the process, so that the procedure may take place uninterrupted. Therefore, the measure of bringing is specified by the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure. It's also very precise in this bill and it says, yes, I'll bring you in, just to check your identity and nothing more, absolutely nothing more. On the other hand, we have a PDO that says, well, I can give you a 30-day detention because you don't want to be in the process, you don't want to participate and you're obstructing. And it's also a sort of security detail of the defendant's presence. This isn't about the defendant, it's about someone who committed a communal violation, who wronged himself about the communal order and the regulations that regulate the communal order. He's not deprived of freedom, he's just brought in to check his identity, and nothing else. He, even, has the right to resist this introduction, but the question is, what is waiting for him in that case, what is the other sanction, and what is the other procedure? Is this going to be a distraction for an authorised official in the pursuit of jobs and work assignments, or is it going to be another qualification? It's a big difference, and I wouldn't answer on this subject anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57192	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. Now, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 87, pages 2 and 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have informed the MPs that the National Assembly will work today after 1800 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to pass laws on the agenda of this session as soon as possible. This debate and discussion of the lawyers will continue immediately after the break. Now I'm setting a break that will last until 15.00 hours. Thank you. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. The 21st Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Vjerica Radet and joint MPs Tatjana Macura, Vladimir Djuric, Aleksandar Stevanović and Nemanja Radojevic. The word is "Verica Radet." Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57194	Article 21, that is, our proposal to delete this member, is in line with what we have discussed today and in the debate before that, in principle, discussed the proposal for a law on the municipal militia. So our view is that the municipal militia cannot exist as a special organ, that it is possible and that it is necessary to organise such a thing within the framework of the MUP. We advocate the introduction of municipal order in all spheres, but it is not possible, or not in accordance with the Constitution if it is done in this way. Article 21, whose erasure by this amendment we are looking for, speaks of an identity check. It is foreseen here that a municipal militiaman can, i.e., check the identity of a person whose behaviour or function is a violation of the rules of the municipal militia section, as well as persons found at the site of violation of the rules of the municipal militia. Then you're saying that under the conditions, what I've just read, a municipal militia officer will check the person's identity on the scene and on a legitimate, oral request from the official of the local self-government unit's competent authority, or authorized organization. This calls for a special comment. What authority of the local self-government unit? What is the authority of the local self-government unit that will require the municipal militia officer to verify the identity of a person? Is this where the authorities, or competent inspections, are meant by local self-government? Is it thought here that a communal officer or a communal inspector, if he has a problem with a party, will be on the spot looking for help from a municipal militia officer to identify a person, or to look for an I.D.? Or, this means, and I'm afraid it means, or it can mean, that, say, someone meets the president of the municipality or comes into the municipality building and tells the president of the municipality that he's a thief, that he's stolen something, that he's like this or something, and that he's going to call the municipal militia and order him to identify this person and, of course, he doesn't miss the opportunity to use those other competencies, arrests, fights, etc.? This is one of the reasons why this isn't good. We repeat, and so far, the municipal inspection and the communal directors, when they had trouble doing their job, have called the regular police, and that is completely legal, legitimate and normal. If you think there's not enough police to do this, then the least problem is hiring a certain number of police officers. You now have as many officers as you want who are at the Bureau, who have finished school, who are qualified for something like this, and what are these communal police officers going to be? A party activist who will be given ID and who will train strictness on the street. The final position of this article says – the identity check shall be made by means of a personal ID or by means of a statement of the person whose identity has been verified. Minister, who will be the one and on what basis will the municipal militiaman conclude that it is enough to have that person say his name is Marko Markovic or insist on giving him a ID card so he can try to read it? How is it possible that you've put in the same attitude that they're going to look for an I.D. or they're going to accept what that person says? If we were to adopt such a law, this member couldn't be, especially he couldn't be this way. Since the SRS and our parliamentary group are the stance that the municipal militia should not exist in our system, then in that sense we have also proposed this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57195	Thank you. The word is Olivera Ognjanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57196	Thank you, Chairman. Article 21 says nicely that a municipal militia officer is running a facial identity check whose behavior is a violation of the rules. So, if someone's caught in the act or has a complaint that someone's been throwing garbage or something else that's a violation of the rules, of course you need to run an identity check. Nicely said article 7 that the municipal militia in doing business cooperates with the inspection services of the local self-government unit, whether it's a municipal inspection or some other unit in local self-government. That's what the main task is. That is why I suggest that this amendment is not accepted at all, and it checks the identity of course it is carried out in a unit where it can be obtained to verify the identity of the person who committed the crime, or break the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57197	Thank you. The word is "Verica Radet," right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57198	I don't know how nicely this bill says it, but the argument has nothing to do with the amendment, or with the proposed article 21. The identity check in the way she spoke about her colleague has nothing to do with Article 21, and in particular that we have not heard one word here any argument against it, against our amendment, or the claim that our amendment should be rejected. You know, it's not enough to say, it's like we say here we've submitted the amendment and we've written well that the amendment should be nicely accepted. That's not an argument. So, we haven't heard the argument why this amendment doesn't need to be accepted and the identification is looking for a ID card, legitimateizing it on the spot, and, no, it's still the best way to get a man to the MUP to determine his identity, and it can usually be done using some mobile phone apps, etc., it doesn't write well here, so obviously it's not clear.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57199	Thank you, colleague Radeta. The 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic and lawmakers Tatjana Macura, Vladimir Djuric, Aleksandar Stevanovic and Nemanja Radojevic. The word is Zoran Despotovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57200	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, the proposed amendment to the SRS refers to Article 22 of this Bill, where we have requested that this article be deleted with a reason that the amendment is in accordance with the position set out in the amendment to Article 18. It is an immature product, an unthinkable solution that needs to be explored once again, given an alternative approach where education of the municipal militia on the municipality's territory is given. We think it's not a good title itself, it's not a certain right jurisdiction, and the law says it can, and it doesn't have to. Why such legal proposals? So far, the law covered the territory of cities, but by law all the cities in Serbia did not form a municipal police force. This proposal opens up the possibility of forming a municipal militia and in the municipalities it allows, of course, the budget. The possibility, as a possibility, but what if we were to estimate that the municipal militia was necessary and that we all needed, let's say, small municipalities with a modest budget couldn't afford it. For such a thing, this approach is seemingly democratic, but unfortunately democracy depends on money, because it is not enough to organise a serious state service as it is. I think the proposer of a law like this is running into the city. The concept of this bill is not sufficient and is not consistently precise. It is a huge issue of the specificity and independence of this service, with all kinds of co-operation and partnership with the police and with inspection. Maybe I'm wrong. The best indicator will be time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57201	Thank you, colleague Despotovic. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Tatjana Macura, Vladimir Djuric, Aleksandar Stevanovic and Nemanja Radojevic. Does anyone want a word? The word is Studenka Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57202	I thank the chairman. In line with the amendment previously submitted to Article 18 with the proposal to delete points 3 to 8 we now have an amendment to Article 23 relating to the suspension and inspection of persons, objects and vehicles as one of the powers of the municipal militant. An amendment has been proposed to delete this member. I agree with the Government's view that amendments should be rejected, especially as this law will rely on the provisions of the Law on the transport of passengers in road transport. In fact, if we could put an end to these powers to the municipal militia, they'd have a lot of hard work to do, because they wouldn't be able to stop the faces they found in the offense, and so they would eventually take away the cases of the violations found in those faces. The point of the law is to introduce order, so the amendment should not be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57203	Thank you, colleague Kovacevic. Members of the 24th Amendment were submitted by MP Aleksandra Belačić and joint MPs Tatjana Macura, Vladimir Djuric, Aleksandar Stevanović and Nemanja Radojevic. The word is Alexandra Belacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57204	With this amendment, I suggest that Article 24 be deleted. Proposal for a law relating to the authority of the municipal militia to temporarily confiscate items obtained, used or created by breach of the rules of the area of operation of the municipal militia. In order to explain why I believe that this article of the bill should be deleted, I will return to the story that we have repeatedly had the opportunity to hear during this session, as the main argument to justify increasing the number of municipal militias and extending their powers. In summer two years ago, in 2017, a tragic incident occurred at the Center for Social Labour in Rakovica when a man killed his child, an ex-wife and wounded a few employees at the Centre for Social Work. This man was then overcome by members of the municipal police, a truly impressive example of heroism and an act worthy of any admiration. However, what you forget to mention every time you repeat this story is the fact that these municipal police officers were not officially deployed at the Social Labour Centre, but were accidentally found there. A week before this incident, a similar incident occurred in New Belgrade, also at the Centre for Social Work, where the husband killed his wife, then fled, no one overcame him and committed suicide. That's when the municipal police didn't stop him, which, of course, wasn't their fault, because they weren't even obliged to be there. So this argument that you're making is absolutely not valid. In addition to the Center for Social Labour in Rakovica, where members of the municipal police have mastered the killer, there is also a liquor cellar, so that it could have happened that instead of members of the municipal police, it could have been overcome by people who drink in front of the liquor cellar, so I wonder, wouldn't you have concluded by analogy that we needed more alcoholics? Of course you wouldn't. So your analogy is pretty missing. You didn't convince me, and it doesn't matter that you didn't convince me, it's even scarier that you didn't convince the citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57205	Thank you. The 25th amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic and joint MPs Tatjana Macura, Vladimir Djuric, Aleksandar Stevanovic and Nemanja Radojevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. The 25th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Orlic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? Thank you, colleague Orlic. The 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic and joint MPs Tatjana Macura, Vladimir Djuric, Aleksandar Stevanovic and Nemanja Radojevic. He's got a word for it, Professor. It's a crayon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57206	I just don't know who put me through to them. I asked for an expropriation of article 26. On the grounds that the amendment was in line with the position set out in the amendment to Article 18, which today was the most said here. In 10 years of the application of the Law on the Communist Police, the general picture of the work of this service is pretty mut and vague and now the promoter wants to fix it, sharpen it, by passing a new law on the municipal militia. We're starting new services, we're repainting people's reception procedures in those services, but we're doing an inert and an internal control service that I have to say right away that there's never enough independence in our terms. The proposal for this law does not show that there is a provision under which municipalities can form a municipal militia, as it is left to do so according to their opinion. I think it would still be better if there was a provision that they could do it by. The Serbian Radical Party finds it problematic to take over police intelligence, as it applies coercion to stop and search vehicles, shoot, bring in and after careful listening both yesterday and today, this term, this ingenuity, is not clear to me. When I read today, to my soul, there's a so-called "Anglosaxon" in English law. Street detention. It's that detention of the suspect at the scene during the identification, most problematic to me, in any case, is the way of applying the authority of the municipal police to minors. What was the least talk about here today? Regardless of all levels of education and checks on security and psychophysical abilities, municipal militiamen are neither academics nor those who commit municipal violations are saints and are always in law enforcement, so there can be great problems and ambiguities in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57207	Thank you, Professor. I'll be afraid. The word is "Verica Radet," according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57208	Among other things, here's why this amendment has to be accepted. You're just saying here that this communal militiaman can use force, he can use a bat, he can use physical strength, binders, a sprayer with irritable assets, etc. This is so universal that it's just amazing, especially when you've given jurisdiction to local self-government, that they do whatever they want, both in uniform and in this. We're going to have a situation where in some local self-governments, they're going to use a baseball bat somewhere, some barbs somewhere, somewhere named Mark Kraljević, there's going to be a wet rope somewhere, there's going to be barbed wire, so all of this is possible, because it's written in the law. What does it look like in serious cases when it comes to police? That's what we insist on. The rule on technical features and how to use the means of coercion with the police, among other things, the official stick, says it is made of a mixture of natural and artificial rubber adapted to the purpose, so that it can be applied in a regulated way, the means of binding are official handcuffs, plastic tensions and other means intended to do so. Then you have an official tonfa bat, then an official horseman's stick, then official handcuffs made of metal with a rotating semi-circular gearing piece, then plastic tights and other binding tools, etc. This kind of thing can be used by the police and the police can do the jobs provided for in this Law on the Communist Police. You're really, as funny as you think you are, a moment ago when I said all the means of coercion will be applied, depending on the local self-government, we will unfortunately testify that similar things are really going to happen. It will be too late then to say that we were right, that you come here with amendments and additions to the law, but we remember everything you said, so when the changes and the additions come, then we will remind you of our own words, as we reminded some MPs today who ten years ago claimed that this was not in accordance with the Constitution, and today it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57209	Thank you, colleague Radeta. The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Tatjana Macura, Vladimir Djuric, Aleksandar Stevanovic and Nemanja Radojevic together submitted to the 28th amendment. The word is Studenka Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57210	I thank the Honorable Chairman. This amendment examines the position of applicants well known to our public and directly sided with the boastful and irresponsible members of society. Their opposition to the fact that the municipal militia has powers specifically punishing violations of the municipal order also confirms their need to slow down the country's progress in each segment. Who would have thought that someone could be against the introduction of order, who would have thought that someone would support those who poured detergents into a fountain in Slavia, etc. or those who are destroying where they are being built, because these are public goods built by our money, the money of the citizens of Serbia and that good should be used not only by us, but also by some future generations. This justification of haughtiness is even until they call it freedom of opinion. This is not a way to express our opinion, let's let the stories go and let's be clear, the municipal militia will allow law-abiding citizens of this country to not suffer the consequences of those who are arrogant and irresponsible. This law is feared by those who are used to causing riots. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57211	Thank you, colleague Kovacevic. National MP Tomislav Ljubenovic submitted to the 28th amendment. The 29th amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Tatjana Macura, Vladimir Djuric, Aleksandar Stevanovic and Nemanja Radojevic. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57212	I'm sorry, Chairman, but I've come forward on the previous amendment that's been kind of quick. However, since there is compatibility with these amendments, all have, after all, one unique goal that I do not want to repeat. I just want to point out that, when it comes to amendment to Article 28, it's interesting why the amendment is submitted where the legislation is very clear and where we have absolute consent between the laws, because it's about minors and it's mostly the Criminal Code, as well as the rules relating to criminal and legal protection of minors. So, in a particular case, if there is anything that has to be maximum protection, I speak in terms of legal certainty and legal protection, and these are children, they are minors, and it is precisely this law, and this is exactly Article 28, as proposed in this norm, in the best possible way of achieving an interest that has the highest degree of importance, which is the interest of child protection. So I think that this amendment, I would ask that we really always have in mind if we endure amendments that we know why this amendment is tolerated, that we do not insult those who in no way are allowed to suffer, and these are children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57213	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. Member of the 29th Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 30 of the amendment, in the same text, the People's MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic and joint MPs Tatjana Macura, Vladimir Djuric, Aleksandar Stevanovic and Nemanja Radojevic. The word is Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57214	As this is a violation of both the Constitution and the basic norms and principles, citizens' rights are also spoken by this Article 30, where the chief of the municipal police takes care of the control of the use of the means of coercion. This is really, Mr. Ruzic, funny, especially because we've talked so much about what coercion means, even though you haven't quite listed something precisely, descriptively by your composition, but you said that, that, that, and that. Do you know, and you know for sure, I repeat it again and for a long time you were an MP and a member of that committee and your president was a police minister, that he existed in the MUP, in the police so-called police department. Every cop's integrity test, whether it's like that to his colleague Jojic, that's right, he has to check out, no, really, it's known, so I've made a joke now, Mr. Jojic knows it very well. That integrity test, that's something that checks that personality out of its powers. If she came out of the scope of her powers, that communal officer, a militia officer, he won't answer to anyone except his chief, and in the police, it's not like that, Mr. Ruzic, there's an internal control sector. The internal control sector, under the orders of the Director of Police, forms a certain commission and the commission sees exactly what the funds have been applied, whether they have come out of the use of the means of coercion, makes up the record, gives an opinion and initiates criminal proceedings. What does this mean now? He said the chief of the municipal militia, that someone violated his powers and nothing to anyone, and in the police, if it happens to a police officer, it's first disciplinary and then criminal proceedings against that person, because the law specifically stated when, in which case, and even to such details that it's described how far it is to be possible...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57215	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57216	Can I finish my sentence?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57217	Yeah, that's what I'm waiting for.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57218	Here, I'll finish up after you wait, so you don't wait too long.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57219	No, finish your sentence, please. Thank you for understanding. Members of the 31st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Ruzica Nikolic and joint MPs Tatjana Macura, Vladimir Djuric, Aleksandar Stevanovic and Nemanja Radojevic. The word is Ruzica Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57220	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have asked this amendment to delete Article 31, which speaks of the use of the means of coercion and in attitude 2. It is said that if the use of the means of coercion causes physical injury or the death of a person, the chief of the municipal militia submits a written report to the competent police administration. By erasing this member of the entire party, we have shown a clear view of the party that the municipal militia must by no means use the means of coercion, because in previous discussions we have also pointed to the behaviour and haughtiness of now the municipal police officers of this service's reputation and numerous incidents. This law is going in a very bad direction because of the wider possibility of using the means of coercion and is one of the powers that should certainly have been left to members of the police force. We're afraid that with this much of the coercion, the means of coercion won't be used to establish the communal order, which should be done by municipal militias, or because it's part of the work of the municipal militia. The Serbian Radical Party is against such a proposed legal solution and against the use of the means of coercion, as the most repressive powers a municipal militiar has at his disposal. Unfortunately, we've been pointing to a number of shortcomings in this law all along, and if you really think about introducing a municipal order, it would be best to withdraw this law or to respect all our suggestions or accept our amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57221	Thank you, Mrs. Nikolic. The 32nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Tatjana Macura, Vladimir Djuric, Aleksandar Stevanovic and Nemanja Radojevic. The word is Jelena Žarić Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57222	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Here, we have come to Article 32, or to the amendment that proposes to be Article 32. The proposal of the municipal militia law is deleted. Therefore, according to this amendment, there should be no control of the operation of the municipal militia by resolving complaints. Just from this sentence you actually see how not logical it is. I guess it's normal for citizens to have a chance to appeal to the work of municipal militiamen. If communal militants are already given powers, which they must, of course, comply with the law, then it is perfectly logical that citizens have the right to appeal. On the other hand, in this way, the head of the municipal militia, i.e. the authorised person in charge of resolving complaints, will be able to learn about the way the municipal militia officers act and will therefore be able to take certain measures to improve the work of the municipal militia, but will also, in certain cases, be able, for example, to deliver files of the case to the prosecution, if there is a suspicion that a municipal militiaman has committed a criminal act in his conduct. One more thing, the obligation to return information to citizens is very important. The complainant will therefore, within 15 days of the day of the appeal, be informed of the outcome of the proceeding, so that this would be possible, this amendment should not be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57223	Thank you, colleague Žarić Kovacevic. The 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The 32nd Amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. The 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. National MPs Tatjana Macura, Vladimir Djuric, Aleksandar Stevanovic and Nemanja Radojevic submitted together to the 33rd amendment. He is reporting for the word Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57224	Thank you, Chairman. Just for a little while. I agree with the Government's opinion that this amendment should be rejected. It is precisely from this amendment that you can see an idealessness, an absolute indifference to use the Institute to make the amendments properly, which is actually a proposal for solutions that will complete or improve the law. That is the objective of submitting amendments. Just by proposing an amendment to delete a member or an attitude does not help. Deleting a member in 33 would only create a problem in the functioning of the municipal militia. The adoption of sublegislative regulations is necessary in order to determine how to exercise control of the municipal militia. Therefore, Article 33 refers to what is not regulated by Article 15, i.e. in the manner and procedure of carrying out the control of the municipal militia, it is prescribed that this will be prescribed by the minister responsible for the local self-government system. If there were no Article 33, but only Article 15, norms would be incomplete, therefore, the application of this law would be inadequate the next day. Therefore, I do not think that this amendment should be voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57225	Thank you, colleague Žarić Kovacevic. Member of the 34th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Here you are, colleague Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57226	This member prescribes that the rights and responsibilities of municipal militiamen's labour relations are subject to the rights and responsibilities of employees in local self-government units. As you have come up with this law, it is only possible, but for completely unknown reasons, you have added – if this law is not otherwise arranged. First, it can't be arranged differently, because they're employees of local self-government and can only function in accordance with the law that all employees of local self-government function with. In addition, nothing different is foreseen, so this is completely unnecessary, and that is why it should be deleted. If you had listened to the SRS, it is not too late, perhaps until the end of the debate, Mr Ruzic, and this law has been withdrawn, so you suggested to counterpart Nebojsa Stefanovic that you agree that within the Ministry of Interior a group will be formed to deal with these affairs, then it would be very different. You know, in the regulations and the law on the basis of which police officers operate, it has been strictly determined that a police officer must treat a minor, with a full-time person, with a disabled person. All possibilities are defined by law. It also says exactly how they have to treat animals. And with these communals of yours, there's nothing written on these utility mills, they can do whatever they want, it's important to have a bat, they have handcuffs, and they can boast about how they think. Imagine now, the city of Belgrade has made this decision, we mentioned that decision about some decibels that have to be respected, there must be no noise over 30 decibels in the apartment, and experts who understand that breathing is probably 20 decibels and I don't know what else 10 more, mostly, if you don't want to die, you have to spend those 30 decibels, you're so noisy in the apartment. Among other things, in that decision it stands and let's say that the owners of the dog are not allowed in public places, in parks, where they walk their dogs, to give them no food. And now imagine walking around a dog and giving him two or three granules to eat, and your communal militiaman comes along, who doesn't like animals, then hit the owner with a stick, and kick the dog with your foot. So that's the kind of thing that's gonna happen to you. It's not good, you didn't get this protection of the communal order. Go back to communal inspectors, go back to what has worked well so far, strengthen the work of municipal inspectors, communal directors, hire new people, and within the Interior Ministry, let the police, whatever they call it, be communal, but be within the framework of the MUP and help these local self-government officers. It's the only thing that's clean, constitutional and safe for your citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57227	Thank you, colleague Radeta. Vladimir Orlic responded after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57228	With regard to the observations directly referred to in Article 34. So, what's the difference between any obligations, duties, whatever you want, a municipal militiaman and a man who deals with other work within local self-government units? Here, already in Article 35, there are certain obligations and certain conditions that are closely related to the work of a municipal militia officer, among other things, it needs to be passed through appropriate security checks and that it has passed the exam. It is, for example, something that concerns an obligation that exists, established by this law, and it is not the law that deals with the obligations of people employed in local self-government units in general. So when it's said that there are some things that are prescribed by this law and they represent the difference, let's say, it's one obligation and I think it's quite clear and it's nothing questionable that this obligation should meet or satisfy a man who's employed in the municipal militia. As regards the use of the means of coercion, which is also defined by this law, it is not left for arbitrary interpretation of anyone, Article 26. – the means of coercion, therefore all means of coercion, can be used only if it is otherwise impossible to refuse a simultaneous counter-attack to see the resistance, i.e. to prevent attempted escape. So the situation in which someone is now describing their dog’s food is not a situation in which an illegal attack on a municipal militiaman is being carried out, so it is clear that there cannot be or will be the use of the means of coercion, either in an acceptable or unacceptable manner. It won't come at all. But as far as other questions are concerned, are the technical conditions that need to meet the means of coercion defined, are the treatment protocols defined in different situations? It's been said, and that's true, I agree with that, that for a police issue or a Colloquial of this standard ordinary police force, it's all defined to the point. And the technical characteristics of different means, and also these official sticks and different protocols of conduct, all very well known, very clearly, and we've put it together here and rated it as quality. It's just that it's so well described, just because it's so clear, that's exactly how it's applied to the municipal militia. That's what article 28 shows you. The powers of the municipal militia laid down by the provisions of paragraphs 18 to 27, which therefore covers everything we have spoken about today, but absolutely everything, nothing is left out, this law, is applied under conditions and in the manner established by the law governing domestic affairs and sublaws on police powers and the way police affairs are carried out. All the things that you have assessed together today as well defined in a properly established, quality, so good, so high quality will also be applied in the case of a municipal militia. I think we can only conclude together that it's a good thing that although we really care about this area being adequately arranged, we can support it together by voting, of course. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57229	Thank you, Dr. Orlic. National MP Petar Jojic submitted the amendment to Article 37. Here you go, colleague Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57230	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, Article 37 provides for professional training of members of the municipal militia. As you suggested, it does not give a valid explanation that this will be regulated and that training of members of the municipal militia will be resolved in a unique way. It can't be solved like this for sure. There'll be paint. The only solution is, if you adopt this proposal, and there is no change and addition in two days, and I expect it, because this law will not be applied until the Law on Police is amended. The only solution for the professional training of members of the municipal militia is that they are trained in the secondary school of members of internal affairs bodies in Kamenica or at the Higher School of Interior in Zemun. In this way, it would only be possible to train members of the municipal militia in one place, but by lecturers from internal affairs authorities, i.e. The MUP. Only in this way can lecture lecturers who have a rich experience in these affairs, such as the use of special powers and the maintenance of public order and peace, the detection and lighting of criminal acts and the violations in this area. The only solution is for the lecturers to be members of the MUP and for these staffs to be trained there to take exams, to get a degree there and to be assigned to municipalities to do jobs... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57231	Thank you, colleague Jojic. Thank you very much. The word is Gjorge Vukadinovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57232	Just for a moment, I want to say that I agree, or I support Mr. Jojic's amendment for reasons that are repeatedly cited here, and I don't want to waste time or open up the controversy, but I'm not running away from it. So it's very important, in general, given that the delicacy and complexity and complexity of these duties and the authority of this municipal police, then it would be good if at least their training were as he said at the level. This, in addition to all the shortcomings and disadvantages of the current system of education of these police personnel, was not bad, but rather at the world level, was time-consuming, it was slightly collapsed in the meantime. So, I think that some kind of diet, against the abuse of this duty, would be just the adoption of this proposal, that is, that at least those who train, train, be experienced educators, those who did so with the police. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57233	Thank you, colleague Vukadinovic. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57234	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's a fellow who spoke before me, who walked into the O.R., discussed the law, and didn't even read it. So that's one of the manners that happens here and you never say, you never tell everything that's written in the law, but you spin one story to attack the promoter, the government, the majority of the congregation, and so on. This is about professional training of persons who are supposed to be municipal militiaries, as referred to in Article 37 of the Law, and in that same Article 37, the programme of professional training in the position of the 5th member and verifying the professional competence of the candidate for the municipal militia officer is being conducted by the Ministry of Internal Affairs. So, the same organ that's training with the police is doing an interrogation of police officers, their professional skills, it's also doing it with the municipal militia. And even more so, the same procedure is needed to be implemented for both the municipal militia officer and the police officer. So you have to run security checks, psychophysical tests, and so on, so I don't count everything. So, there's the exact same provision, and there's always something here, like someone wants us to have a municipal militia that's going to go out into the streets and beat the citizens right away, like it's not about maintaining public order and peace in the area of municipal action. Whoever runs it and so on, let's set things right. Who is essentially the one who manages the work of the municipal militia? He's not a commander, but most often the head of the municipal administration who has to meet certain conditions in order to be who he is, and these conditions are for him to be a minor judge of the basic or higher court. So he must have passed a judicial exam, he must first be a graduate lawyer and have passed a professional exam and at least, it seems to me to be at least five years of work experience in the areas of the administration. So they weren't just given public authority to the municipal militia. We always go with that story, but why doesn't the police do it, or the police? Well, we have one question that the minister has raised nicely, whether we are for some level of decentralisation of power or not. We can go after the story of decentralisation of the police, but I don't think that's wise because it's known how the police operate, it's known that the internal affairs authorities are functioning, so we have a particularly competent minister who corresponds to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. That kind of decentralisation would do a lot of damage. However, local leaderships also have their own needs to carry out what they are told by law. Now, whoever is running police on the inside of Serbia or, even for the City of Belgrade, the chief of police administration who doesn't answer the president of the municipality and doesn't have to answer, but responsible for his work as interior minister, that means that if it's a simple surveillance, even on wild deposits, the regular police don't have to go out, it's only due when the law is broken or the law has already been broken, but if we predict that there will be a violation of the law, and that is done by a municipal inspection, then it is called into question whether regular police will come out at all and prevent one such violation of the law. Now we can start with that story if we should increase the number of municipal inspectors? We can discuss this, but in order for someone to be an inspector, the law must again meet much more stringent criteria than a municipal militiaman. And, uh, just find me a communal inspector or anyone else in the administration of some community that's gonna shoot at night, follow up, collect information so there's no violation of the law regarding communal activity. Here, that when he finds me, I say then this law should not be passed, but it means that we understand each other in the territory of the entire Republic of Serbia, to set things right.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57235	Thank you, colleague Arsic. (Petar Jojic: Replica. You have no right, colleague Jojic. (Petar Jojic: My amendment has been reported by my colleague Arsic, how can I not? ) Dr. Vladimir Orlic answered the word, and then Gjorge Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57236	Well, I guess it's not a question of saying something...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57237	I'm sorry, I really don't know if we'd all be happy if we had all the time in the world, but there's no and I have to stick to the Rules of Procedure, so don't be angry, extend the time, it's no good, I know it, and it's okay, you can't please everyone, but we need to sort of run a session and go along with this agenda that we have and according to the subject. Don't be mad. But then say, you don't have a right to a replica, I wish. That's how you do it, be honest. ) Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57238	Thank you. So, I have responded to the amendment, and I am sure it is not disputed that Mr Jojic also says how he feels about our comments on this amendment. It's nothing to argue with. We've been doing it all day. So here, I'm looking at Article 37, Section 8. The proposal is to place "self-government" as an exception, unless the candidate has received a certificate of a successful exam. This applies to training costs. That's what you intervened on with your amendment proposal, which is not directly related to the question of where training is being done, who is doing it. It has been regulated earlier in this article and Mr. Arsic is quite right, indeed, that training is being implemented under the proposal of this law by the professionals you suggested should be trained, because in this domain they are fully experienced and they are doing it in quality and we are not arguing about it at all. We agree on that. Something else was interesting to me. I found it interesting to hear from him, as he said, to support the amendment, MP Vukadinovic. I'm sure he's not familiar with the content of the amendments at all, because if he were, he'd notice the width of the discussion and the deviation from what we had to comment on and what was written in the amendment itself. I know, Mr. Jojic is doing it because he's giving a broader discussion about the whole law today. It's what a man does all day, and I'm convinced, I'm directly convinced during our debate that man knows the bill well and the previous one, still in force. But, Mr. Vukadinovic, I'm sure he didn't even read this amendment that he says he supports, or the bill at all. Maybe he was busy, I don't know, I guess he had a lot of work advertising himself in a successful performance at the National Assembly yesterday afternoon. I suppose he was extra busy announcing his guesting today. I'm sure it'll be as brilliant as yesterday, because here somewhere on that Twitter, I believe Mr. Vukadinovic is so popular that he's the best in this entire opposition brought together by Dragan Gilas, that he gets two points on average, which is for half the grade better than I am Dragan Gilas personally. Mr. Vukadinovic, it's not a dispute. We want you to make progress in those circles, become the leader of that extreme wing of the opposition, but let's say if we're talking about amendments, if you're reporting on that basis, that makes sense and content. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57239	Thank you, Dr. Orlic. Now, Jojic has the opportunity fulfilled, but first Djordje Vukadinovic, you're up to it, then Petar Jojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57240	I thank the chairman. Of course, I know the amendments and I have the law here, I'm following here in front of me, but we really don't intend to account for it to Mr. Orlic, who is perfectly clear to him, or even his fellow Arsic, intending to somehow return that controversy where they didn't go so well yesterday. But it's not about that. I really didn't want much to interfere today, nor to get involved in this debate, but generally I agree with the idea and with the other intensity of these amendments that my colleagues have submitted, especially by reason of Mr Jojic, but also by a number of other arguments that we have heard here, with me not being to abolish. That's the difference. I'm not in favour of abolishing the municipal police, despite these shortcomings, but I am in favour of basic co-operation and above all of the demarcation of jurisdiction which, with all due respect, actually, I think there will be major problems in practice. It's clear that it's not up to my colleagues across the street, they're going to continue some barren controversy that I'm not going to interfere with this time, that there's a way to talk, I think it's proved to be who cares about the real debate and who cares about the barren political debate. What his colleague Arsic said, everything he said, listen to his discussion, the five minutes he talked about, just so you see and let go, you will already understand how complicated it is, even his explanations, let alone how it will in practice be to act on these differences and on the competences and affairs of the municipal police. I don't mind if it works, I'll be happy if it works. I don't have any ambition here to hunt any political points, or even in terms of entertainment, but not a constructive pole with colleagues across the street. So, all that you've said to your colleague Arsic, everything actually points to it, literally listen to and read in the stenogram your discussion, and you'll see how much it's a confirmation of these dry reserves or criticisms that are being carried out here, partly by me, and partly by some colleagues on my left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57241	Right on line, Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57242	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I was talking about whether members of the municipal militia should be educated at a school, whether they will have a certain deadline for teaching, who will be lecturers, with whom the evaluation will be passed, in which the school of members of the municipal militia will be established throughout Serbia. It is the only way to obtain a unique educational and professional exam and the ability of municipal militants. This whole thing, it's going to be colorful. I've heard that municipalities will be implementing the program, yes, a contract with the candidate is being concluded in a year. But they're running an internal affairs program, so the MUP, but how? Are these people going to be in school for a year, or are they just going to leave occasionally, somewhere to hear something about who's going to be in which municipality and in which district to start a public discussion or to search the question of law and education? So, ladies and gentlemen, I've been through those security schools that you haven't been to. The minister was not a militia officer, the minister was not a militia commander, the minister was not a chief inspector, the minister was not in a position, he was educated, but was not in that structure, there is no such expertise, to the extent that he knows what is done on the ground. So, when a communal officer is in school for a year uninterrupted, day and night at school, as many members of the MUP went through, it's the only way we can have a municipal militia. Otherwise, we're against such a municipal militia, because it's going to be an imposition on the villa, it's going to cost a lot of taxpayers in municipalities.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57243	Thank you, colleague Jojic. The word has the People's MP Veroljub Arsic, right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57244	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this isn't as complicated as it wants to be presented. We've already come to some of the fact that these communal police officers are likely to be residents of these municipalities where the municipal militias are. Well, they're not gonna work against themselves and their families, are they? So is the chief of local administration, and I guess he won't work against himself. We all forget, we don't forget, but we keep going through an institute of force and whether that communal militiaman is going to be trained. Here, we've come so far in all the discussions, as we've read, member by member, letter by letter, that they will and that the program and training are all conducted by the MUP. He's not gonna get himself in any trouble if he doesn't do it in a good way. The entire system of municipal militias is designed, and they do not want colleagues who do not support the government of the Republic of Serbia to improve, above all, the security of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I suppose such an intention is absolutely right, not that now someone will have municipal millionaires who will come out of pure peace to beat the people out of the street. Well, the law prevents them from preventing the law and the current police, no less, no more. It's exactly the same. So, you keep that story moving through here. Also, as the minister represents a political party, his political party goes to the polls so that he can be a minister again or make progress, I guess the president of the municipality. He'll take care of what the municipal militia does to him, because in a year, two or three, he's going to the polls again.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57245	Thank you, colleague Arsic. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57246	So, first this part is related to Article 37. The technical training programme and everything it contains, both the first and second parts and the way it is performed, etc., reads in Section 5. So it defines the minister responsible for the local self-government system and the minister in charge of internal affairs. Therefore, it is known who should also determine how, and in other words, this type of programme is already being implemented, and this type of training is already being certified properly, because in the transitional and final provisions and on this issue it is said – what has been started, and it has not been brought to an end until the day of entry into force of this law, ends under the existing procedures. So it's no void and there's no potential danger of not knowing who's going to do it and in what way. What I find more interesting is when someone comes here and says: “Yes. I know what I support and what I say I agree. “ But he can’t explain what it is. He's still telling me that he doesn't know which session he came to, or what we're doing here today. And he says he won't talk about what happened yesterday, and he looks like he won something and we're not happy now. I find it interesting that a man won't speak to him in some way. It's going to be that the truth is completely different. When we remind ourselves that someone calls himself the most popular person among all in the opposition, for someone who has the highest rating among citizens, who is better rated by citizens than Dragan Gilas himself, it is clear to me why he no longer wants to speak on the subject, because we all know that Gilasu does not like to hear it. We all know Gilas is a vindictive man, ladies and gentlemen. That was confirmed by Vuk Jeremic in time, when Gilas kicked him out of the DS. This is exactly how he described what is wrong with the character of Dragan Gilas and how he treats those who are politically opposed to him. That's what the DS knows today. How disbanded their committees are these days because they were led by people who disagreed with DS being sold, served on a plate to Dragan Gilas. What happened to the two province MPs who were kicked out of the party because they personally participated in drawing up a financial report and found that Gilas was stealing DS? As they pass, so are others afraid not to pass by themselves.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57247	Thank you. The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word. Right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57248	Ladies and gentlemen, the SRS is to maintain the communal order, as explained by her colleague, Veronica Radet. And I support such an opinion, because in any case, order should be maintained. But there are other authorities that are tasked with taking care of public order and peace, which are primarily members of the internal affairs authorities, or the interior ministry. What should be given in the jurisdiction of the municipal militia is to maintain the purity of the city, the protection of the environment of Polish damage, of pets, so what might be considered a communal activity that would not be affected by the authority of other organs. This is how Serbia will now have members of the MUP on one side who care for the maintenance of public order and peace, the detection and lighting of crimes and the reporting of their perpetrators, and on the other hand we will have a municipal militia that will also carry out tasks from the work of members of the internal affairs body, i.e. The M.O.P. The problem now is that it is contrary to the Law on the Police, to the Traffic Safety Act, the Law on Administrative Procedure. Therefore, there can be no authority there and here. Only this law can remain in force if certain laws are amended, and above all, the police on traffic safety and thus resolve the issue and the Code of Criminal Procedure, because these powers are being affected here. I had no other intention, first of all, the minister, of course, intended for this law to be passed and passed. However, the consequences of this law will be long-lasting if it is not within three, four months required changes and additions, or the Constitutional Court will have to put this out of force.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57249	The word is Gjorge Vukadinovic. Right on the line. Here you go, colleague Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57250	Here, in spite of this exposed trouble to do so, I must say, but really briefly to Mr. Orlic, I don't know what his problem is, first of all with Mr. Gilas, seems to be a problem, collective damage. Why this fascination, this obsession? Is it fear, desire or love for Mr. Gilas? So, you're here all the time, and when there is and there's no foundation, you're putting not only me, but you're putting Mr. Gilas in every topic. Whether it's an obsession, a fascination, a fear, or perhaps some regret, it's what you see or see in the future. I don't have that problem. So in a lot of things I agree with him, in some things I disagree with Mr. Gilas, I think he was... And to say that, so that you get very upset... I think he was a good mayor of Belgrade, I respect and has room for criticism. So, he was a good mayor of Belgrade, I would personally force him to be again, and I would say Mr. Markovic and others on the monitoring board to control his every move. It's a subject that doesn't matter. We're talking about the communal police, we're talking about how I really agree with this argument, which Mr. Jojic once again said. So, all the dilemmas they have, not just him, at his exposure, I'm attached. So that's the problem, that there will be problems and that I don't care whether he suggested it or whether the initial law came from the city's timely authority and Dragan Gilas or from my brother from my aunt or my own brother that I don't have. So, the basis for criticism or doubt, dilemmas and concerns about this law also has an existing one and this next one, and I also believe that very soon in six months or over a year there will probably be at least changes and the need for amendments and additions to that law, and I won't mind, I won't be liquefied here, no matter what the ruling majority will be at that time. This, indeed, Mr. Orlic, ask yourself why such fascination with Mr. Gilas. Perhaps you would, perhaps deliberately design him as the leader of the opposition or fear him as the leader of the opposition, it is not clear to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57251	Thank you. Right on line, Dr. Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57252	If there is to be fear of the opposition leader, it means that there should be fear of who is best at the ratings among all the opposition. Then, according to that rating, at least as published in Serbia's new political thought, we should all tremble in front of Vukadinovic Djordje. Is that right? That would be an indicator of fear. As for Dragan Gilas, he seems to have expected that fear of him to imprison the court at the depth of DS the moment he ordered that five or six committees be dissolved, you co-operated know it much better, because they were not led by people who were personally loyal to Gilasu, however, seems to have failed. They failed to intimidate, for example, the province's MP DS Nenad Borovic and MP Goran Savatic, and therefore eventually expelled them from the party. Now these people themselves are telling you what the reason is. So this is no interpretation, no expression of any emotion, no positive, no negative. Borovic says – I said that Dragan Djilas stole DS specifically when we decided as the main committee to join the DS Alliance for Serbia and said that against it and said that Gilas, so these are Borovic's words, rich in DS, that we will not enter into the alliance and that we should not enter the alliance with Gilas because he had interest in DS and made harmful contracts for DS. It's about that famous financial report that we've been showing here. It's an indicator of Gilas' relationship to the question of fear. He controls people with fear. Among other things, I'm inclined to conclude that those who dare say that something more popular and more important or something better know, now some can't mention it, and they were behind it very bravely yesterday. As far as relations with Belgrade are concerned, what Belgrade thinks of Dragan Gilas in the elections and not once, he said several times in a row. The billion and 200m debts made by Dragan Gilas, leaving without money and pensioners and children and pregnant women and maternity leave, destroying everything he touched, Belgrade will not forget. Belgrade had no fear of telling that man - thank you, never again.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57253	Thank you, Dr. Orlic. Right on line, MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57254	Thank you, Chairman. I really thank you for your generous offer earlier, but I really have to say that I don't have that kind of ambition to sit with Gilas anywhere, so at any level of government, the board of directors or whatever you've already said. I didn't get it very well. I don't want to be involved in any affairs, and I don't think Gilas was a good mayor. On the contrary, I think he was a very bad mayor, perhaps the worst in Belgrade's recent history, because he left the city over-indebted. He left the city of Belgrade in debts of over billion euros, perhaps 1.2 billion euros. As much as he tried to in some way, to reduce some particular mathematical skills as a debt, to admit only 400 or 500 million, he was about billions, even more with the corresponding interest, with the debts of the JKP, institutions, city municipalities, etc. And that's undeniable. Remember the Pazl City affair, remember the procurement and installation of those underground containers, how much millions of euros were spent on this madness. Remember the acquisition of Spanish trams, how many millions of Belgrade citizens have gone there, went on the air. Remember the bridge on Ada. Remember the affair of the reconstruction of King Alexander's Boulevard, when his first associate was arrested then, arrested and processed and many more. Think of a whole series of other affairs. Although I know that you are fond of Dragan Djilas, in time Bosko Obradovic accused you of not supporting him while he was with Sasa Radulovic a candidate for the Belgrade City Assembly, so he accused you of actually supporting Dragan Dilas. Only you support Dragan Gilas, we have nothing to do with it. We're clear. He's your candidate, he's your boss, but don't get us involved in any way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57255	Thank you, colleague Markovic. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57256	Thank you, Chairman. I am reporting on the amendment, and I must start at once to say that all the dilemmas that the amendment promoter had, the answer is already in the very text of the member to which the amendment was submitted, so that the one who supported this amendment, probably for some daily-political reasons, the answer is clear, and he says this - the municipal militia is an integral part of the local self-government unit and represents a special organisational unit of the same local self-government. So far, the privilege or benefits have had cities, and now they will be able to have municipalities. Now let's distinguish between two things that the bill extremely precisely defines, which is that only contractual relations are defined within the unit of local self-government between the candidate for the municipal militant and the way he will professionally train through the contract and nothing more. Only professional training does not perform units of local self-government, nor can or has the capacity for such a thing. That'll do two ministries in synergy. One thing is the MUP, logically, is that it is security business, because it is limited measures of enforcement of coercion or coercion. On the other hand, logistics support will be given to you as proposings, which is either the ministry responsible or in charge of local self-government affairs. I don't understand what could possibly be a problem here. The essence of the training program, yes, the weight is on the MUP. Where will the programs be implemented? Where will the training be done? It is a matter of special decisions to be made both at the ministry level and at the level of units of local self-government. Once again, the responsibilities of the municipal militia and the competence of the MUP are clearly delimited. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57257	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. Member of the 40th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57258	The minister when he responded to some of the remarks on one of the amendments said it was a recommendation from the Citizens' Protector to form this militia. I'd like you to say which Protector of the Citizens? Is that left of Sasha Jankovic or is it this new one? Now I'm talking about an amendment, or article 40. The 40th is contrary to the Law on Local Self-Government, and municipal militants are officials of local self-government. You cannot direct certain officials of local self-government to any special training or so on, it is known that an official of local self-government must pass a professional exam for organ work. This expert exam is what is needed for every employee in local self-government. You're showing this member of the 40th that you're instituting local self-government police in the jurisdiction of the MUP, and that's not how it works, and we're going to repeat as many times as you'd like to make sure that a community militia of this kind doesn't produce any results. Not that he won't give the results, but there's going to be a lot of trouble in their work. Citizens will have a lot of problems communicating with them. They're not the people who finished those cop schools, they're not the kind of people who can behave, they don't act like cops, and they're gonna make trouble with their pride, and this isn't gonna be the exception. Guys, this is what we've been telling you about both the perpetrators and the communal police. You didn't believe us, and then you saw for yourself. First of all, the people see that these are all wrong moves. It's similar with these building managers, etc., but it's not your jurisdiction. There'll be an opportunity, and that law will come to work here, so we'll remember what anybody was talking about. So, not only do we propose that this amendment be accepted, but we suggest once again, Minister Ruzic - withdraw this bill and organise with counterpart Stefanovic this matter within the interior ministry.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57259	Thank you, colleague Radeta. Member of the 41st Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57260	In college, this article in 41 with what you wrote in article 2 of Article 35 -- that the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Serbia provides a health check on a future member of the municipal militia. It stands in the position of Article 2 35, but the psychophysical ability is not, because the way to determine it is very extensive. It takes a long time, and you didn't foresee this law, because the psychophysical ability includes certain training, staying at a police centre in Kamenica and many, many, tests that a candidate for work in the MUP needs to pass. The job of a police officer in the MUP is very stressful and burdensome. That's why it's wanted. But since you've now given all these powers to a municipal militiaman, then his job is just as stressful and burdensome. We've heard here from some colleagues that they, minors, are going to be supermen, so they can do things that mountain rescue services do, etc. I don't know if you do, Mr. Rose, but, unfortunately, that's it. An interrogation was conducted on over 300 employees in the MUP. When those floods took place in 2014, a number of police officers didn't know how to swim, one part of the police service failed to train the rescue of the drowners, a number didn't know they were managing the boats, even if the oars, a number of them didn't know how to properly set up the embankments. And you've told us here that they're absolutely ready to help at any moment, to do that, and that, and now, apart from the fact that the M.O.P. is going to help issue their medical conviction, they, Mr. Ruzic, don't have that kind of training at all. Because if they had the same training, which someone here said a little while ago, and it's not true, as members of the police, well, you know, they'd really have to work and run at a certain length, they'd have to do other exercises that are very, very demanding, even for firefighter candidates. So either accept this amendment or, if that's already the case, until this really is lifted and established within the framework of the MUP communal or some directorial service, this is unserious. Because who knows who's going to work here, or who's on your job quota around the cities, where the mayor or the president of the municipality is going to issue beliefs.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57261	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. Member of the 42nd Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57262	Article 42 is talking about security disturbances and communal militias. You provided for this bill so that this check could be carried out by order of the president of the municipality. Does that make sense to you, Mr. Minister? Where did the president of the qualification community and the expertise so that he would have the grounds to look into security disturbances to carry out the work of a municipal militiaman? You know very well, as Secretary of State, who all the presidents of the municipality are. The presidents of the municipalities are drivers and chefs and waiters. Of course, it's political functions, it's a choice of parties that come out with such proposals and they have the right to choose whoever they want. But that doesn't mean that someone, if they become president of the municipality, and even if they buy a diploma, that they automatically become qualified for such a serious job. Imagine, Minister Ruzic, that, let's say, the former president of the municipality of Alibunar, or the former president of the Municipality of Grock, or the former president of the municipality of Pozeg, had come to their senses that someone working in the municipal militia had bothered them because he might have discovered their malfeasances, their criminal activities and to hide his actions, declared that the municipal militiaman was not safe, that he needed to carry out a security check, that they would actually cover up their malversions and their criminal activities. I'm talking about the presidents of the municipalities that were already in custody, who are being prosecuted for abuse, for theft, etc. And you allow such a person by law to determine whether or not an additional security assessment should be made? We repeat, however we speak, a member per member, every piece of evidence that this is not a good law anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57263	Thank you, colleague Radeta. The 43rd amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Here you go, colleague Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57264	Here's what the Serbian Radical Party is proposing. Since, in this law, a municipal militiaman is treated as any employee of the local self-government, and here, in this article, they have, in a way, a special status when it comes to conducting a disciplinary procedure or responsibility for those persons. We say that it is also treated as all employees of the local self-government, in the authorities of local self-government, and here it is added that in a procedure that would be conducted against members of the municipal militia, the recordings and other materials are applied as evidence of their responsibility. It's just, it's kind of weird, it's not a big effort, Minister, not to make such a difference. If those who are employees of the administration don't use the footage, they don't use any additional materials, why would it be apostrophe in the law that these people need you to use the footage? After all, the great lawyers know, it's not some proof. Why should we put them in a special category? What the SRS sees here as a problem, that's exactly what some colleagues wanted to talk about, which they were talking about, and these are the police officers. How many graduate lawyers are there that meet all these conditions that a man needs to have in order to be chief of the municipal militia? How many are in Pirot? How many are there in the White Palace? How many in other smaller municipalities? You can't keep a graduate lawyer there, not with a legal officer with as many points as he should have, you know, you still have to adapt those laws and legal provisions to some real conditions. Why can't a man who's graduated from FON or some other community colleges apply to be head of the municipal militia? This way, you'll have a militia, and the chief won't be able to find it or he'll have to be imported from larger urban areas, but it's hard for someone to decide to go from Belgrade to the White Palanco, the process is in the opposite direction.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57265	Thank you, colleague Mircic. National MPs Tatjana Macura, Vladimir Djuric, Aleksandar Stevanovic and Nemanja Radojevic submitted to the 44th amendment. The word is Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57266	Thank you. Dear Minister, we've reached Article 44. Amendments were apparently expected to be accepted by the amendments to earlier members of this bill, so they submitted an amendment requiring item 1) in Article 44(1) to be deleted. Otherwise, Article 44 refers to serious infringements of labour duty, and point 1) refers to the illegal use of means of coercion. Now imagine that these earlier amendments were rejected and that this amendment was accepted by some means. Just thanks to the employees of the ministry, or the government who did this opinion before us, because they pointed out, something like this will not happen. But when we talk about the essence of the amendment, I agree that it should be rejected, because it is logical if the municipal militia is empowered to use the means of coercion, then, as a weighty violation of the duty from the employment relationship, it will certainly incriminate illegal use of the means of coercion, as well as that it is normal to talk about the responsibility of the municipal militia. Like all other amendments submitted by this group of MPs, this amendment should be rejected. I just want to get a hold of myself, listen to a little discussion and a circle of replicas that took place in the National Assembly. I, you have seen, Mr Marinkovic, mostly on the professional side, have explained the amendments and my opinion why I feel that an amendment should be rejected or accepted, but what I have had the opportunity to hear is the constant intention of, of course, criticising the proposal proposed by the Government and criticising SNS MPs, as always, which will support this proposal and something very bad for the citizens and the situation that is being created here, the image being created, it is as if we now want to create an army that will go along the streets of our cities and municipalities to beat the people. Of course, the municipal police won't be like that, i.e. This is not the case now, or the municipal militia, when this law comes into force, it will not be so. As far as training goes, we can't exactly say that these people aren't trained or that they're not professional. One of them works with high school, someone works with higher school, someone works with college, but we can't exactly say it's such a training. It cannot be trained as such if it is organised in the co-operation of the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government and the Ministry of the Interior. So they organize and schedule training due to the need of local self-government units for a number of municipal police officers at the moment. That training is held in the Sremska Kamenica, where it holds training for these, let's say, ordinary police officers, or for police officers who are not communal police officers. They have more objects. They have both theory and practice there, and then they pass professional exams. They also take that running and those martial arts, etc. So, they're not exactly municipal cops, some savages who are now going to be our people in the streets of cities and municipalities. On the other hand, what about the people who commit violations in those areas? What about those people parked on the green surfaces? What about the people who throw garbage past the containers? What about the people who are involved in the extravagant sale? Of course we want communal order, not communal mess. That's exactly why we had the chance to discuss a law like this. I won't answer any more questions about the amendments. I just want to finally say that I will support this bill with my colleagues and colleagues from the SNS parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57267	Thank you, colleague Žarić Kovacevic. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. (National Members of the SRS detest and earn votes – Article 44) Yeah, at 44. I said. Okay, okay, maybe I was wrong. I'm sorry, to article 44. The MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 44th amendment. Here you go, colleague Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57268	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the member to whom we have submitted the amendment prescribes serious violations of duty from a working relationship, and in this Article 44, you are taxing which are serious violations of duties from the employment relationship for which a member of the municipal militia is responsible. Our amendment that we have submitted specifically refers to point 11 which says that the refusal of a medical examination is one of the major violations of duty. We asked that this point be deleted, we asked not because we think it's okay, on the contrary, but because the president of the municipality is not a qualified person to refer the employee to a medical examination. Is the president of a municipality that is, for example, an economist or a driver or I don't know what other professions, is he qualified to send a doctor? At the end of our reasoned discussion on concrete examples, we have pointed out a number of shortcomings in this law and we invite you once again to withdraw this law from the procedure, because its application will not establish any communal order, but will only be a problem when this law is applied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57269	Thank you, colleague Nikolic. The word is Mr. Nejo Jovanovic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57270	I thank you, Chairman. Since I will no longer appear under the amendments, I would just like to draw attention to the inability to apply and to this proposal for an amendment, given that it would lead to the total senselessness of the law itself, because one of the basic elements of working-law status is that so-called. health training. On the other hand, the message of the SPS Group to citizens is that this law should in any case be supported, that we should not call for civil disobedience, but for the respect of the law, that municipal militants should not be seen as hooligans on the street, but must be seen and accepted as someone who introduces order, primarily municipal order. We must not generalise from individual cases a complete situation as bad, because it is not true. On the other hand, municipal militias, in the light of the competencies prescribed here, must also apply repression measures in certain situations. Citizens need to understand that these measures of repression are limited. What is very important as a message to the citizens of Serbia is that never a municipal militiaman can be a traffic policeman or a traffic policeman, a municipal militiaman. Also, a regular MP officer can't seduce the municipal order, nor can it be the opposite. Where good luck had this communal order been established earlier, we wouldn't have had the consequences we had, we wouldn't have met up with the situations we met with, we wouldn't have experienced citizens on the left side of the Danube what they were experiencing, where their homes were destroyed, where the water took away their property, where they ran out of roof over their heads. If we had the communal order and the proper conduct of the municipal police, a lot of things in the state would be arranged. The municipal police cannot be integrated within the MUP because they will be made inefficient by the MUP on the one hand, and on the other hand, citizens will not experience what they deserve and get what they deserve, which is an increased degree of security and security both of them and of the environment and of their property. Dear Ministers, at the very end, the SPS parliamentary group is in a way even asking that strict and stricter sanction all members of the municipal militia who exceed their powers, to in some way ensure that the instruction, since the order cannot be given, units of local self-government that through all these monitoring measures, through all these measures of control of the work of the municipal police, which are prescribed by this bill, is strictly kept in mind that there is no excess of authority, that the reputation of the municipal militia is not destroyed, and that what is the ultimate objective of the government of the Republic of Serbia, which is life in a decent state, that this goal is achieved in this way. There's no other way. Everything the Socialists think is important, we tried to bring it out today. Did we succeed, some of the Serbian citizens. Whether our messages are clear enough and justified, they will again appreciate Serbian citizens, and we will always remain on the same line -- respect for the law, support for the government when it adopts such laws, in any case quality bill proposals, and I hope that we will succeed in this together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57271	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. The 45th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Sreto Peric and joint MPs Tatjana Macura, Vladimir Djuric, Aleksandar Stevanović and Nemanja Radojevic. The word has a colleague, Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57272	Mr. Minister, since we are almost at the end of these amendments, I have a proposal for you from the SRS. Let your ministry conduct a survey to make it clear that we, who have matured, have matured, that we do not need a municipal police officer, and all others who do not do so, so we will have about one man, one policeman. Now we're going to be tied to this article 45. This morning, a colleague said that there were hidden intentions at the DS during the first introduction, namely the adoption of the Law on Community Police. Here's the best example that the promoter had hidden intentions when proposing this law. Doesn't mean, Mr. Minister, you're the one. The promoter is the Government, because you say here – deployment outside the municipal militia. I understand if someone has stopped working because local self-government no longer has the resources, and it has defined itself at one point to introduce a municipal police officer, or municipal police, missing funds, to provide him with the possibility of a job, or a working relationship within local self-government, but here we have another situation. Mr. Minister, you're all the negative examples here, so, that communal militiaman who hasn't met the conditions for further doing this job, then you have a situation where those who are being prosecuted or others are being tried, even those who are convicted of some sentence in prison will be assigned to other matters. Is there better evidence that there is some kind of hidden intention of the promoter here? We are also carrying out some other conclusion that these jobs are very expensive, so when you take the money, it still doesn't have much to do with the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, then you have to take care of it, or that a job like this requires the security of a large number of voters in the next election. There's no third. It just doesn't exist. Some colleagues here, I can't figure it out, began to question the correctness of the regular police duty. In any case, there are individuals who are not up to that call, but that doesn't mean we generally have a situation. We said it was the municipal police before, we'd have far better security. This isn't about that kind of security at all. The best proposal that could be heard here is what the MPs of the SRS said. This law is completely pointless. The next little better is counterpart Bora Kovacevic, who suggested that the police be united or something.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57273	Thank you. The 46th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Tatjana Macura, Vladimir Djuric, Aleksandar Stevanovic and Nemanja Radojevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 47 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Verica Radet. Here you are, colleague Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57274	He's right, colleague Sreto Peric, when he talks about hidden intentions. Technically we'll get a new name and the cops will be militias, there'll have to be a new systemization, and then it'll be what, if you remember, when Zoran Djindjic cleaned up and brought his people into the security service, then he formally renamed the state security to the BIA, and that was the basis for doing what he did back then in the security services. We have been talking all day, two days, about the bill's proposal, and it is interesting that MPs who support, not everyone, but some, are constantly implementing that they give professional views, make expert opinions, and we are probably unprofessional. No, we're not. We have very professionally explained every amendment we have submitted. Very argumentative, too. We Serbian radicals advocate the introduction of order in the municipal area, we advocate the introduction of order throughout Serbia, we advocate the reduction of maximum corruption, we advocate a policy that is in the interest of all citizens of Serbia, everyone who lives in Serbia. So don't tell us it's just you, because you're in a position to propose a law, stand up for something, and we say it's not a good bill for you, so we're up for something that's not good for the people. That's just not true. The concepts don't agree with us, and that's why you're the government, we're the opposition, but you can't... You can say that what we say is unacceptable to you, as we find it unacceptable what you suggest, but you can't say that you're professional and that we're not. Generally, Serbian citizens should know that this law will give them municipal militias, that it will be uncles who will come to their doors often and without uniforms, according to the law, so let those who are crazy open doors to them. They will come to them when neighbors report them crying for their child, barking their dogs, feeding their homes in the park, and only knowing what awaits them. They say experts: 10 decibels is whisper, 20 decibels is breathing. That's 30 decibels in total. So nothing but whispering and breathing is allowed in the apartment. Now you can see how you'll survive with this when these in different uniforms come to you, because every local self-government will determine what kind of man will wear a uniform, if he goes in uniform, because he can and without a uniform, which he'll label, and that's this article in the 47th we're talking about. You know what this is gonna look like? Do you remember that time that traffic cops ran out of the bushes? How many car accidents were there when a man drives, so he drives faster than he's allowed, and it certainly needs to be prevented and punished, but not in a way that a cop runs in front of him and that he doesn't know if he's going to stop, will he continue and cause chaos? That's how it's gonna be now. There's a man coming without a uniform, he's wearing just some card that he can make in every place and he's showing up to tell you that a child can't cry, because you're going to pay the fine for it, to tell you that your pet is walking around, that you can't give him a grenade to eat, because if you're doing it, you're going to pay the fine, that you can't put on a little louder television, and that someone in the house doesn't hear very well, so I'm sorry to let him look at the pictures, because you don't give it. This law will not allow those of you who come to the door or without a uniform, or with colorful uniforms, or with colourful markings. (President: Thank you. I'm done. Just one sentence, since it's the last amendment, Mr. Minister, and the last chance, withdraw this bill, and you're welcome to bring the municipal militia into the regular police force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57275	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. The word has Dr. Vladimir Orlic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57276	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It was a good discussion today, we took a good look at all the members of the law and the proposed amendments anyway. When it comes to expertise that's apostrophe, I don't know if it's a matter of expertise, but the need for people to be afraid of the law doesn't understand. There's no need for such a thing. We have today said that there are very clear definitions which are an integral part of the text of the proposal, which speak under what conditions something can, including under which conditions a member of the municipal militia may be on a mission, strictly in connection with his work and in accordance with his powers, without being in an official uniform. So it can only be if it is his superior and strictly within the framework of what is the proposal of a municipal militiaman's work ordered and predicted. Of course, it has nothing to do with what we heard earlier, whether someone will come often and what they will measure and not to talk about these values now. It's not that important. It is important to know that people are accounted for and when they invest in people, and this has to do with the question – can a person who is qualified for the affairs of a municipal militiaman be deployed to other duties? When, therefore, people are invested and they achieve a certain level of competence, knowledge, skills that they have shown, can they be used in any way within the framework of the local self-government system or should they be denied, for example, in a situation where they no longer meet psychophysical conditions? The time is coming, old man, maybe at some point it's not for the field anymore, but it is a quality man and it can do other jobs. I think it makes sense to find a solution to use a quality man in such conditions. On the other hand, there is some kind of obligation to those people who are engaged at some point. Now, for example, we adopt the law, we introduce more rigorous conditions, we have explained this, greater requirements, more serious requirements than people are to date, whether they should automatically point to the door of all those who are engaged in this system of municipal police today, and cannot come out to meet or satisfy these stricter conditions or need people, if they are of quality, use them properly. I think everyone should be given a chance to participate in a smart way, in a way beneficial to society, if he is able to provide such a thing. The most important of all the notes we've heard in the end is what our relationship to the police is, so this classic police force in our society today. If the question was directed to the MPs of the SNS or our party in any way, the answer is quite clear. So, we support our police and we're proud of how the police carry out their duties today, how they do their job. The job is directly important for the protection of all citizens of our country, not only because of the extraordinary results measured there by some indicators, it's done by experts, if we talk about professional access today, so they show that, for example, the rate of crime has been constantly decreasing for years back, if you want from quarter to quarter, from month to month, which is an indication that these people are doing a great job. We already show our relationship with them by respecting their results on individual examples or cases. You know, when that unpleasantness happened to Borko Stefanovic a few months ago in Krusevec, the policeman reacted. A police officer present at the scene reacted directly and helped this Stefanovic. They will not say that afterwards either Borko Stefanovic, or this team around him, but rather many lies have spoken on the subject, but the fact is that then a police officer helped him and not only helped him, but he received more blows by saving him, and then that Stefanovic appeared himself, but also the people around him, Djilas, Jeremic he Zelenovic, these Bastacians and all say – the system wanted, the evil system. Alexander Vukic, probably again by name and last name and everyone with him, to attack Borko Stefanovic. What about the cop who saved him on that occasion, if not the man who works for the state directly? So it's an indicator of how it reacts today, how everyone's protected as a citizen, and yet on the other hand, no one can count on it to be special if it deals with politics. The police know and want to come to the door and people who have been elected representatives of the SNS if there is a need for it, if someone has sinned or there is a reasonable suspicion of such a thing. For that, you have a bright set of examples in months ago. You were also talking about these examples today. So the police are doing their job highly professionally. Who wants to bring any clue of how the police are doing their job? So those who insist on disrupting the peace and stability of this society. It's you gathered around Dragan Gilas. You are constantly being broadcast the most negative propaganda possible at the expense of our police and how they do their job. Today we said, in this very debate we reminded, did anyone see a police officer try to look at people who did not report meetings, walk around Belgrade or any other city? Well, it's not. It's said a democratic country, it's a wide road to everyone, just don't endanger other people, just don't endanger other people's property, feel free to walk all you want, and when you didn't report and put the tent on the lawn even though you didn't report it. We all know you and we know it's not by law, but no one will touch you, no one will look at you any further, just don't touch other people and don't destroy what's other people's. It was difficult for them to listen to this basic request until the end, so you know what they were doing both in the RTS and in front of the presidency building and in front of the police station, on the same day they broke up the signs and fences around the Serbian presidency. And what did the police do? Did she ever apply force, even proportional to what she was exposed to, and they threw bottles at her, pulled knives at her, tried to run her over with some van. No, it's not, so it's about serious people, top professionals who are able to endure what nobody else probably would, because they know it's important that we keep the seriousness and keep this peace and keep it stable, to meet those who are deliberately trying to cause unrest and reckon, either the worst we can do, because they will. And we really need to try not to get any provocations done, so they don't get a chance to cause a riot in this society. If you want to, when Dragan Gilas gets in his face, and you've seen these videos for sure, officer, honest man who's doing his job professionally and threatening him, he's threatening him openly. What do you want to do, what do you want to do, are you thinking about what's gonna happen to you and yours when I come to power? It's an indicator of the worst possible relationship to the police. And to that man himself, but also to the police in general. And that kind of haughtiness, and you know it well, shows that same Gilas and this crew around him and others, to everyone they don't like in any way. Here's what they did to some journalists again today, and they threatened that same language to the journalists of a television show what you're going to do, and think about it, you're done when we come to power. And a man asks, "Wait, what is this? Is this a threat? Gilas says so confidently – it is my personal promise to you. So, that kind of haughtiness that they demonstrated to the journalists of other houses and people on one daily list, it was also threatened and not one, I was wrong now, I know at least two daily lists, people were speaking publicly on television to complain about what this looks like, what this attitude is to journalists. Ask a question to Dragan Gilas that he doesn't like, and this one immediately starts with open threats. That is, therefore, an indication of disrespect, an elemental disrespect for various professions and, let's say, those media, if we need to talk about who respects them in this country and who threatens them, but also the police. When it happens to you, for example. Someone gets an invitation to contact the prosecutor in Panchevo, and that's what happened to that deputy Gilasov at the Belgrade City Assembly. This one will not answer the call, it deliberately provokes a police officer to come to the door and say, "You have received a call, what is controversial, wants to see you as a competent prosecutor." To show it again tomorrow as some terrible police repression, as brutality, as a chican, whatever, it's an indicator of your relationship with both the police and the prosecution and the state in every way. It's the manner of political cowards, people, completely hopeless, empty who can't offer anything else. What you need to attract attention in this way, to play the victims, and it's clear to everyone that it's just acting and lying. You take calls, you don't answer once, two, three, four times, and you're so smart as to admit that you know your calls are coming, because you're saying that after someone else I called them on the phone to tell them that I'm not at all at that address that they're sending. So, you know they're coming to you and you're not answering, so that when the police come and they say, "This is beyond all measures," you're supposed to show up when someone calls you, so you say, "Here, they're haunting me, here I am." When you threaten, as these teachers of yours threatened, the professors also spoke of them today by fellow Atlagic, long pipes, and then someone came to ask you – excuse me, can you repeat it, but this time for our record to record it in the police, what you said. It's no persecution or chic, it's not harassment, it's no indicator of dictatorship that they're all capable of talking about day and night if they need to. No, it's a normal relationship to the law. What if it's not a completely unacceptable threat when someone like that Granny says, I quote him, they had long pipes, and they got in. Is that agreeing to break in with long pipes? Is this message supposed to come in with long pipes? It needs to be hacked, if it's with long pipes, under those conditions it's good. Is that what you said? Was that a little bit? Then he said, "What are you doing?" Then he says, point that pipe to your colleague's head. Now take it and read this paper. So, calling someone to point a pipe at their head, you'll rarely find an example to compare it to. It is to this extent irresponsible, it is to such an extent harmful that it is absolutely amazing that someone does not understand what is wrong with it. But that's also your relationship with professionals who aren't journalists and in that RTS, loved someone or didn't like them, but also to the police, who came in politely tomorrow and said, "Now this needs someone to explain nicely to us, that we would have made an official lead, we would have made a note about it." Jump, so now I don't explain to you here these different epithets of who everything is and what it's like to say -- no, it's persecution, it's harassment, it's destruction. What's the persecution, what's the dictatorship in this country? We illustrate here every day and it can last as long as you want, just showing what's being tolerated here as the most normal thing in the world. What an abomination and vomit and indifference and lowness, what everything can be said and written and written about Alexander Vukic, about people who are in his immediate environment, about the closest members of the family, about people who are our political representatives either in the Serbian government or in the National Assembly, it is up to that extent that no one looks or respects them anymore. One day on the front page, Alexander Vukitch is Hitler. On the second day, he's Pinochet, still drawing as they are now, I guess, in a stadium that's going to build Alexander Vukic, some people are having an armed funeral, to end up there the way they ended up at Pinochet's. It's people, those people who complain that there's a terrible dictatorship here, everything is beautiful, normal and it's elite. Here, today they boast of it, saying they're proud of it if they're classified in that kind of elite that hates us, which about us, who belongs to the SNS, says we're illiterate, that we're uncultural, that we're sandwichers, of course, that we're credentials, that we're society. So, nice, culturally and raised words refer to our account. Then they hate us, but they hate themselves as much as they hate us, for the fact that in this country the convincing majority don't love them and don't ask themselves for a second, they don't even think to ask themselves how they're going to love me when I tell them all the worst and darkest things a human brain can think of. I call these people credentials, I call them sandwichers, I say they're less valuable than me, beautiful, smart and elite, and then I still ask them to bring me to power, that doesn't work. When it comes to relationships in society, it's basic things. The convincing majority of Serbian citizens, therefore, are proud of the fact that we are making progress as a society in every segment, including security, that we are doing so thanks to top professionals who are involved in our police force and that is the answer to the question, if it was in the form of a question – yes, we are proud of these people and we support their work and we are equally proud, of course, of the fact that we are making progress in determining our economy and our economy, which we have sound grounds to increase our wages to everyone, what we are doing and we will do, you will see it again by the end of the year, and the pensions we are increasing, which we have already done, and we will do and we will see it again very quickly. Amongst other things, both those officers significantly or among those who receive the most significant, and of course particularly significant and persons employed in education, education, or in the health care system in the broadest sense. So proud of that kind of result, like any new open job, like any new good point, on that scale that measures the potential of this country and opens up more space to successfully build the future. These things we do together with the citizens of Serbia and there are no obstacles or barriers between us and them. The Serbian Progressive Party, in that sense, is guided by what Alexander Vukic established as a principle - we and the people are one. Those who think of themselves as some false elite, and for them we are all men of toothlessness, even less worthy, they have appointed a place for themselves. As far as we're concerned, we and our people are doing one force that just because we stick together, this kind of good results together and achieves and that's why the people in this country have something to be proud of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57277	Thank you, colleague Orlic. (Greto Peric: Replica. I have no basis for giving you a replica. The Republic may have the right of the Faith of Radet, but he didn't mention you, nor did he absolutely look back at your discussion, since Verica Radeta was his previous speaker. I really don't have... Here you go, colleague Peric. [[Greto Peric: No microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57278	We enjoy legal-political, theoretical, and even philosophical reference to what is on the agenda, but replacing the thesis is somehow not something that is very pleasant and that is welcome at all times. We believe that the largest number of officers is honest and honest people, that they do their job in a very good, professional and correct way. That goes for doctors, that goes for professors, that goes for all our professions, for judges, for prosecutors. It is exceptional that others who do not do their job properly and there are probably authorities of the state who should take care of it, and there are competent inspection services that should handle it and sanction it. There's too much mention here of a name that we almost didn't even remember, it seems to me that Mr. Gilas was last time more important than any role he had was president of Serbia's basketball bond. You're always potential, Gilas. I think the citizens of Serbia should forget him as soon as possible and we are doing everything we can to make it so. If he did something he shouldn't have done, so you're in power for seven years and I can suspect that there are a number of judges and prosecutors who are from that period and who are opposed to you and your politics, even where there are the elements of the right one. It seems to me that more of those who do their job are doing well. If that's the case, then you doubt them, or there's no part of which you're talking about, or they're not doing their job right, so you and we are mistaken, or it's something else. Something else to polarize the political scene, so there's no need for you and the others you're calling. Second, those cops, so they won't unload that municipal waste or anything else that they can't do their job. This kind of relationship, this provision in the Police Act doesn't exist. Secondly, I was talking about negative attitudes and I'm surprised, and here's everything else is right, Article 45, that is, that is, that this article's proposal should not have been found at all, because it allows what's negative to live. Where did that come from?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57279	Thank you, colleague Perich. Now, the right to the replica has Dr. Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57280	I certainly still don't think that caring about a man who's worth something negative and that's why he can't live. The other thing, much more important, whether or not Dragan Gilas threatened reporters today, is that I don't have to say anything, but everyone should look with their own eyes. Did he address the way I described it here, in words of what to do and how will you when I come to power? He asks a journalist - what is this, is it a threat? He says it's my promise, my personal promise. Whether it was or not, let him look at it himself. I won't convince anyone. That video he threatened in the face of the same cop, that's what I was talking about because we were talking about the police a few minutes ago. Let everyone see, is the same procedure, is it the same way, I used the same words, I sent the same message, is it the same kind of haughtiness? Let each one look with his own eyes. I prefer it when the situation is like that. To forget what Dragan Gilas was doing, I don't agree. On the contrary, we should always remind ourselves, we should always remind because their pupils have spread again obviously, they smell that Serbia has a situation in the register today, there is much more in the budget than they left behind. That's true, there is, but to make it their prey and bring it back together in a joint chase at that state register, we can't let that happen. We can't allow for one clear reason, if last time they made us the edge of bankruptcy, on the brink of total destruction, the entire state system, everything we have, what will they do when, far and away, they find themselves again at the same opportunity? They will become far richer themselves than the last time, it's quite clear, and what of the state will remain, state, city, any level of government where they like their hands? So, that kind of devastation we can't allow for the simple reason that a new round of such a harbinger, such skin removal from the back, this state couldn't stand, couldn't get away with it after all that she'd been through. Everything we've done in recent years would be ruined, and all the efforts that have been made not only by people who are involved in politics, public service or public service in any way, but by all the citizens of this country. We shared heavy reforms, we came together to be able to invest in the roads we didn't have today, and in hospitals, schools where we needed them, and to raise wages and pensions. Now we have to give it all up, let's say it doesn't matter and still agree to fail. We must never agree to this, so we must remember and remember all the time.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57281	Thank you, Dr. Orlic. The 54th Amendment, with correction, was filed by MP Alexander Seselj. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a search of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. We move on to a search in detail for the fourth item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law amending the law on public benefit benefits. You have received an amendment submitted to the bill by the People's Parliament of the People's Republic of Rade. By written amendment, MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic withdrew on Articles 1 and 2. It's a bill of law. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Here you are, colleague Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57282	You said we were talking about a bill amending the Law on compensation for the use of public goods. It's important to know what this is really about, because from the very title it's hard for someone who hasn't followed the first part of the session to know what this bill is really about. Well, folks, it's about the government of the Republic of Serbia planning to increase the toll by 12%. It is the same government that claims that the projected inflation in Serbia is 2.8%, that the largest inflation achieved in the past part of the year was 2.2%, and when the people's hands are in their pockets, it is 12%. It's just amazing, in the principle debate, we talked about it in detail, and with respect to the fact that you, Mr. Ružić, are 100% ready for this debate, we don't question it, we just don't know if a colleague of Sinisha Mali told you what we asked him and what answers we expected of him today. If it isn't, next time, we'll wait patiently. So when this bill came in, we were pretty much astounded if it was possible for someone in the state of Serbia to increase the toll price by 12%. Then we thought that we would submit an amendment to delete this member and there would be no increase at all, so then, as people who think seriously about both the state and the good in the country, we said - it would be correct for the increase to be 2%, in line with inflation. This is what would not overly burden the citizens' budget, which would give a considerable amount of money to the Republic of Serbia's budget, especially now that we have new shares where toll is charged, because one corridor is finished, the other one might start to build, and then it will be finished. But, of course, the government would get as soon and as much as possible, as they say -- now and right now, to get as much money as possible. Then the government of the Republic of Serbia explains that it does not accept our amendment, and I repeat that we have asked the amendment not to increase the toll by 12%, but by 2%, and the government says it does not accept it for reasons, imagine, what tolls should ensure that the costs of construction, maintenance, business and development of the built-in infrastructure are restored. Well, this isn't anywhere on the globe, and it's wider. This has nowhere to go, to return what's put into the roads through the toll. Putarina is charged to maintain the roads. Who knows what it was and when it comes to this completed corridor, we'll just talk about it. If we now know in the beginning that the state is entering the construction of the Moravski Corridor, and it is known in advance that Resorna Mihajlovic has hired "Behtel", an American firm for the job without public tender, and that 300m euros have been taken from the budget, then it is no wonder that you are asking for people to pay you through tolls and what the ministers are stealing from you. That's inadmissible, gentlemen dear, inadmissible. I don't know, Minister, if you've consulted with a colleague named Cynthia Mali, we've read in the media that this law will begin to apply on July 1st. The first of July has already passed and we are now interested in when the application of this law will begin and how to charge toll on these new shares on this highway, or corridor built. But, my people, the toll isn't the only thing that's about to hit you in the pocket. Electricity, gas and fuel will accumulate, someone will say - insignificantly, but it is interesting that they also collect so that these funds will blend directly into the budget. Then you will boast that you are a successful government, that you are achieving a surplus in the budget, of course we don't know if that's the case until we get the final accounts of the budget behind us. Sinisha Mali here said that in ten previous years final accounts were made, that they would be delivered to the National Assembly, or to the MPs in September. If so, it will be good, it will mean that at least in that part of Sinisha Mali has listened to us, but it will be the basis that we can also talk about all future topics from the point of view of spent money from the budget of the Republic of Serbia. We do not use populist stories to say that you are spending the money of Serbian citizens. We speak professionally, the budget is being filled, among other things, with taxes and contributions from Serbian citizens. But the government that wins a certain number of percentages, in this case, they win the most, the government assumes the obligation and responsibility to have the money from the budget, and that is the moment when I pay the tax, and the money I gave is not mine, but the money is the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Don't hide behind that populist phrase, therefore, the obligation of every government, and it's also yours to have the money in the budget with the attention of a good host. If that's how you do it, we'll see when we get those final accounts. Electricity, gas and fuel will accumulate due to an increase in energy efficiency, so we are informed in the media, but no one has explained yet that this will increase energy efficiency if certain funds are poured into the Republic of Serbia's budget. Does this mean that energy efficiency will be improved in buildings where state authorities are located, I asked the Minister of Small, or does that mean that every man will be able to come, knock – good afternoon, Minister, I have come to give me money to fix my house or apartment, to increase energy efficiency? Where that money is going to be spent at all, as much as it's percentage not very individually for anyone who pays these bills, it's in the total amount of money a large amount of money. Same as this amount of money you're going to get from an increase in toll. You will also return the 300m euros that Zorana and Scott stole from Bechtel and shared with them, but will remain enough money and too much for what that money should be intended for. And even if it wasn't too much, it's not mandatory for one to use the road to pay through the toll that already built road. You won't even get what you boast about in public, how building corridors will increase the number of vehicles that will pass through Serbia. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, These people living in Serbia will take detours through villages, through settlements, etc. to avoid paying tolls. What you think you're going to get on the bridge you're going to lose on the keg, it's not good, and if you have powers, accept our amendment as much as you can today, given the standard of Serbian citizens, is that the toll increases by 2%, and more than that is inadmissible, inadmissible. Half a million people in Serbia are working for a minimumer, for guaranteed earnings, half a million, so don't those half a million people who somehow managed to buy someone, unfortunately, an old vehicle, someone who took care of a car or inherited it, get it from someone, so don't they have the right to, say, come from Nis to visit their relatives in Belgrade or to visit someone who has one who doesn't give it to God sick in one of the Belgrade hospitals? And if they do, that's what I said last time, someone who drives an old South four times to come out of Nis to visit his patient and pay for his toll and fuel, that's more than he's worth south. Well, you can't count, you can talk and the increased number of vehicles, etc., there's everything in Serbia and that's good, but you as a government have to take care of the general state of the people. It's not true what you're all trying to tell us is that Serbia has a much better life. The truth is, there are some jobs, it's true, the minimum one has been increased from 25,000 to 27,000, but from 25,000 to 27,000, and that's the money someone should live for. So, the truth is that some shift exists, we can't and we won't deny something that's a fact, but to the people of Serbia, it's still hard to live, the government is rude if it does this to get its hand in the pocket to collect the toll by 12%, and you're boasting that inflation is only 2%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57283	Thank you, colleague Radeta. The word is Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57284	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it seems to me that it's always a phrase for the state to take something away from the citizens and that it wants to finance some suspicious activities or God forbid the rich officials who are in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Now, we're even going so far as to deal with and prophesy, to the soul, I don't know what method, whether it's in the palm or in some other way, but we're already determining who's going to be the performer and how much it's going to cost and what kind of decision the government is going to make. Well, here, I'm asking you, do you really have an offer as a member of the government? Do you have any idea who's going to make that famous highway of Požega-Preljina? Here, I'd like to finally get that answer. So, it's always the easiest, and there's even a lot of arbitrary information here, there's crocodile tears on Serbian citizens, because there's going to be a more expensive way for them to cross the highways. Here, from Pogorec to Belgrade, the toll costs 220 dinars, will now cost 244 dinars. There, that's the difference of about 24 dinars, and because of that much toll, my God, from 24 dinars, I won't be able to come to Belgrade. So much for what it really looks like. Now, you know 500,000 people live on a minimal, but not from 25,000 to 27,000, but it seems to me it was 15,000 to 16,000, and now it's 27,000. I agree that it is not enough for a decent life but it is more important than it was five, six or seven years ago, so there will be those from Nis to Belgrade to come using highways. I'm not saying it won't, but it might be rarer than many others use those highways, so it won't be a big item. It certainly won't be decided whether it's going to go or not on the highway. What you don't want to say is that every penny that comes from public income comes back to the citizens. That's what they'll never say. Is it going back through infrastructure, through subsidies to businesses, agriculture, whether through donations to the Health Services Fund, whether through grants to the Pension-Invalid Insurance Fund, whether through building infrastructure, whether through schools, hospitals and so on? Well, I guess it's all coming back to the citizens of Serbia. Well, they don't use that good someone who fell from the moon, from Mars, from where I come from, but for me, the greatest demagogue is to fool citizens into taking their money and not having to. Here, they even supported the stealth highways, we talked about it. What's tangible, what's visible, what's already being used, we'll check that out. Well, let them check, I don't mind, but it's done, it exists, it's used. It is not just that Serbia is like a country with every mile of highway, with every kilometer of reconstructed railways, with every port that is arranged and boosts security and even sailing, becoming more competitive as a country for investment. It may be more primary and more important that Serbia becomes a more traffic-safe country by fixing road infrastructure in the first place. I don't think human life has a price we can pay if someone's got a bad path, bad signalling or bad maintenance. And then we'll do 20, 30, 40 dinars in one direction. Individually, it doesn't mean much to anyone, but are we going to have a little bit of a better road? We will. Are we going to make new roads, but not from maintenance but from other investments? They've been pretending, pretending and pretending since 2014. It will be done because Serbia has no time to deal with false concern for citizens. Serbia has no time to deal with false accusations that something is taking away from its government and this National Assembly. There is no time to argue with the rest of the world, because we have become a people to disappear, and then we can talk when everyone comes out of Serbia about what its territory is, as it has created, etc., there is only one problem, there will be no one left to live in it, because we stubbornly stick to some of the principles that have dragged us into the big problems of the past years. Now, that's one part of everything I had to say to the on-call brakers about everything that's progressed in the Republic of Serbia. We are not just fighting for investors, we are not just fighting for better quality of life, we are fighting for our citizens to have a choice whether they will go abroad or stay in Serbia. Some people think it's funny, but it doesn't matter. This shows how much they love Serbia, and if they rule, they would have no choice but to flee from Serbia, but I guess that's why the people won't, but in the elections, the ones who work and support them, and those who deal with demagogogogogy, will struggle to skip the censorship, it's a very high degree of 5%. It's very hard for them to skip the jump up even with the stick.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57285	Thank you, colleague Arsic. The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57286	Yes, 5% is a censorship to come to the Assembly, and 12% is the toll that the Government of the Republic of Serbia raises to citizens and that is the topic. Of course, it's hard to answer all these questions, but imagine how bold a national MP who has a salary of 77,000 dinars and says I can pay 12% more toll, and I compare it to half a million people in Serbia who have a salary of 27,000 dinars. They can't and I don't regret the MPs here, but the people, this isn't any demagogy this is life and this is what's real. Of course, speaking about all this, or commenting on all this which was said which was obviously personal, no, it does not occur to me, but it is interesting that the MP did not read the argument of the government, Ana Brnabić signed, the amendment is not accepted for the reason that tolls should ensure the return of construction costs etc. So, Ana Brnabic, but as a graduate lawyer, I graduated from the Faculty of Law in Sarajevo for 3.5 years, with an average score of 8.7, I certainly cannot stand on the line and answer the questions of the economic expert on weak electricity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57287	Thank you, colleague Radeta. Before I give the right to the replica of Veroljub Arsic, Minister Branko Ruzic wants a word. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57288	I thank the chairman. Of course, it's nice to listen to the exchange of views in this house, and that's all right, but I think it's also important for this amendment to take into account that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and in this and in previous mandates have done a lot to realize capital projects in traffic infrastructure, in energy infrastructure, and that in some ways it allows us to be much more receptive, more attractive to potential investors, and therefore also to create new jobs and that life. So we are aware of everything that is happening today in Serbia. As far as the specific amendment is concerned, what the previous speaker said is true, with no explanation being read to the end. Therefore, the amendment is not accepted for the reason that tolls should ensure the reimbursement of construction costs. That's right. Maintenance, business and development related to built infrastructure. Also, what is important to point out, because of the public, because of citizens, is that the prices of material, as stated in the explanation of the energy and equipment used for the maintenance of highways, regional roads and local roads, have increased in price compared to the year 2009 in the range of 23 to 32%. That the price of toll was last increased in 2017 by 10%, and that before that was last changed in 2009. I think that, of course, there is space here and for the political struggle, I won't say for, I don't want anyone to be recognized and I really ask that you don't interpret it that way, maybe for politics, but what's important is that the traffic infrastructure in this country is regulated in accordance with the needs of a modern state of the 21st century and that we take care of what makes it possible for us. Also, it's very important to see what the structure of the users of our highways is. So we're not talking about private persons here, and unfortunately there are these cases where those who are really worse property, but we also have a lot of trucks passing through our highways in an increasing number, and that's where the state and the budget get an enormously higher level of funding, and in that sense I don't see a reason to talk about any realized infrastructure projects, whether they're announced.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57289	Time, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57290	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57291	Thank you very much, Minister. Now the right to replica has Mr. Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57292	You know, when we want to put something on some dramatic level, we're going to talk about percentages or percentages. Here, I'll translate, 24 dinars, Firefighter-Belgrade. Now, that's how much we're talking about, not hundreds, not thousands, but 24 dinars. What surprises me is that when nobody discusses it, someone who doesn't drive a vehicle and it's not a sin on this matter, I just want to know if there's any sense of what it's like to drive in winter that's not cleaned up, or who needs to be cleaned up for this humble amount. That's what I'd like to hear from you. So that's what I'd like to know, when someone's criticizing something, at least to know what's being won and what's being given. There's no such thing here. By the way, she doesn't even know my professional equipment, I don't expect her to.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57293	Thank you, colleague Arsic. Now I'm setting a two-minute break.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57294	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. Wait a minute, let the assistant secretary tell me who asked for the word. Natasa Jovanovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57295	I'm reporting for an amendment from my colleague, Radeta, and it's really a shame, but there's no Minister Ruzic at the moment, but not the Finance Minister Sinisa Mali here, I've been thinking from the principle debate to the amendments that he's going to somehow find some explanation from exactly 12%. He didn't have the answer to that question. We have submitted an amendment, or co-worker of Radet, that the toll price is aligned with the price of inflation, or projected inflation, here's how it is here and how you claim it to be 2%. Now we're coming up with some other economic parameters. The last time the excise on fuel increased and the proposal was here at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, it was, even by a higher percentage than the projected inflation, because it is in line with prices for a little in Serbia. We now have a situation that the price of fuel in Serbia which, however, these days is slightly reduced, but believe it is very fast changeable, because this excise that is and is high remains. Then we get to it, how come you didn't take that model to handle it? When Zoran Drobnjak said on behalf of all of you and the National Assembly and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I watched him in the morning programme of one television with a national frequency, that he would exactly be 12%, the question arose -- who dictates the price of tolls in Serbia. Does JP "Serbia's Ways" and its V.D. Director Zoran Drobnjak or are they wondering, however, the MPs, the Government, and have you consulted at all people who need to tell you, people from the economy, if we're talking about this aspect of the economy, about trucks, Mr. Minister, what are they going to tell you? First of all, that's not true at all. If you take statistics and look at the main shipping houses from all over Western Europe, Serbia is not their chosen route, but Romania and Bulgaria. I'm talking about over 70% of trucks with Turkish registration plates that choose that path. We also have a drastic example. As early as 2013, when the toll was increased by 20%, one of the largest transport companies in Germany, Willi Bec, with those famous yellow and blue letters, had until that time on the highway, whichever one of us travels, and every day I go from Kragujevac to Belgrade and back, when I come to congregation meetings, committees, because of party affairs, so at any point you could see on that stake, including you, Mr. Arsic, to Pogorec, at least one or two of the company's pickers. Even after the first such increase came, they made a decision, as many others, to bypass Serbia in a broad port. You've seen the answer the prime minister gave and all the money invested in the travel infrastructure has to be returned. I'm asking the question here - what about all the inspections for road infrastructure so far? Actually, we're asking you to file a report. Here, this lady, the minister who was, she's just talking, talking, talking. Come on, here, we've got three reports on the agenda next week. Well, if you don't have a report, it's the possibility of every ministry, of how it's built and what is the state of travel infrastructure. We want to build roads. After all, by building roads, highways, highways, highways, you raise the general standard of living, the possibility of economic development, the better life of all these people, and no one has anything against it, but from 12% when it is still something that will mostly be paid by citizens of Serbia. You act like everyone in our country has a rolling stock like some Serbian tycoons or rich people. Do you know, gentlemen of the people, and I really don't get into who of you has a rolling stock and what you're driving from cars, but in Serbia over two-thirds of the population of Serbia has Euro 3 engines in their cars, and they're used to being quite old. Everything that's over 10 years old, so that's going to waste in the West. How much is a remont turbine? How much do other failures cost? They buy people the most, here, look at this site, not to advertise them now, come on, used cars, most of them are asked for used ones up to 2,000 euros, that's 58%, here, I wrote it down. Well, then they go from 3,000 to 5,000 euros, they might have Euro 4, that's 24%. All this more expensive, so that's the Euro 5, Euro 6 and these new ones, so that doesn't have a total of 10%, 15% of Serbia's population. You've increased the price for registration, actually, and you've increased the technical review, excuse me, which has increased by 300 percent, at least. There were about 1,000 dinars, so when they give you regular registration, it depends if you're loyal to that agency or that insurance. Now it's from 3,500 to a fantastic 4,000 dinar. She explained here, she's Maria Obradovic, she's an engine expert, she's a traffic safety expert, she says – what do you want? Now it's a strict check. That's not true. They're licensed, but they have cameras and it takes longer. I was just on registration, now a few months ago of my car, that man says nothing else – he just needs to stay longer, he's gonna look at it, but they're filming us, so that we don't lose that license... But it costs 4,000 dinars now. Do you think people really need to pay for that? You keep talking about this highway, the new stock, it's all nice and it's faster to get to Greece at sea, for those who can go to sea, for some it's a real, same thought noun. Here, in Kragujevac, if we were to do a survey now, only that this Vukadinović and these fake polls are not working, but if someone were to do some serious research, do you know how many people have never gone to Nis, it's not just who has to go to Belgrade, and whoever has to pay the toll, and it's usually a pain to enroll a child, to visit, not to let God go to the doctor. Now we say everything is great and we get to that 12%. So this isn't something you needed, you have a lot of money. For every 1,000 liters of fuel, the state receives 108 euros through excises and other interventions. Well, here you go, take it from there, get rid of all those agencies, make sure you don't have malfeasances, that Zorana doesn't do it in her ministry and in companies that they don't get jobs like that, those who give money to who needs it, and then you'll save a few hundred million euros and invest in travel infrastructure.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57296	The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57297	This is a replica of your replica to me, if you please. I'll be very brief, otherwise, since you say you can't talk about toll and roads to someone who's not a driver, true, I'm not a driver, but then I understand that I'll only be able to talk about this when flying cars are produced in Serbia, so I guess it'll be as fast as you promise, so here's the deal for the advance.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57298	Now I'm supposed to ask you to come to the presidency and I'll answer your line. The word has the People's Messenger, Aleksandra Belačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57299	Thank you. I'm reporting for Mrs. Radette's amendment. I think it is important to explain to the citizens that the correct claim has not been made here, that the toll in Serbia is the lowest in Europe. Putarina may be among the lower if you look at its absolute amount, but if you look at the percentage of the toll compared to the public's purchasing power, you will conclude that the toll in Serbia is either the most expensive or the most expensive in Europe. This latest 12% increase, despite the January 04th promise, by Minister Zorana Mihajlovic that there will be no increase in toll, is certainly something that does not surprise us, but we are surprised that you stopped at this and did not impose any additional measures. The fact is, the asphalt is expensive, and it's going down fast, so we're surprised you haven't come up with the idea of removing the asphalt and leaving us to drive around for the gravel yet? Also, I would suggest that you continue to calculate the toll as a maximum speed ratio and the product of maximum load capacity and distance. You'd make more money and you'd certainly have a bigger surplus in the government register. Then you could introduce tolls for pedestrians, because it really doesn't make sense for anyone to move for free. You can set up charging ramps every few kilometers, so that if you hire municipal millionaires to make sure that this is paid regularly, thus fasting three benefits in one - first of all, reducing unemployment, proper cost allocation, and, of course, raising funds for additional investments. Then we can go one step further. I think it'd be okay if you introduced tolls and animals, there's no need for them to walk around the natural habitats for free. The only thing that needs to be organised is the system that's going to charge for it, and I think it would be okay for that obligation to fall on local self-government where the animals are. Of course, I'm ironic and, of course, I have a very negative attitude towards this gathering. We've had several occasions here to hear how the advent of "history" is used when the currents of the ruling regime are praised, so we've had a historical surplus, we've had a historical inflow of foreign direct investments, historic success in diplomatic activities. I don't know why now, by the same principle, don't you let us know that this is a historic gathering? I've already talked about the numbers paid in the country in the toll area. So nine euros are paid for 10 days in Austria, Slovenia 15, Hungary 11, Romania four, etc. So, the toll collection system by time, not by mile, is much cheaper. For some reason, however, the introduction of vinjets is avoided in Serbia, primarily because the funds collected by this route are not enough to build roads, but also because the introduction of vignettes would no longer be possible. We don't think it's justified that roads are financed from citizens' pockets, not from concessions, not from loans, not from budget surpluses. If you do not have enough funding in the budget, you should, first of all, stop funding all kinds of scum that work against the state of Serbia, from "woman in Black", through the Helsinki Committee on Human Rights, to various gay organisations, in which there are all, only members of the gay population do not exist. Then you can reduce the number of agencies and the money will be collected. There is no need to increase tolls and burden citizens who are already burdened enough. Citizens, of course, do not know what Minister Sinisa Mali is in charge of, which is in charge of Zorana Mihajlovic, what is the obligation of local self-government, they just want to drive on roads that are in good condition, and unfortunately, with us in Serbia, there are few such roads. On Gazela, you banned the traffic of cargo vehicles, to reduce traffic, and the situation is such that the crowds are never higher and that in the afternoon it is such that from New Belgrade, hence, from Genesis, it takes more than an hour to wait across the bridge. Recently, we had a situation that after the showers, there was a flood, when the water on the highway stood at one metre. How many cars do you think she drove after that, Mr. Minister, had to go to repair? In addition to our citizens paying the highest amount for registration in the region and paying for gasoline the most expensive, which they now have to pay and repair because of the poor conditions on the roads, you have also decided to raise their tolls. That's a lot. And it's not about the amount of 24 dinars, it's the amount of 24 dinars per toll ramp. If someone goes to one place a day and comes back, they have to go through two payment ramps, which is 48 dinars, and if we assume that we have a person who lives in one place and works somewhere else, and that works 20 days a month, that's 960 dinars, which is not negligible for someone who receives a minimum. We've already talked about the American firm Bechtel. It's a company that pays a percentage to those who bring them in and help them close the deal. The company's malversions have already been revealed in Kosovo and Croatia, and so have we. In Serbia, 800m euros were paid, although the real price was 500m, which is 37.5% higher than the real price, for which China's China-based company "Teana Roads and Bridges" was ready to do the job. The 300m-euro commission probably went into the pocket of Minister Zorana Mihajlovic, Ambassador Scott and others. If we're going to pay commissions that go into ministers' pockets, if we're going to do the same shares twice because of the slide, then this collection certainly isn't enough, and it wouldn't be enough to raise 22% and 23%. We think it's far easier and far cheaper to change the minister instead of these gatherings. And as unwarranted as the gathering is, it also says that it is not possible to reach Vrsac directly, or to Novi Pazar, Negotina, Valjev, Kraljev, Zrenjanin, Kikinda, Nova Varoshi, Kruševac, Zaječar and Bor. Thank you, especially because you didn't yell at me this time and let me finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57300	The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57301	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there is one logic to which every government should be managed, and therefore the Government that is current in Serbia, which is that, according to the taxpayers, according to those of whom you measure and fill the budget, you have to be very careful, in the sense that you have to take care of how much you handle and how many elements such as receiving, such as the standard, will affect how and how the population, or the taxpayers live. This is about something the SRS wants to discuss. It is a pity that it is not the resolute Minister Sinisa Mali here, not because we Serbian radicals have less trust or less respect for our colleague Ruzic, but for the reason that his ministry is responsible for increasing prices, that we are leading a controversy with him. Of course, an expert, and by the power of the argument, for the simple reason that this addition arises not for the need, for some real reasons, but arises from a one-provision that was happening on a very, very strange one. The history of this provision is contained in the fact that in the eighth month of last year it was v.d. Serbian Roads Director Zoran Drobnjak said in his public appearance that he would ask Alexander Vukic to collect 10% of the toll. Immediately, by nature and logic of things, the resolution minister for construction and traffic said that the government and the ministry had not thought about it at all, and in the end it was not a job to be dealt with by the director of "The Way of Serbia" but rather that it was both a job and a task of the government and the Ministry of Finance. That's what Zoran Drobnjak replied that he would not talk, paraphrasise, with the minister and with government members, but will speak directly with the Serbian president. Then, as an argument, he presented the information that, in addition to what is said for the maintenance of the road network, it takes a hundredm euros to cover losses for Serbia's roads. These are the words, you can find, that is all that Zoran Drobnjak said as acting director of "The Way of Serbia". What's very strange, and we don't want to be abused is the way it is V.D. Director of "The Way of Serbia" achieved. He even announced that the rally would take place from early 2019, January-February. He was so sure that he would succeed in direct contact, he said, with Aleksandar Vukic, president of Serbia, that he would achieve his intention to collect at the beginning of 10%, and we see that now the government's proposal is 12%. A man wonders what kind of social and state order we live in? How does this system work? So V.D. The director of the "Road of Serbia" deafens himself to the views of the Secretary-General, not at all attaches to what he thinks and the Ministry of Finance, does not care what the Government of Serbia thinks, but in those intimate and frequent contacts with Aleksandra Vukic, who come down to the following – Drobnjak, did you drink one or two before breakfast; Drobnjak, are you sober today; Drobnjak, can you follow what I'm saying well. Simply, man cannot believe that such a single relationship produces such authority that Serbian citizens have to extra 12% to pay for the toll collection. If it's a function of the amount of alcohol, whatever it is before breakfast, before lunch or before dinner, then it's very strange criteria. We can accept part of what Mr. Ruzic says, but these are, Mr. Ruzic, general places. It's like saying you should increase the power output. Well, who in this room and in this Serbia will deny it? We need to increase the production of electricity. You say - infrastructure needs to be improved. It's up-to-date. The roads need to be improved. You should. But, Mr. Ruzic, you could have tried to see where the road was being financed from, from, from, from, from, from, from, from, from, from, from, from, from, from, all sources, from, from, from, from, from, from, from, from, from, from, from, from, from, from, from, from, from, from, from, from, from, from, from, from, from, from, from, from, from, from, from, from, from, from, from, from, from, from, from, from, from, from, from, from, from, from, from, Each litre of oil or oil derivative that is poured into the car or used in some other way automatically implies that 1%, or one part, goes for the construction of roads and the return of loans, raising and returning credit to the name of road construction. Anyone who uses gas as energy pays the same. Anyone who registers a car, part of the registration price contains exactly that component for building, maintaining roads and repaying loans. You even have 13 points in the law on the use of funds that mean that they stand out to maintain roads, build roads and repay credits. Well, you have the use of space along the highway, and the use of space in the wider environment of roads, and the use of the fertile land available to you, which is available to you by the Roads, so you have one fact that the public needs to know. Those gas stations that are on the highway pay and what a significant compensation for it. That's annual compensation. Whoever advertises, who notices along the highway, he every square meter, that's the basic cost-paying unit, every square meter pays. You even have some units of height and width that mean paying for compensation. So you have out of this toll, the amount of toll toll, you have a series of sources of financing road construction. Putarina is charged that these shares, with all these funds, could be maintained, that the quality of the times meets the prices charged. The category of vehicle is always the same. So, what do you got? You have a devastating fact that stands out for V.D. The director of "Serbia's Road" is the loss, either minus or void, in the 100m-euro Fund. A simple man can't believe it. In that I tell you, Mr. Ruzic, the irrefutable fact that there is an increase in the number of vehicles that traffic on Serbia's roads from 49 million, as it was in 2017, to 53 million in 2018. This logic of things and economists and all those who rely on that science says – if the number of vehicles passing through is increased, why would they increase the price? The quantity will satisfy that to maintain the quality of the road. Although we're increasing it to be minimal, to attract an additional number of vehicles that should be passing those paths. No, it's the opposite here. Here, as the number of vehicles increases, the price should be increased. On average, and how in absolute value does one of his colleagues express himself, simply a man can't believe it. Not to argue with that colleague, because he's not in a situation right now, but let's just say that you give a level five grade primary school to calculate for your math homework, he'd count better than his colleague tried to paint it. But we are people of tolerance, we, people, have understanding, especially towards those who were with us yesterday, have sinned against us, about the SRS, but it doesn't matter. It's important that a man finds out something. Here, let me explain what the point is, what a colleague tried to explain. The point is precisely on a real plastic case, road sections from Belgrade to Pogorjevac. Now the price of compensation for using that trip is 200 dinars. You have a simple receipt. The man who comes to Belgrade should also return from Belgrade. That's 400 dinars. It's not a road without a return, as Arsic wanted to show it. It is, however, a man returns, if he lives in the Fireman. And look, when you calculate that only once a week a man has the need to come from Pogorec to Belgrade, only once a week in a year, it's 400 dinars times 52 weeks, because 52 weeks, Arsic, if something hasn't changed, there are weeks in a year, don't you agree? That's 20,800 dinars at the present price. Look, what's the point of this particular case? When you have in mind that the total highway between Belgrade and the Fireman is 39km, do you know how much the cost of using that highway comes out? Five euros per 100 kilometers. Thirty-nine kilometers has a highway, this is a highway away, Mr. Arsic. There's a difference between the freeway and the highway. (Miss Radeta: Less petty.) I enjoy helping a dear colleague who can't answer now, not asking for this answer, but purely educationally. Secondly, let's not make it so much right now that someone thinks it's for some personal reasons. He who travels at least once a week on the Belgrade-Nish route, should single out 800 dinars in one direction. To return, it's 1,600 dinars, at current prices. I speak at current prices. When it is calculated, it is 160 euros in a year, or 640 euros, I apologize, 160 is for Pogorec. Six hundred forty euros per year, only once a week to come to Belgrade and return from Nis. In three years, it's 1,800 euros, just one solid car used to buy a man, don't you agree? It's not negligible when you turn it into something that's tangible, something that's visible, 1,800 euros in three years, it's not a small expense. Now, which logic led the government to accept an increase in prices, not 10% as the original proposal v.d. Director of Travel, care for 12%. We simply can't, we radicals, to understand, that it has increased, that we can't be such little things as to say, although it needs to be very precise here, that it has increased by real inflation, or projected inflation, which is about 3.8% projected, so to say, come on, okay, these costs are covered. But that's far from what inflation contains, this is 12%. If we cover the losses incurred by V.D. The director of the "Road of Serbia" 100m euros, so people, as long as we suffer such people as he used to be the minister, tells those who charge the toll -- don't steal, but steal. Now what do we have to say to this director, don't drink, just drink? That sipping of yours, that's 100 million euros we need to get out of the pockets of those who use highways. However, the very important information presented by this already mentioned one, Zoran Drobnjak, has been missed by the public. Do you know what he said? It will also go with a proposal to charge tolls on the master roads and those vehicles weighing 7.5 tonnes. In light of his idea proposal, he said that the increasing number of freight vehicles weighs more than 7.5 tonnes that avoid using highways, and that in this way, using highways, they are actually destroying roads, not paying the toll and that they will propose it to the president of the state. It's only a matter of a moment, if this worked, the only question is the moment when it, through its very strange connections and protections, will do so. That is, by the way, the man who came during Kostunica's government. You know, there used to be an unwritten rule among many in Serbia, give me a year to work at a gas station, and then after that, since it's privatized NIS, it now says -- give me a year to work on the toll collection. It doesn't suck. So we can tolerate all of this by having the head man in office for many years and, in fact, it turns out that he is realistic by his influence over the Minister of Construction, the Resord Ministry, above the finance minister and above the Serbian government. Our Serbian radicals wouldn't be interested if it wasn't for the Serbian citizens. You can't use this logic to go up the price, this is an ominous method. Remember, someone said 2017 was the last pick-up, it was 10%, and it was being corrected. Before that, there was a greater increase, so it was rectified, so it was said, we have to go down. Why? Because by the number of users you collect higher income. The greater the number of users, the higher your income, not by you increasing the price, and then it will happen that we will soon discuss how Zoran Drobnjak imagined it, we will discuss the introduction of toll collection on the master roads as well. It is reflected, in the extreme case, that, colleague Arsic, is an economic category, it is paid by end-users, and the end-users are those who, through the purchase of goods that are transported, have to pay the increased price of the goods, because they have also collected transport costs. It's something that's inevitable. It can't be stopped by you sharing subsidies. No subsidies are provided when you pour fuel, when you pour oil, when you pour gasoline. You know exactly what these funds are for. No toll subsidies. It's true, these are the means of purpose. What you're saying doesn't belong to the category of means. But it's very, very wrong for us, for the radicals, that there is no Secretary of Finance here. So that we don't have a story, here, we're going to give you a couple of parallels. Let's say, as we said five euros cost 100km from Pozarec to Belgrade, on the basis of the current price, look, in Croatia for 100 kilometers that is six euros, in Italy 6.5, euros, Turkey 4 euros, Poland 2.25 euros, Macedonia 4.5 euros, Spain and Portugal is 9 euros. This is what I'm telling you about countries that have the same criteria over miles, and when compared to those countries that have introduced vineto to pay for roads, it's something that involves a time period, then it's not cheap at all. It cannot be spoken here, and in the principle debate we gave you data when compared to the standards of citizens in these countries, then it is far the most expensive thing Serbia pays in most cases. There's only BiH, there's Macedonia. But we're not going to measure ourselves and look up to Macedonia, to Northern Macedonia, I'm sorry, since she's changed her name now? I guess we should compare ourselves to some countries that are in the development of road infrastructure far ahead, we should strive to do so. Then you have, say, a year in Austria is a vignette of 87 euros, and with us a man pays more if he goes from Nis to Belgrade once a week in a year. What kind of logic is that? Not to mention Switzerland and some other countries. You have in Hungary...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57302	I apologize, colleague, you have spent your time as well as yours as an authorized and time-consensual group.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57303	Time is the least of the problems, this is about citizens' money.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57304	I agree. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57305	Thank you, Mr. Arsic, and thank you for sending me some information, which is certainly useful for this debate right now. I'm going to use them to make sure that those who have longed to hear your opinion, that is, the data and the percentages you mentioned today, a little more carefully. Of course, it's an interesting topic and, of course, it's an important topic. That we have to explain, for example. That when something improves, that when something expands its capacities, it means proper maintenance, so I don't know how much it makes sense, but it's clear to each other that it goes, that progress, development implies proper maintenance, in every sense. Here, the company takes, develops, advances, employs more people, wins a new market, and then at one point it means - well, we need more space and for new people to receive them and new machines to insert them. Now if someone showed up at that point and said-- well, we're going to have a higher maintenance cost than this one today, so don't do that, there's not gonna be any progress, there's not gonna be any company. That logic and that concept to apply whatever level you want, nothing changes, each other follows. You have a way where you didn't have it until yesterday, I guess it's good and useful, that you're going to keep what you built and you didn't have until yesterday, that's understood, but it's always a question of whether it's good for you and if you have where to do that maintenance, nothing else. It's the same for the bridge. You didn't have it, you're gonna do something, you're gonna keep it going tomorrow. Is it more useful than what you've invested? I'm not talking, of course, about Gilas's bridge, although as many calculations have been mentioned today how much something costs a piece, a mile or a meter, how long it falls on which length, it can't answer you exactly today either, but it's much worse than the cost of highways per mile in construction, and it's in the worst possible terrain. And the one around the Gredella that we've mastered, and you take as an example, so you compare it to, so there's no mile this bridge over Ade, so it's going to be times 10, 20 or much stronger. You don't know today, and it's rarely anyone who can explain exactly how much it costs, so you can express it by one mile to see what it is when something is completely weird, completely abnormal, and about the acceptability to not talk about this opportunity. But I always run what Jeremic himself said on the subject when Gilas kicked him out of the party, so Gilas said -- you can't, Jeremiah, spend seven million dollars a year there in the UN, and this one returned to him, he says -- even if I spent seven million, we could spend 60 years like this in the UN, so it could be cheaper again than that one of your bridges without access traffic. Spend, and look at the length of the bridge and you'll see what has a strange, very strikingly strange price per mile, if we're talking about any infrastructure. Anyway, let's get back to this one of ours. So you invest and build where there isn't. Do you have any idea where you can finance your maintenance tomorrow? What are your powers, your ability to express something? There are, I think, very picturesque data that you sent me, Mr. Arsic. What can people in Serbia today, and how much better they can do, have to do with the percentages mentioned, and it wasn't until a year or two ago? Pensions have increased 12.5% over the past two years, official data. The biggest increase, of course, was for those who had and received at least pensions. That's the most righteous thing they can do today, and they can do a lot more than they could have done before. There's always the answer and there'll be more. These pensions will increase in a period that comes very quickly. By the end of this year, we expect a new increase. What else can we do today and more and better than we could have done before? Look at the public sector, pay. Look, let's say, the area of health and education, we mentioned them today. How much are the salaries on that, say, two-year level? Twenty-eight, 30%. I'm talking about percentages. We need to talk about these percentages, and we need to hear about them, and that, of course, does not mean the end and not the point is put, but the answer is always and there will be more, and it will be very soon, right in these sectors. In total, look at the public sector 12 to 23% more today than before this period. More 12 to 23%. We're so much stronger and so many people can afford more and better than before. In total, look at the average wage, it's close to 12% in both sectors, so both state and private. How much is that salary worth now? About 463 euros, so we can go back, but not two years back, but go back to what it was during the former regime. Three hundred thirty-seven euros. If I'm wrong, let me be corrected. One hundred twenty-five euros difference between the average salary and that 337, 36%, right? When we say the goal is, and this is the goal that will also be seen very quickly, the average salary in Serbia of 500 euros, and to compare that difference 160 and some euro with those 337, 48% more. So much better can the average citizen in the Republic of Serbia allow himself and to finance any cost, but also any needs of his own compared to the period when the regime that paid for the bridge took care of this country. That 420 and plus euros, without access to traffic by own admission, at what length? There's no miles? There isn't. Minimum labour price, this two-year window, 19.5%. You're right, Mr. Arsic, these 27,200 didn't start to grow at 25,000, but it grew on average at 15,000 and some dinars. Look at that difference and listen again and understand the same answer. It's not over, we're not happy, we'll do it yet. Let's go to the minimum labour price on average at the monthly level to reach that minimum consumer basket in the country, to start following each other. The question – how are we in the budget and are we satisfied with it? There's no colleague who asked the question, but the answer is easy to give. Yeah, we're happy, 21 billion and a little more dinars, now it's in the plus. This year in the Republic of Serbia's budget, and this has been happening for the fourth year in a row. Since investments are mentioned, it is not 12% but 17%, we have 17% more investment in Serbia this year compared to the previous one, and the previous one was great. It hasn't been a bad year, so to say it's easy to make big progress now. It's been a fantastic year. Three and a half billion were investments in Serbia last year. When we talk about the subject where we categories are the biggest thing in Europe. On these topics of growth, growth annually of 4.3%, which Serbia recorded last year. Officially, serious international institutions are using this. It says it was the "top ten" of Europe, when you look at growth. ‘Top 10’. Is there anything better? What does this growth have to do with our powers and abilities to further promote you in the period ahead of us? It's got all kinds of connections. The investment plan for the next few years, worth five to ten billion working on today, is directly related to that growth. If growth is such that only through growth, this is financed, which would mean that it is over 4%, then it represents a sustainable mechanism, a mechanism that pays itself, or does not eat, does not endanger itself, does not introduce instability, does not make it take risks or something extra debt, but only on the basis of what we make ourselves, we release space to invest more. In order to maintain growth from these investments, we need to invest wisely. What does that mean? Right in the highways, right in the construction of the infrastructure that is missing and the sewers, that is, and also in the paveding of roads of all possible categories and freeways. In such things, we will invest our growth to encourage, so we will have where to finance new investments. It's a serious approach, it's a smart approach, but out of all that, citizens don't just have a way where they didn't have a bridge and a tunnel where they didn't have different objects, like health homes, clinical centres, where they didn't have them, but they have a place to pay you to grow that purchasing power grows. We can do this thanks to this situation in the budget, this growth in wages that aren't the biggest in the world. That's right. If we're talking about the region, they're better than that northern Macedonia. They're bigger, they're better than Albania. Come on, if it doesn't surprise anyone, but they're better and bigger than in BiH. Yes, and it wasn't like that, we're behind, and now we're officially past them this year. The first time it was measured was, I think, in March of this year. That was 12 euros more average in Serbia than in Serbia, and we continue to grow. We keep working and this is going to be the increase we're talking about very quickly. You'll see in the months ahead, we're approaching the end of 2019, as we entered her second half. You'll see at that moment when new increases come here how that difference will reflect, but that's not all either. We said we're not satisfied with the kind of success that represents the current state. We're always more interested. These increases will catch up with Montenegro, and that will be seen. That was completely unimaginable at a time when we lag behind the average salary level for Montenegro for, what, 150, 160 euros. Now all that time is shrinking. In the last two years, the best we've seen is how well and fast it's going down, and that's why we can say – we'll catch up and we'll outrun Montenegro. Costs that count in an interesting way at the level, well, if it's this much per day, so let's imagine the situation, so let's multiply by the number of months, so with some number of years, that might be interesting, that sounds so attractive. The question is how useful it is. As we don't have to explain whether you have to maintain what you built for yourself, you made it possible because it's good and useful for you, and you have where to come from. For example, there's a minister, I think it has something to do with your sector. Yesterday we opened the Data Centre in Kragujevac. Imagine someone saying - we shouldn't do this because we won't pay for the maintenance of a server there or a man who needs to get old about it, so we don't want to increase the cost, and how much we're going to save by introducing digitisation in this country in a smart way, to forget. It's not a smart approach. As it's not wise to forget how much you save by having a quality way where you didn't have it, so you don't have to pay for car repairs, so you don't have to pay the difference in fuel that you spend by going to those detours that some think is going to be number one to everyone in this world. No, no. You need to be serious here, so see how much something pays. Just as important, if not most importantly, what I'm talking about right now, what you can finance and why you couldn't and why you can't, and just because you're investing and creating, but these picturesque examples that can sound attractive, and they don't have much use for it, they always give me back... I think that's the first time you've mentioned it in a popular movie, it's a Hollywood movie. He talks to his wife who resents him for spending money on cigarettes and asking him – how much do you spend a week? He's telling her. She says, "Yeah, it's this much a month, so times the number of months a year, so the number of years you consume cigarettes, and she says, "You see how unserious you've spent money, and you could buy yourself a new one, cash out, the most modern BMW, and he looks at it like this -- do you smoke, and she says, "I never did, and then where's your BMW?" That's about the answer to those metaphors and parallels that we can do and what we're going to lose in a year or two or three because in an acceptable, sustainable way we invest in what we've provided ourselves. That's about the best possible answer. Serbia should deal with its needs wisely. Serbia should invest in its growth and its development, precisely because its citizens would have more and that tomorrow, everything they provided, and did not once, have in an appropriate way to maintain, but also make it even better and invest even more. These salaries and these pensions are parallel to their growth and to see how all of a sudden it all starts to make sense and how everyone can understand it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57306	Right on line, MP Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57307	We understand this debate that we should study whether such a gathering is necessary? And there's only one argument. What is the result of this accumulated? What parameters? Has the quality of the roads changed except for these newly built shares? Nobody slows it down. Those that are put into charge traffic are determined by the price, because their quality is much better than those that have been used for years and months, it is irrelevant. And there's no one to slow down. But this is about an increase, a general increase of 12%, and look, we're going with logic, so it's better to have an acceptable toll price, so it attracts the largest number of vehicles that will go through Serbia, so over the fuels they have to pour in Serbia, over everything else they supply in Serbia, they're about to provide a large portion of the funds for the needs you're talking about. These funds used to buy fuel, they are used to maintain, to repay credit, to raise credit, to build new highways. It's defined by law. There's no deviation. It's not at all controversial. We're just going with that logic thing if it had to be 12%. And we wonder if it's really possible to v.d. The director, offering an argument of 100 million gaps in the financing of the "Road of Serbia" managed to cover the minus in part? On what basis did that minus come from? Let's see. That's what citizens want to hear when they're paying, and that you don't possibly accept these examples or accept, so you know, you have to find some example that's life. He's not Hollywood. Your story reminds me of that coach who came to the club in the lowest league competition, no fallout and he said – for the first four years we struggle not to fall out of the league, and then in the next period I guarantee you that we will be among the first six places. There's a total of clubs in that league of six. That's it. That's the story. The story is not based on this reality of increasing toll prices affecting costs, affecting all of us in Serbia. And we're just along the way arguing that it's...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57308	Time, thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57309	I said a word about percentages a little while ago, but I guess I wasn't clear enough. So how and where? Is 36% higher, 463 euros on average, compared to those of Gilas 337? Well, maybe that's why maybe from there. Is that 500 that we're aiming at, and what's very soon to be reached, not to worry about anything, 48% more than this? Is the total pension 12.5%, is the total salary 12% at the level of a year or two? Make it two. Is that a problem to understand? I don't think it's any problem to understand. I agree with life examples. That's why I was talking about that bridge of Dragan Gilas, 420m euros, about their recognitions without access traffic, about something shorter than a mile away. I think it's one of the best things to paint what it looks like when something is controversial. As much as it costs and it's not a clear criterion why it's like that. Because that bridge can see anyone and anyone who sees it can't help but wonder. People have been wondering for years -- is it possible that it's so much and what kind of justification it is? As for the Serbia League, I said so earlier, but it should be heard and understood, it should be fair to accept, compete in the serious leagues of the moment it is, and last year it was in Europe's top ten growth economies in 2018. Top ten in Europe for growth. Last year, was Serbia at regional level number one, absolute number one? So strong and convincing that it's stronger than everyone else when they put on one pile together, by the investments they've drawn. Now that is proof that Serbia is able to play in the best leagues today and not only to play, but to have its place there and it can win in many ways. If the story of the leagues was at the level of party or political success, playing for the SNS team means that you are in the greatest league absolute champion, for information to everyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57310	Right on line, MP Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57311	This debate should be aimed at making citizens understand why it is a gathering. All the aids used in these discussions like Dragan Gilas and orthopedic funds are not worth it. People are only interested in what this price came from, or the percentage of the increase in toll collection, from which real or reason will there be an increase of 12%? They don't care about anything anymore, there's no party, no political debate. This is economics, mathematics, whatever you want, let's see what's the reason to collect. The comparisons you make don't exactly add up to the argument that this is justified. It's not exactly a real comparison. When you compare, here I've told you an eclectic example of how much toll is paid in Serbia and how much toll is in neighbouring countries. When you compare to average examples, here's an example. In Croatia, the average income is 846 euros and the toll is six euros per 100km. In Serbia, 460 euros and a toll of five euros. When you do the math, it's eclative data, but it's not up to us to compare it, we don't have anything, just to see if the 100 million-million-dollar dubiosis that came up in "Serbia's Ways," so let's see if there's a man who's V.D. Director, will there be more v.d. Director. Just remember, the radicals signaled to you in time that there was a need to change the leadership in Bor, that there was work to be done, just to change leadership. The Chinese are here. They don't need a director anymore. Stealing, shoveling, surviving in all regimes, all his losses covered by the Serbian government, made a great deal of dubiosis. That's what this is about, to see where the causes are and say, what's going to be wrong, what's it got to do with a coalition that's in power or individual with parties? There will be political points to earn SNS and its coalition partners if they say and this individual has contributed to poor work in roads or some other systems and therefore we have to cover these losses. That's the point.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57312	The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57313	Thank you. The Serbian Progressive Party, and everyone should understand that, is doing nothing because of political points, as political points. So the current popularity means nothing to us. This is a job that's done for history. These are the results that are created to last. To serve, then, not just someone in 2019 or any year that's a year, two, three to the election, but to keep it. To make people proud that they were in the generation that created it and that they had something to leave to their children, that they would not wait as the people of these generations waited 70 years for a corridor, 30 years at a category factory in Belgrade, 40 in Novi Sad, etc. That's why this job is done. Nis -- Belgrade 800 dinars -- it comes in 6.7 euros, 300km away, so when divided, it's about what comes in. In Croatia, I like to talk about the economy seriously. In Croatia, I like to talk about the economy seriously, they raised salaries in Croatia. How? By reducing the number of employees, all the time as they took their European path and increased wages, even when they entered Europe, only then did that trend become obvious, they reduced the number of employees and the total mass remained the same. And what does Serbia do? A dramatic increase, I said, already 36% has increased the average salary, with a constant increase in the number of employees, let them perform in Croatia or anywhere, seven hundred thousand, do not have to believe, this data is official, the Republic Statistics Office is concerned, seven hundred thousand people have provided jobs over the last few years. Somebody say, but that's not true, that's excessive, so let's say it's over 20%, it's over 50%, so it's a fantastic thing again about hundreds of thousands of people who didn't have a job, we're talking. So it wasn't about that, it was 337 at the time of Gilas, now it's 36% higher. Hundreds of thousands of people were zero, and now it's about 300-400, about 500, around 1,500 euros, and there are such new jobs. It was zero, and now it's this big. Now, that's a real economy. When we talk about Bor, the real story is like this -- we found a solution for RTB Bor, we provided a Chinese partner, a billion and 460m euros, and those who had 337 euros in average salary while on their own making 500m euros, and they paid about 500m euros a bridge that was shorter than a kilometer, they tried to solve RTB Bor four times, they solved it zero times. So we get to be at the border of any functioning, to be one step away from bankruptcy, so let's compare that and compare this today, I can only compare them and anyone else who wants to talk about it, just ask -- where's your new BMW.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57314	Right on line, MP Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57315	I'm sorry, buddy, we're going round and round. You find examples that are not adequate, you ignore the fact that Croatia's large inflow of funds provides tourism, such as Montenegro. In the rest of the economy, they may be there, as well as Serbia, perhaps below, but their tourism is a branch of the economy that brings them large revenues. That is why, among other things, they are growing these average incomes and it is not appropriate to compare them. We talk about it here, we appeal, if you understand, we Serbian radicals at the beginning said, we would like the finance minister there, it would be good to come, if there was a minister of construction and traffic. If nothing else, then to say, for moral reasons we want to announce to the public, our idea was not to increase the price of toll, he insisted V.D. The director of "Serbia's Roads", whether he will move forward, offer a resignation or ask the public for an excuse, is now their personal matter. But the public must know, we can't find out afterwards that in Boro he was an incapacitated crime director, it's not worth it to us now. No one disputes what you've brought for Bor, it's good, but here we are in a situation, or you who hold power, to replace a man who's incapacitated. All those years, so many losses, so please don't. If I have a man and leadership at the head of that institution, so let's change, let's introduce a new system of charges, to reduce the impact, as it says, of the human factor, to bring that thief down to some bearable level, as Velja Ilic would say. From the toll collection, everyone who works on the payment ramps, ask if they want to change jobs. No one will. If it was that bad, and three-dimensional work, they wouldn't be there. But it's not their fault, it's the ones they're supposed to be, is it one tied-up ball that's spinning? Let's change, so where there's huge money, there's a huge inflow of tolls. In the nature of things, after a few years there's a danger that these people who work are tempted, I'm talking about executives. The small man is here from Vojislav Kostunica, Velija Ilic brought him into it. Don't people, what we do, we cover the dubious things that have come about because of the incompetence of the people who run it.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57316	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57317	Thanks again. So this is not just a question of sources of different incomes or growth. Croatia grows from tourism, so good. It didn't matter to me at all what the reason why they had extra funds, something else I'm talking about. But if we're talking about tourism, that's where we're going back to that story we just told, where the Serbia League is. Serbia is very well quoted here and has something to be proud of. Last year, Serbia had 17% more foreign tourists than it did years ago, so much of our growth. We are therefore in top five countries to grow from the number of tourists and tourism revenues. So that's where we compete with the world and we can, as you can see, achieve extraordinary results, but I was pointing out something else. Wherever Croatia provided additional revenue, it had other old expenditures but total on salaries, and I'm talking about salaries, they didn't spend any more. Salaries grew on average, as the number of people working in Serbia decreased, and in Serbia it is the opposite, wages are rising and the number of employees is growing. So, to take out a country, it's hardly easy to do. I can't imagine a single country around here could do that easily. None of them are powerful enough to do it in a year and say it didn't take any effort. A lot of work and effort is needed, and once they're put into it, it won't be possible for everyone to do it. We are, and we should be proud of these things. So, by about 700,000 people, we have more employees than we had a few years ago alone, and now we have to compare it to the period when the average wages were falling, the average salaries were reduced, while the number of employees was shrinking by hundreds of thousands, and by that time there were records in the construction of magnificent bridges or whatever, of course, by not calculating the record of income growth in the accounts of the firm that Gilasov, which is the brotherhood that is located around him. So, once again, as far as Bora goes, it should always go back to what we did, how much was it possible or accessible to some people before us and how much they were interested in it. You know, if we did it in Bor, and we found such a model and such a partner, by the case, again from the same country, from the People's Republic of China in Smederevo, how can this be compared to anything people who, they officially said, were willing to shut down "The Iron" Smederevo. That was their solution. The pine is likely to collapse into that value that someone could put in their pocket cheaply, so they don't regret paying for it. If they do, and Gilas is public today, that's not the real price for Bor, why didn't he buy it? If he thinks it was cheap this solution that we made, which he didn't take advantage of the circumstances – in, this is very cheap and convenient Gilas, so he bought it. No, he knows it's real, but he knows he wanted something else, to cut his value even more significantly below what we've come to, so that it goes to what it's supposed to go to, probably another 500 million there. So these things don't compare, it's impossible to compare. The results of Serbia because of its hard work, because all our people have contributed and abstained and were patient, are so large and convincing that they cannot be offended by the story of whether Croatia is like this or is Greece like that. This time that we've been through, those countries haven't been through, maybe because they didn't have the kind of vermin that we had on the back of the people until 2012, so they didn't have to take any big ventures, but what we did, what we got out of, and how much we managed to fix our situation, we're gonna be proud. Today, we can also repair the costs of everything we've set up, build ourselves, and we didn't have it, we just needed it in the first place. For those of you who are trying to make it kind of official don't understand it, although they understand very well if we are to be honest, I still have to remind myself, I didn't hear where their new BMW is?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57318	Right on line, MP Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57319	When you removed those cheaters, the criminals who came from the Czech Republic to the Smederjevska Iron, came to the Chinese, it all went right. And that's the answer to the problem. When you brought the Chinese to Bor, they replaced the entire leadership, maybe they weren't literally complete, but they were the leader man. Saw people, for many years being, stealing, passing from party to party, and that's it. We're just here looking for an argument that makes this much of an increase. If it's because of these 100 million dubiosis, let's see how they came into existence. It's all about the whole story. And when we argue, then we're only obliged to give complete information. It's not 24 dinars, it's 48, there and here, it's two times 24, it's 48. For Nis, the toll was worth 900 dinars. It was 800. You can't deny that it's cost growth, it's costs, and even when a man hears there's 100 million dubiouss in Serbia's roads and it needs to be covered, as V.D. said. Director, so what do we do? What we should do, be silent and say, well, let the two or three brandy drink before breakfast, take away the drunkards, put away thieves and criminals. Serbia can't anymore, people can't fund it, they can't. Get him off that post and finish the job or get rid of the ministers, because apparently his position is much stronger, more thorough, as soon as he manages to cover his dubiosis with a large portion of the collection.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57320	The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57321	Now it will turn out that we are not engaged in the shelter of thieves and criminals, and every few months, it seems to me, to be a major police action and a lot of people who have just been engaged in public affairs end up in the news of these actions. Who does that? Who does that, if not that team of people who's been taking care of the Republic of Serbia for the last few years. I don't remember seeing the news of this content before the period when Alexander Vukic and SNS began to take care of Serbia. There has been police action, so many and so many people arrested, under these and these charges, and among them officials of political, all possible parties that occur to you and that they belong to the congregation majority at a given time and that they do not belong and that you are aware of the opposition, and that there are also former ministers, we have had more cases of such, being prominent so-called. We had the most difficult business category, i.e. tycoon, and we had several opportunities to see. So no one can say that we don't do it and that we won't do it properly. But it should not be mixed with efforts to find a solution in the form of an appropriate foreign partner. Everyone knows that if a partner from a country like China had not come to Jelizar, that solution would not have been possible, and it certainly would not have been as successful as it is today, therefore, the country that directly deals with Jelizar in this sector has the greatest opportunity to offer and to influence in a positive way. If such a solution had not been found, it would hardly have worked at all for Jelizar today, and let alone, as Xelizara did today, officially, seem to me since last year, the number one exporter in the Republic of Serbia, a fantastic result, and to keep all employees, and then to hire people additionally and those employees to raise salaries. That's all fantastic stuff. So no one can say that there is something wrong with this model, or that we have not approached it properly and that it has anything to do with your relationship with crime. No, absolutely. We're doing each other as safe and as serious as possible. Otherwise, in addition to these things, the national programme for the control of the grey economy with an action plan was adopted in 2019/20. And that's our answer to the question of the need of the state to introduce some things into legal flows, if that's what we need to talk about now. Business in the gray area by 200m euros will be reduced in the next two years and 11,000 workers and 9,000 companies are planned to complete this process in this legal zone, so that we also make additional efforts on this plan, to make a solution so that the people involved and the companies concerned, but also the state of Serbia, and there are many more laws, legality and justice, if you will, than at some point backwards. And to all of that, I just have to repeat the question -- has anyone here identified in the meantime where his new BMW is.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57322	The People's MP Milorad Mircic has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57323	Here, buddy, let me tell you briefly, all of what you are or most of what you said we will have in different materials provided by the Government and the National Bank. We will also discuss fiscal strategy, discuss monetary policy and everything. Here is simply a matter of responsibility for our, or your political increase in prices, and those who are in surgery hierarchically to see who is responsible for this, if there are any responsible ones. Hierarchical, these are "The Ways of Serbia", they are Corridors and Ministry and there is not much philosophy. If there's that much dubiosis, if that happens on the Gredile ravine, someone has to answer. Not because, not to enter these technical details, but because the additional funds have been spent, to see how justified or not justified it is, let's see how much this 12% increase of the percentage or absolute value is going to be used to cover the dubiosis, and whether it's the one or the ones who made that dubiosis, and what's the reason, whether they're going to stay in those places, the real question is going to be asked. I'm just saying the logic of things. When the Chinese came, the director of Bora was replaced. If he was good, if he was capable, who would change him? Well, we would've held him. Who's gonna change a man who's capable? But they knew he was incapacitated, and they knew that by moving from party to party, he remained in office. That's the point. Let's see how much it affects this price, the increase in this price, the chaos, the ride, the nerada, the thieving, the hierarchical, in "The Ways of Serbia", in the Corridors and in the Ministry. We watch maltenes all the same TV, the same channels. When we see a minister who goes to visit road construction, that's what a man simply can't believe. One piece of wardrobe worn by the minister and his associates costs more than the annual salary of most of those workers. So does that make sense? From where? From the minister's salary? The little guy doesn't know what he's going to hang anymore. You put this Babic on, it looks like it's only for the board of directors, it's taking out Briones, and the rinks are on the highways, it doesn't end, it doesn't care, it's the wrong thing to do because it's going to Brione.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57324	Bring the end, colleague Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57325	I've got it. Bring in these justices, too.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57326	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57327	Now, I might say for me an incomprehensible reason, but I wouldn't be honest, I understand why, I went completely in the direction of some personal comments and personal assessments. I don't understand, I have to admit, as well as some in the dressing room, which is how much it costs, but I don't see the very reason why I should comment on it right now when I don't know, and I don't think I'm interested. It is not correct to mention the way Mr Babic was just mentioned. He was at the head of the Corridor who worked to make that southern leg of Corridor 10, which raises the question of what was the reason why it lasted so long and cost so much. Well, probably the same reason it lasts 70 years. Did it take 70 years for something like this to end? Who tried and who managed to bring this project to an end? I'm not sure that, if we're talking about nature, about the most inaccessible terrain possible, that something special has changed here, so suddenly there's a plain and it's suitable for construction, and before that they were hot, hills and wonders. Nothing has certainly changed there, and it is not an indication of any dubiousness, but serious and dedicated work, that even when you have the most incredible obstacle in the world, you are brave and you will say we will do, we will find a solution, let and be late a month or six, but we will overcome it eventually, and that kind of will you show, but on the other hand, that you have where to finance such a thing that Serbia has today, and it has not had in the time of those I keep warning and reminding you of, and ultimately, you will do the result, which, once again, 70 years before you have been made, and they say that there is an even older idea of making a path that will connect Europe's heart to its south. Mr. Babic took part in this, and he must be proud of it and should bear in mind what any of us are serving here. But if we're talking about dubiosis, once again, 21 billion and something is plus, not minus in our budget right now, 180m euros is plus, not minus in Serbia. How do others see us and do they think we're in deep-dwelling or are they thinking something else? Here's just one piece of information, in 2018 we got a BB rating with positive prospects, in the Standard and Poor's Agency report, so it's about Serbia's rating. They say, I quote this now -- this is the highest rating the Republic of Serbia has received so far from Standard and Purs since 1 November 2004, since the rating was awarded. Then it was B+, and in the meantime it was changing to end up on this one, so once again, BB with positive odds. Which means that this agency believes Serbia today is at the highest level of financial health and condition in this century. It is an indicator of any dubiosis or, in fact, of the good situation in the state of Serbia. That's what we managed to do, we managed to build it, that's what we should be proud of, not trying to be pettyly mean, we don't need it. All we have to say is, it's great, it's good for business. That's why we can maintain everything we've done today. That's why we can build on it. God of health, maybe we can get everybody to have that famous new BMW someday, right?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57328	Right on line, MP Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57329	I knew that we would eventually come to an agreement of opinion. All this stuff you've brought out, my colleague, it goes in favor of the SRS claim. This even boosts our claims that there was no need for this kind of increase. Budget surplus, credit rating up, big investments, increased GDP, what's had to be hand-to-hand in the public's pocket? That's exactly what we're saying, and now you've contributed to making us even more thorough in our claim that what's reluctant, inadmissible, riding in certain segments, should be covered by an increase in prices. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, That's what I'm supposed Here, I'll tell you when it comes to the Gredile ravine, anyone can check it out. The project documentation was done by the CIP with all possibilities planned, with insurance when it comes to the Gredile ravine much larger than even theoretically. All these projects envisioned certain materials, technical conditions. Someone said it was too expensive. Who said? Could have been Corridors, could've been Roads, could've been a resolute ministry. A replacement was found. The replacement cost all of this to bring up all the problems on the Gredile ravine, and then the cost of the Gredile ravine was increased. Everywhere in normal conditions, there is a demand for the responsibility of those people who have decided on that variant. The technical authority that signed the reception after the first phase of the work on the Grdeliska gorge, unknown. Nobody knows. What's going on? It's going to the CIP and there's pressure on engineers to keep quiet about it. It's not a solution. A man who boasts, a man who is known for these multiple jumps by the president, he simply says, must cover the losses and he, in a conflict with one of us unknown to the minister, or parts of the government, has done business, has fought to have these dubiosiss in "The Ways of Serbia" covered by an increase not of 10%, as he asked, but of 12%. That's the point. Why hide it? You were just saying that maybe it took even less than inflation to raise the toll price.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57330	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57331	If only I could forget what I said now, and accept what others tell me, only if I could. So, public enterprises, if we talk about them, through the glasses used by other people who look at us on the side, work better, not worse, but better than when we started reforming. It's not in every company the same, it's true. There's a lot more work to do, but when you look at it together, it's better. And again every year is better for the shade than the previous one, which should be the trend that interests us all together. It's not just the opposite of that, it's the responsibility that we're talking about, when conditions are being created to pay for growth, what it's like to drag your hands into your pocket when you raise your salary from month to month and I've been reading data for the state sector, but it's not just about the state sector. People who come into our country to invest here, who represent these investors, say themselves, out of their mouths it comes out. Each of these increases then interferes with us, then obliges us privates to provide a proper increase. Foreign investors say we are increasing because we are trying to follow the measures taken by the Serbian government, which encourages this increase to be more significant from month to month. And this year again. You've heard how fast and you'll see a new one again. That's why in the private sector as well, it was plus over time. That's why it's about 12% now. It's not getting your hands in your pocket, it's that responsible relationship. When we talk about what we in this country managed to build, there was a comment on whether only the new highway had changed on the subject of the roads at all. Well, no, we talked about it when there was a debate yesterday, over 400 km of roads is what we're talking about, as a result. And many of the existing roads, of course, are being rehabilitated, of course, resulting in a drastically better condition than the condition in which they were found. These are all the things we have where to finance to do the project, to make it happen. And on the other hand, when we finish it, we have where to finance its maintenance. That's the essence of the story. We've got where from. It's not a change in value of two dinars or 22 dinars, by itself, how much of a question do you have from where? Make it two dinars, if you don't have where from, that's a big problem, that's a big problem. Then you have to find those two dinars somewhere, as a rule, one who knows you need them will give you that expensive. Then you enter that vicious circle, that spiral of decay that they left us in until 2012. In charge of all sides, under abnormal conditions. Who's gonna bring that back tomorrow? Ask God, it doesn't matter. However, we managed to change these things. It has something to do with the activities of Mr. Little's Finance Minister. Thanks to this and these ratings that I read earlier, this way of experiencing us all today, we are able to find the right money to replace these expensive obligations more dramatically. You know how much that saves on an annual basis? So hundreds of millions of euros, but again we're talking about plus, we're talking about hundreds of millions that we have on the good side, which then we have a place to invest. Two dinars or 22 dinars today for Serbia is something it can carry out. Two dinars in a time that was certain I had a profoundly ugly past was just a terrible problem to a huge extent impossible mission. When irresponsible and irresponsible people take care of the state then they leave it in a state where two dinars are the problem, when it's done completely differently, so people like Alexander Vukic and political representatives of the SNS take care of the state. Well, then we can also have this highway that hasn't been 70 years old and we can have about 200 new factories in hundreds of thousands to count new jobs and say it's not our goal to meet 22 dinars, so we can argue with each other, whether they're going to be provided in one way or another. If it goes across the country, it's all people's money. It doesn't matter if you gave it up with a receipt, a payment card, for some account or place for a favor, it's all folk money, it's all the same common register. So, once again, you don't have to deal with it, but the question is, do you have where and if that's your problem? Today, Serbia is absolutely not the problem, and while it is working this seriously, while it continues to increase income and wages and pensions, and continues to increase, not that it will not be a problem or that it will be less, but absolutely will not be a topic for Serbia that wants to compete with itself, but also others for Serbia that wants to win again. We know today that this is our obligation and that's our difference compared to the times we've been through. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-04-0.u57332	Thank you. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, in particular and in general. According to Article 87(5), I hereby appoint the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on Monday (July 8th), starting at 10:00 p.m. as the day of voting on the agendas of the 12th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly.
