ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64850	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the 7th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I agree that 105 MPs are present. To determine the number of persons present in the O.R., please insert the cards into the MPs' units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that there are 136 MPs present in the hall and that we have working conditions. Do any of the presidents, or authorized representatives, want to ask a question? The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64851	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, we are asking the Prime Minister or, as it is said, read to the president of the state. In fact, we are witnessing that political tensions have recently increased in Serbia and we are all aware that most of them have been caused by the influence from abroad, above all, by those countries and governments of countries that at all costs want to force Serbia to make Kosovo and Metohija become a full member of the UN and there is nothing to hide. I guess that's pretty clear to everyone. Because of the failure, for the time being, Serbia's leadership has intensified from day to day. Those in different forms, from the open diplomatic one to the activation of their satellites, as popularly said, a stableman who, by a scenario similar to October 5th, has been tasked with destabilising Serbia and seeing everything as an opportunity for them to come to power. What, in any case, contributes to increasing the intensity of these tensions is the behaviour of individual participants in the Serbian government, namely individual ministers. Regardless of party or political commitment, we must be aware of the fact that individuals, Serbian government ministers are one of the most important factors for Serbia's political, economic stability. We are witnessing that individual ministers contribute to the creation of a minority of general chaos in Serbia with their personal misbehavior, and the ruling coalition knows that and is aware of that. They are aware that the minister of traffic and construction by his irresponsible behaviour, by his dispersion, contributes with his luxury to creating a negative picture, not only of the Serbian government, but of the state of Serbia at all. And we Serbian radicals when we speak by name and last name don't talk because we personally have something against this person, but we're talking about why it's part of this whole process, or project, of foreign pressure, in this case, of the Government of America. It is known that the Minister of Transport and Construction has good relations under the authority of the US Government Intelligence Service. We must be aware that great temptations await us, especially those who have the highest responsibility for the leadership of the state, and order must be put in place when it comes to the executive body of power. Secondly, nothing less in this creation and attempt to create chaos is lagging behind and other senior leaders of the Serbian state. In the area of economy, we have the Public Enterprise of Elektroprivreda, which for many years, almost continuously, has problems in business. We warned you when it comes to RTB "Bor" that you need to change leadership, you need to change managers and you saw how right we are. As soon as foreign investors arrived, they changed management first. If it were good, who in the interest of capital and profit would change such good leadership. We in Serbia, when I say, I mean with full right to all of us, we have problems with the functioning of this public enterprise. Our question is for the Prime Minister and the President of the State – when and will they take some steps to address and stabilise the situation in this segment, to remove such individuals from the government and to shift from the current functions, when it comes to economy? Otherwise, gentlemen, tensions also boost the fact that the elections are soon and Serbia will face major problems, and the president of the country himself is suffering all the pressures, so we Serbian radicals are urging the Prime Minister to come out with a proposal for a solution to these problems, and the best way for us to do is to reshuffle the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64852	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Predrag Jelenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64853	Thank you, President. On the basis of the response I received on 11 July 2019 from the Ministry of State and Local Self-Government, and on the topic of local Security Councils, I was sent to ask my question to the Ministry of Interior – the Emergency Sector. A recent Conference on the Management and Reform of the Security Sector on Southeast Europe called for one of the main conclusions was the need to set up local security councils. The Local Security Councils Manual points out that the legal basis for establishing a Security Council stems from the Statutes of Cities and municipalities, as the basic legal act of the unit of local self-government rather than the act of more legal force than law. This allows the establishment and establishment of a Security Council to be left to any local self-government and there is no unique way of establishing it, but the modes for setting up a Security Council differ. On the basis of a response to this issue, the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government indicate that the revision of the regulations in the work is an obligation to establish local security councils for local self-government units in the jurisdiction of the MUP, the Emergency Sector. With that in mind, I ask you to launch an initiative to amend and supplement the law to make local security advice mandatory to every local self-government, not as a form of recommendation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64854	Marjana Maraš has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64855	I thank the chairman. President-in-Office, honourable MPs, using the right of Article 287. Rules of Procedure, I'd like to draw attention to a serious social problem and ask the government about it. I remind you that the month of November is dedicated to fighting disease addictions that are increasingly present in all societies, including ours. Among addiction diseases, it's not just abuse of psychoactive substances, it's alcoholism, and in the last decade it's gambling. The prevalence of disease addiction is increasingly present among adolescents, as well as children in primary schools. Unfortunately, drugs are increasingly available, data indicate that children between the ages of 11 and 12 become addicts or are being recruited for drug trafficking. Unfortunately, in adolescence young people often use many chemical products such as glue, varnishes, sprays, gasoline, which contain evaporative psychoactive substances. About the tragic outcomes of drug abuse that occur in both new synthetic and life-threatening forms, unfortunately, we listen every day. It is a devastating fact that every six high school students aged 15 to 18 years try drugs, that over 90% of young people before their 18 years of age taste alcohol, that as much as 70% have experience of drunkenness, and according to the Institute of Batut 2017, 33,000 gamblers were registered in Serbia. Among young people, between 18 and 26 years of age, each quarter has a gambling problem. Drugs, alcoholism, and gambling destroy young lives, make addicts dysfunctional and unfortunately often end in death. Drug addicts, alcohol, and gambling not only harm themselves, their health and their lives, but also leave consequences for both the family and the social community. The spread of drug addiction, alcohol and gambling is affected by the media today by spreading and popularising unhealthy and easy life through various reality programs, including open advertising of alcohol and gambling. Here I think that we should also consider limiting the broadcast to reality the program for a certain time, because the whole day's broadcast and our children have the opportunity to take over patterns and patterns of behavior, and in this way I think that this is also the consequence of the phenomenon and violence in primary school, because they are looking, with reality programs available, taking over these patterns and as a consequence of us returning cases of violence among children. Starting with the invaluable damage that all disease addictions leave as a consequence, society is obliged to oppose these monsters even more organized and more responsibly. In 2014, the Serbian government adopted a strategy to prevent drug abuse for the period 2014. - 2021, which defines the condition and the envisaged active measures to combat these monsters of the modern world. However, we believe that a comprehensive integrated approach is necessary to prevent all disease addiction, therefore, and abuse of expensive and alcohol and gambling, as well as other forms of addiction. A multidisciplinary approach is also needed to cover all subjects from the impact on the prevention of disease addiction, starting with family, school, social, health services to police, judicial authorities that prevent and punish illegal production, drug trafficking, non-compliance with the Law on the sale of alcohol to minors and the spread of gambling among minors. It is also necessary to include those components of society that promote healthy lifestyles and education. When I had the chance to visit the United States, I didn't see anywhere in every corner of the casino next to the school, kindergarten. You've got the most bookies in the house, and then the drugstores and the bakerys come after them. My question to the government is – is it given the severity of addiction disease, especially among young people, plans to adopt an integral document, or strategy to prevent all disease-related addictions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64856	The word is Nemanja Radojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64857	I thank the president. Dear citizens, yesterday I had the opportunity and the honor to be at an event that brought together a lot of young people from Serbia. It was a meeting organised by the Belgrade Centre for Human Rights, the OSCE Office and the UN of Serbia, which discussed problems young people in Serbia face and face. It was very nice, but on the one hand and it's hard to listen to all these stories, especially people with disabilities, people who have a problem with poor vision, blindness, members of LGBT populations, but also other young people who don't have these problems, but who have consciousness and want to help their peers and friends. What's bad is that there are no mechanisms that could affect and how they can repair their position. One devastating fact is that only 12% of people in Serbia see this home as a place where their situation can be fixed. If we were to question the young, I think the situation would be even worse. It also defeats the fact that I believe that hiring in the civil sector can contribute more than in this place. I helped young people by educating them on topics from the economy, from philosophy, because philosophy really is the basis of everything and without philosophy there is no politics, there is no further progress. The position of the Modern Serbian Party is that all these problems must be solved by economic reforms, and we think that regulating the economic situation is a way for people to get awareness of how others live and that when they settle their lives, then they will be in a position to take care of the human rights of others and of the environmental situation in the country. My proposal to all the young MPs here in parliament is to educate one focus in which young MPs will sit, who will deal with these topics, who will receive young people, who will present their problems to them and thus try to find some ideas and ways to solve these things. I refer to the question of the Ministry of Youth and Sports, i.e. I transfer the question from yesterday's panel, which the young people have referred to, which is to deliver to me the three projects they have done in this mandate, which have really affected the position of young people in our society. Also, I urge all and Serbian citizens to join in a protest walk Sunday at 12 o'clock. The "Moms Are The Law" initiative is a protest walk called "I Raise A Voice for Moms", where we will try to put the Financial Support Act on the agenda of the family with children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64858	The word is Jelena Vujic Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64859	Thank you, President, dear colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, today's parliamentary issue, and as an MP in front of the JS parliamentary group, I will dedicate it to children with developmental difficulties. Since we are co-worker Mary and members of the Committee on Labour, we know very well what problems we have, and this is what parents with children with developmental difficulties are pointing to, but also their parents. The parliamentary question will be addressed to the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development, i.e. Enlightenment, as regards pedagogical assistants. Today, children with developmental difficulties and their involvement in the education system are often spoken of. Of course, the inclusive process has become an integral part of primary and secondary schools, but more and more kindergartens. So the inclusion begins with recognition and respect for the individual differences that exist among children. The number of children with developmental difficulties involved in kindergarten is still very low, and the reasons are numerous. First of all, the existing law is currently a legal obligation for these children to be included in kindergarten. There are other reasons, and the most common reasons are that most families do not meet the conditions for the inclusion of children in kindergarten because, usually one of the parents, mother or father are dedicated to additional care of children, but there is also, of course, the other side, which is that pedagogical workers or educators can not alone with a large number of children, including children with developmental difficulties, are dedicated to them in particular. A child with developmental difficulties, whether it's physical or mental difficulties, should meet all conditions for quality life and socialization, so when we talk about kindergartens it's an election matter, but primary education has become mandatory for children with developmental difficulties. On behalf of all parents who have submitted a request to the JS parliamentary group and on behalf of all my colleagues, I will ask the Ministry of Education a question, as regards pedagogical assistants, children with developmental difficulties who, in addition to their basic teaching and their teacher, need an additional teaching assistant. So, in many cases, an interesting commission suggests teaching assistants as a form of additional support in schools, which children can count on, but pedagogical assistants legally exist, very often only on paper. Given that pedagogical assistants, i.e. The service is from the field of education. It is under the responsibility of the Ministry of Education, and is often replaced, and only in cases where local self-governments have the funds in exchange for a personal assistant, this service belongs to the area of social protection and provides local self-government. The question I ask concerns the Ministry of Education. When there will be a new rule on pedagogical assistance, which will be precisely regulated by the conditions and criteria for the engagement of pedagogical assistants, because despite the schools they give, I say, consent to the teaching assistant, in addition to inter-resistance commissions that give consent that a teaching assistant is necessary, whether it is an assistant in the context of a school of several children, or an individual assistant teaching to a child. In practice, it is not for the time being that existing law is enforceable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64860	The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64861	I would like to join the question of a colleague who has now asked the competent Ministry of Education. The same question, because I also support it because it's very important. The problems are the same with us. My next question is about energy, about low voltage networks. It is a question of Serbia's distribution – whether in 2020 funds will be increased by competent regional and municipal distributions, to make and strengthen the low voltage network in rural parts of our municipalities. A large number of such municipalities are Svrlig and Bela Palanka, Gajin Han, Književec and many other such municipalities in Serbia where the low voltage network is in poor condition, where the voltage is lower than it is allowed and that this is a major problem for all of our residents in these municipalities, or our villages. The village needs the same, and we know that our agricultural producers are regular electric payers. The second question is, to the competent health ministry. In particular, since we are witnessing that in the coming period we will have greater needs because the demographic image is what it is in those municipalities that I'm talking about right now. It is necessary for more healthcare workers, both doctors and nurses because the territory is large, because our villages are broken down and the old population is people. The ambulators that once existed do not now work in a number of such municipalities, precisely because there are insufficient numbers of workers, because a number of doctors and nurses are retired and some are not accepted. My question is whether the competent health ministry will provide for the reception of workers, doctors, nurses and drivers in such municipalities as to continue to have the possibility for hospitals where doctors and nurses are, that at any time our agricultural producers and people living in our villages may have secured health care. That goes for a specialist thing, like internal medicine. Whether the regulation will change, that small environments have the right to these specialities that are important for these local self-governments, because a large number of people who are suffering from cardiovascular disease, heart disease, hypertension and everything else. Another question I'd like to ask is specifically about demographics. Whether it will be possible for more resources, at least 50% to be more isolated for undeveloped areas, areas where demographic image is very bad, that is, where there are a large number of old people and where it needs to be strengthened. Will it be possible to increase the financial opportunity by 50% in these municipalities? These municipalities are demographically endangered, devastated and undeveloped. To increase these municipalities by 50% financial assistance to our mothers, or future mothers and children, and 70% to be for children who are born there, unlike so far, while for everything the same. One more question, it's about the Ministry of Finance. Since we adopted the budget, we have now and very quickly with today's adoption of tax-relieving financial laws, whether there will be an opportunity for the competent finance ministry through tax policy to provide conditions to stimulate financial assistance for those economic operators that will open their businesses, their plants in underdeveloped, devasted municipalities. It is the fourth group of underdevelopment, that in these municipalities, these economic operators are stimulated by aid through the release for mandatory taxes, contributions, for hiring employers on the burden of the employer, to be freed by 50%, or 70%, and that difference to make the salary higher for workers. It was an incentive for investors to come to our municipalities and that would be favourable and necessary for the devastated municipalities. As an MP, I have submitted amendments to this matter. One more thing, since we know that on 13 June 2019, on the proposal of the competent minister of Krkobibic, in charge of regional development, a national team was formed for the rescue of the village, where our team was part of the team, and our President Vukic, who said that the village was the most important thing for our Serbia, I am interested in whether the village rescue team will discuss this, because I think this is also necessary for the lives of all who live in the southeast and throughout Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64862	Thank you. The word is Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64863	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before we move on to the parliamentary issue, I would like to inform the public that today is the 33nd day that MPs of the opposition do not come to work for which they receive their salary neatly. I am glad that some media have been interested in this topic, which I often potential here in the National Assembly, because it is important that citizens know how much their unhappiness costs and what their relationship to the function they perform is, according to the National Assembly, and also to the citizens of Serbia. I have two parliamentary questions. The first parliamentary issue was addressed to the interior ministry, with regard to the masculine beating of members of the Belgrade City Council and SNS municipal committee secretary in Zemun, Gavril Kovacevic, who was brutally beaten by baseball bats two days ago outside his house, in front of a house where he lives with his family. Namely, did the police carry out all the necessary actions, wouldn't it be determined who the perpetrators of this disgusting act are and whether there are facts that the attack, or at least the indications, that the attack was politically motivated? Why am I asking this? Because it's a person who doesn't have any enemies, who isn't in conflict with anyone, and especially a person who isn't connected to any affair. At the same time, it is a person who is very exposed as a city administration official in Belgrade and one of the more prominent SNS activists in Zemun. If we have all this in mind, I openly suspect that the motive for this savage attack is purely political, especially if we have in mind the atmosphere in society, generated by members of the Alliance for Serbia, the atmosphere of everyday calls for violence and physical reckoning with everyone who doesn't think like them. So, we have an atmosphere where for months, we have many threats to violence and promises to be beaten, slapped, cut to the head, run across the streets, wait in front of buildings, five bullets in the back, and all the other monstrous threats that we who belong to SNS have been facing every day for months. Is this event really the culmination of all these threats and calls for the persecution of political insolents, who come from the kitchen of Dragan Djilas, Bosko Obradovic, Vuk Jeremic, Bastic and all the others in the Alliance for Serbia? We remember Jova Bakic, who said he'd be chasing us in the streets. We remember how they chased Goran Vesic in the city centre, with the intention of lynching him after the book was promoted. We remember the threat of slapping SNS officials, that each of them will find their own adversaries to be slapped. So now I'm asking, has anyone from the Alliance for Serbia finally found his constituency in the form of Gavril Kovacevic? We have not forgotten the statement of that Sinisha Kovacevic, vice president of the party of Gilas, who said: I will fight. Here's what he said, completely Hamletski, be it or not be, I solved that dilemma, I'm gonna beat it. And there is no longer any doubt, nor can there be any. We should fight, in every way, in every way, I repeat, in every way. Eh, how sad it is to be Kovacevic. But not Dušan, only Sinisha. What does this mean? Does this mean that anyone who listens to this needs to choose someone who seems to be an adequate person to deal physically with him? Right away in the beginning to be clear, none of us in the SNS are afraid of any of them. We know they're just cowards. They're only strong when they're in the crowd. My second question is because of this, the rise in aggression and hate speech and the creation of an atmosphere of impatience and threats to physical violence, which is on the rise these days. The culmination of this is the cover of the NIN since yesterday. The question is addressed to all news associations, and especially to the press council, that famous press council that always finds fit to criticise some headlines and texts in the printed media, and so far we haven't received a conviction of the front page, a monstrous, scandalous, shameful NIN front page, if the camera can zoom in - so, will they respond and finally condemn, very clearly condemn, so do not cover with some unmistakable statements in the sense that they don't have a clear front page, to ask for an additional explanation from the editorship, etc? We're looking for a clear condemnation of this shameful and scandalous NIN front page. I'm asking a question - what's the message for a photo like this? Is this a direct call to the murder of the President of the Republic? Is this the wish of killing the President of the Republic? Because we know what kind of brains we're dealing with. We know we're dealing with people who were looking forward to it when Vukic ended up at VMA, even wishing for a fatal outcome. At the very end, the chairman, I'd like to tell everyone not to fall for the lie about how NIN pulled, for God's sake, the front page. He didn't pull anything NIN, here's today's front page, this is today's number of NINs, on the front page is a photo of Alexander Vukic pointed at by a weapon, a machine gun.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64864	I thank and confirm that my copy of the NIN also has this scandalous photograph. Now we move to establishing the agenda of this session. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before deciding, we decide on proposals for putting on the agenda of the act by emergency procedure, supplementing the agenda and merger. The government has proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the draft law confirming the Agreement on Co-operation between the Republic of Serbia and Eurojust. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one voted and no proposal was accepted. They're supplementing the agenda. National MP Nemanja Sarovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point - a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to determine the facts regarding the murder and the political background of the murder of Zoran Djindjic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Finalizing vote: for - one MP. National MP Nemanja Sarovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling board to determine the facts and circumstances regarding pressures on state authorities and violations of the law during elections for MPs in the National Assembly held in 2016. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. Ambassador Bozidar Delic suggested that the agenda be completed with a point – a bill on the rights of fighters and families of dead and missing fighters. Is Bozidar Delic there? I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for -11, against – no one, abstentioned – one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Ms Verica Radeta suggested that the session agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a Law amending the Family Law. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64865	Thank you. These days there's been some information in the media that's quite discouraging. The Statistics Institute says that in the last three years in Serbia more than 5,700 children have been taken from biological parents and given to some centres or are probably given some for adoption, under the care of the most. That really should concern everyone in Serbia. It's not a small number, it's about children, living people who survive trauma because they're separated from their parents. The question, for what reasons, and the question that we want to draw attention to through the proposal and the initiation. The amendment to Family Law is precisely to see how many children are taken away from biological parents because parents do not have the means to support their children. It's one thing where there are really reasons to establish undeniable that someone is not capable of being a parent, but if they are people who understand what parenting is, who love their children, who love children, who want all the best for their children, but with a scheme of circumstances they are unable to provide them with normal living conditions. You know, in Serbia it's very difficult for someone who's poor to build a decent roof over their heads, to school children, to buy children clothes, books, etc. That's why we think that through the amendment of this law we need to open up a serious debate and not allow any child to be taken from parents, biological parents, just because they're poor. We keep talking – for one child who is given to other families to protect and protect him, these families get 50,000 dinars a month, and if a family whose child is or if there are more children for each of them to get 50,000 dinars, they could live excellently, get used to extremely modest conditions, so to speak of no conditions, they would also be able to cope with that amount of money. That's what we insist on. It's not good, except really in extreme need, when it's entirely justified, to separate children from their biological parents, to separate their own brothers and sisters, and to make it just because people are poor, it's unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64866	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I am concluding the vote: for - 10 MPs. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Vjerica Radeta suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64867	If there is something urgent today in the National Assembly, then this amendment to the Law on the selection of Members of Parliament, which we have been proposing for more than a year. Many problems in the National Assembly have caused the fact that the Constitutional Court has made an unconstitutional decision that, imagine, from the Law on the Selection of MPs, the Constitutional Court has deleted the provision of the Constitution. That's outrageous, but good. Any, past, it's up to us to solve this problem. And today we have problems with I don't know how many parliamentary groups here, with each day a new parliamentary group, with changes in the composition of parliamentary groups. Here, now, let's say, you have decided, by order of those from Europe who come to you, to finally respect the Law on selecting Members of the People's Parliament and to elect the Supervisory Board in the Assembly. The assembly elects five members of the Supervisory Board and they are selected in proportion to the number of MPs in the parliamentary groups. I would like to see this expert who is able to calculate today to be in this National Assembly that has changed, increased, I don't know how many, the number of parliamentary groups from the formation of this call to the day of today, and there will probably still be such changes. So, we very specifically ask you to think carefully, that if you do not want to accept the SRS proposal, get the Government of the Republic of Serbia to be their proposal, to implement this amendment to the law, only by making a provision that says that the MP is free to make his mandate available to the party whose lists he has been elected to the National Assembly. Just that, that change would completely change the state of parliament, completely change the public's attitude towards the National Assembly, change the attitude of the MPs of that future call, because, let's say, it's too late to apply it to this call, but for a future call, something like that has to be prepared, because it will be, believe me, problems. You will see what will happen both in the election campaign and when the session is established and on election day. You know, it's kind of like that in the fact that someone thinks democracy exists today in Serbia, that it's just becoming unsustainable. We just want to get what we can fix with the law, get it sorted out. If we cannot legally edit the NIN front page, there may be an organ that will, or be, exist, but may be able to deal with the front page. But let's solve what we can solve here. I believe there is no MP here, especially lawyers, who don't think at this point that our proposal is really only possible. Here, once again, if you don't want to follow our proposal, let the government propose, and let's discuss and adopt that amendment to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64868	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I am concluding the vote: for - 10 MPs. National MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – the draft law on placing out of force of the Labour Act. Does he want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I am concluding the vote - no one voted in favour of this proposal. National MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic proposed that the session agenda be complemented by the points – Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on Citizenship of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64869	Mrs Gojkovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, has been pursuing and terror of Serbs for more than 15 years by the mafia government of Milo Djukanovic in Montenegro. This government, even when Vucic was prime minister, and now Ana Brnabic has not raised the issue institutionally, to try to talk about allowing Serbs from Montenegro, allowing them the Constitution of our country and this law whose amendment we are asking them to gain Serbian citizenship. Things got a lot worse. Not only are they persecuting all Serbs who learn that they have received Serbian citizenship, although they have long waited, are being kicked out of work, harassing members of their families, but the separatist regime of Milo Djukanovic, anti-Serbian, in all its hysteria now faces the property of the Serbian Orthodox Church. They expelled Serbian language and a letter from schools, changed the lecturer for children, so Serbian children in Montenegro, and nearly half of them are declared to belong to the Serb people, cannot learn anything about Alexa Chantic, Jovanovic Jovanovic Zmaj, Desanka Maksimovic, Branko Radcevic. They all threw it out of the book, out of the textbook, and they introduced some dear writers. To make the absurd even bigger, ladies and gentlemen, the anti-Serbian regime allows everyone in Montenegro to take dual citizenship, if it comes to Albania, Croatia, Thailand, too, can any other country, but will not allow them to become citizens of the Republic of Serbia if they have the citizenship of Montenegro. For what? Because it would be possible for Serbia's Serbian citizenship from Montenegro to show it in such a way that they connect with their mother and would immediately be at risk of a project of course and of their country which is what it is and which serves NATO's pact and Western forces, as well as of course the Shiptars, but all against Serbs. That is why it is necessary for you to accept this amendment, to speed up the possibility that all those who wish to gain the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, many of them, therefore, do not want to stay and live with their families in Montenegro, get it within six months. Why six months? Six months is quite enough for the competent services to carry out checks upon the submission of the documentation of the Ministry of Serbia's MUP and, if all is well, if there is confidence in the birth certificate and all other documents and documents that are properly brought in, with a valid deadline, that the state of Serbia is responding within six months.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64870	Thank you. You're out of time. I'm putting the motion to a vote. Finalising vote: for – 10. MP Ruzica Nikolic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point - Proposal for a law amending the Law on the Transplanting of Human Authorities. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I'm closing the vote. No one voted. Ambassador Filip Stojanovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point - the draft law supplementing the Law on Border Control. Filip Stojanović has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64871	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted a bill on amendments to the Law on Border Control and I demand that it be included in today's session agenda. All know that the most important characteristics of each country are its internationally recognised borders that separate it from other countries, or its neighbours. The state of Serbia has defined internationally recognised borders towards its neighbours. The Serbian state's borders towards its southern neighbour, i.e. towards Albania, were defined by UN Security Council Resolution 1244. Unfortunately, Serbia is one of the few countries that has violently kidnapped part of the territory by 19 NATO states, as well as some other states that want to legalise the state of occupation and that the borders of the AP of Kosovo and Metohija, according to the rest of Serbia, are declared international borders. We do not blame the current regime for the situation in which Kosovo and Metohija were found, but we blame it for something else. Namely, the leading authorities of the Republic of Serbia must constantly insist on Resolution 1244, which guarantees the integrity of the state territory of the Republic of Serbia. But so far, we have not seen this regime insist on Resolution 1244 and I find that inadmissible. I remind you that according to Resolution 1244, Serbia has the right to deploy 1,000 members of its security forces at the border towards Albania. I will always ask all regimes to insist on respecting Resolution 1244. This resolution guarantees the integrity of the territory of the Republic of Serbia and has no talk of any division or demarcation, the position of all Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija. This team, before the international circumstances slowly change to our advantage and I am convinced that we will not wait long for a day when Kosovo and Metohija will be re-integrated with the rest of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, there should be no compromise on state territory, while other topics can be discussed with Albanians. The regime must be uncompromising on this issue by not agreeing to any negotiations or agreements on this subject. That's why we have the Constitution of Serbia, we have Resolution 1244 and we have Russia and China with us. I believe that the adoption of this law that I have proposed will create clear assumptions and necessity as soon as possible to put the occupied part of our territory under our full control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64872	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for - eight MPs. The proposal was not accepted. MP Tomislav LJubenovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point -- a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on financial support for the family with children. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote. No one voted. Ambassador Dubravko Bojic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - draft law supplementing the Law on psychoactive controlled substances. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64873	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've already said that it's a good thing that one of these important topics is repeated, given the importance and topical issues it deals with, in order to shed light on this phenomenon of drugs with several different aspects. The fight against drugs is a struggle for health, and health is the trademark of every society, the greatest privilege and achievement of every individual. My discussion today in a large one defined the event two days ago when it was on agricultural good, I will not name it near Old Paz, police discovered an illegal marijuana production laboratory, in artificial conditions and seized 649.4 kilograms of dried marijuana and 65.581 stems of this intoxicated drug in a raw state of 3,954 kilograms. I have to point out here that there are few examples of family cultivation of these plants where the whole family is involved in the cultivation of these plants. There are no rare examples that children or children without the knowledge of parents deal with this business, as well as examples of parents without the knowledge of children dealing with the cultivation of these plants, but this is a rare example that collectively the entire company, the director, eight arrested and another who is on the run, is organized by the production of marijuana. Experts say you start marijuana, you end up with heroin. Marijuana introduces paranoia, causes mental addiction. It's a path to mental illness. Ladies and gentlemen, one logical question is that, in view of such successes in the fight, large amounts of drugs are seized, so that they do not reflect on the Serbian drug market, so that there is no shortage of drugs or at the very end of the increase in its price. The answer to this question is in the great oasis of growing plants from houses, apartments, cottages, auxiliary facilities, terrace, basement, garage, garden, fields, fields, meadows, forests. Experts say these plants are now grown as an average vegetable culture, and all those involved in the cultivation of these plants own a drug-saving laboratory. These laboratories today say there are as many cauldrons in Serbia as there are for roasting brandy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64874	Thank you. Finalising vote: for – 11 MPs. The proposal was not accepted. National MP Zoran Despotovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - a bill on amendments to the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development. Does anyone want a word? (Da-)
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64875	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, who knows what time the SRS parliamentary group has submitted a proposal to amend and supplement laws that would solve a lot and give positive effects both in agriculture and in the case of psychoactive substances, rights of fighters and families of dead and missing fighters, the Law on selecting Members of the People's Parliament, as well as a bill on putting aside the law on enforcement and security and many other proposals for which the assembly majority does not want to accept because it simply ignores them. When it comes to agriculture and rural development, we have proposed a better solution than the existing one for the development of this branch of economy. We want the agricultural producer to reduce the cost of production and to improve its market position, and unfortunately where for decades every government has been saying that agriculture is our development chance, but with this relationship nothing seems to improve the position of our agricultural producer. Through larger subsidies, and larger investments, i.e. more based on the rural part of Serbia that still has few younger populations, which would be stimulated and remain in those environments and resolve its existence to feed their family. The reason for the adoption of this law is that the government, i.e. the resolution ministries, would increase money for both milk and plant production. So we suggested that the lower limit for milk per quarter to achieve the premium be reduced, especially where conditions are difficult and production to the minimum. In this case, the lower limit of the milk premium per quarter, instead of the current 1500, is reduced to 1000 litres, so that those with difficult production conditions can exercise the right to a premium. Then we suggested that the milk premium be increased from 7 dinars to 10 dinars, while for plant production the existing solution per hectare is currently at a maximum of 6,000, we suggested that it be at least 9,000 dinars. This would show, if you accepted these proposals, that at least you cared little about rural Serbia and its agricultural producer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64876	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for - eight MPs. No proposal accepted. Ambassador Sreto Peric suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a bill to put aside the law on enforcement and security. Does MP Sreto Peric want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64877	The position of the SRS is that each debtor fulfils its obligations, no matter what they are, what value and importance they have for him. In reality, however, a debtor may come into a situation where he or she finds it difficult to fulfill his obligations. The demand is the right to exercise the right in case the debtor does not consent voluntarily to carry out that obligation, and it is done at the court. Serbia is one of the few states that has decided to entrust this part of the right to the para-state or para-dural authorities. Since 2011, Serbian citizens have had a problem with such a law, changes and additions followed, and a new law, so again this year, changes and additions, however, did not do any good to the citizens of Serbia. On the contrary, the situation remains the same, even though the ethical code of conduct of public enforcement was brought in 2016, he did not give any more serious results when it comes to the protection of debtors. In order for you to understand the SRS is not only trying to protect debtors, our interest and goal is as serious political parties, state-owned parties, to protect both creditors and debtors, and we believe that it is only possible through competent courts. On one occasion, Justice Minister Mrs Nela Kuburovic said, but she said in 2018, 2019, that it was a problem in 2011 when it came to various executions, and then the state had to intervene in such a way as to pass such a law on enforcement and security. Then he boasts about some financial results and effects, so that's not good. Now we've got one court dispute that's been searching for more than a decade. I think that beyond the borders of the Serbian state, the famous Index affair is not resolved. Is it going to occur to any minister in the next period to start an organ, so that he can be called now I don't know... to establish an organ that will take over a number of court cases and try to solve them more efficiently and faster than our courts do. We accept the fact that courts aren't always up-to-date, but that's what we need to work on. This should lead to order, not by taking them away, apart from their jurisdiction what both the Constitution and the law should be exclusively in the jurisdiction of the courts and trust someone who, I would say, has no sense anymore, loses it. You know, if someone makes an enormous amount of money and if it's a chance to make 2.1m euros as an executioner in a year or two, he doesn't have a sense of reality, he doesn't have a reality. He's getting imaginary, I guess the only thing that matters to him is the money.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64878	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for - eight MPs. National MP Nikola Savic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on textbooks. Does MP Nikola Savic want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64879	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have tabled a proposal to supplement this Assembly's agenda with the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on textbooks. The textbooks are a very important area, where our youngest population first encounters something serious and all throughout their education. In this area, however, today there is literally chaos where textbooks are written each, betraying each and every one of them. Here, first of all, I mean those textbooks that refer to national history, national culture, national literacy and everything else. Therefore, it is no wonder that some of us neighbouring countries or countries of the former Yugoslavia are taking on cultural and historical monuments, our literary epics and others. For example, who is thinking today about what the state of Albania has long considered to be the Shkodar on the Colour of their construction, and even that of our famous folk song "The Walling of the Shkodra on the Bojana", they used to sing. Of course, the main heroes have been given some Albanian names and their students have long since learned that it is an Albanian national epic, an Albanian national song, so young Gojkovica, is no longer a young Gojkovica, but is called Sapira or I don't know how, and here in this country no one takes care of it. We also have a case recently, where a famous Serbian church in KIM, Novi Brdo, has already highlighted Albania's flag, and Kosovo Albanians have accepted it as their cultural and historical heritage. There's a lot of examples like this. All of us, for example, watch when we have a chance at the night of "The puzzle" on "RTS1", but from the time and from the moment Milka Canic died, we can notice that there we can meet everything and everything, absolutely amazing facts, things that have nothing to do with logic and some elemental literacy. This is due to the fact that textbooks are not written properly, and as I said, what everyone writes, betrays everyone and everyone makes their choice. This is not surprising if we know that the monopoly on the textbook market in our country has, above all, Slovenian, Croatian and German companies, so no wonder...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64880	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: nine MPs voted for it. National MP Nikola Savic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point -- a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on road safety. Does MP Nikola Savic want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64881	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've asked for the agenda of this session to be complemented by a point relating to amendments and amendments to the Road Safety Act. If this previous Law on textbooks that I have explained from another area, and if it may take a little bit more to work, it takes more time, more state strategies, more people to include, more thinking, the Traffic Safety Act on the Roads is one routine thing where only one, or two provisions, need to be changed in one member of the law. It is about regulating traffic at intersections, where literally interpreting the letter of the law cannot clearly determine who is the vinic of any accident or traffic accident at these intersections. No matter what this government boasts, let's also say with the right to do many highways and to continue to do so, however, the bill does not apply to highways, because there are no traffic lights, there are no intersections, but this is one trivial thing where the Ministry of Traffic Affairs should take this into account and change one, or two provisions in one member of this law, so that there is no dilemma about who is guilty of a car accident. Traffic experts treat this issue in one way, law experts treat it in another way, and when it comes to the court, disputes become more difficult in time. So, this is one thing that doesn't need any money, no particular strain, just the good will of the Ministry of Traffic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64882	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote: for -9. National MP Miroslav Stankovic Đuričić suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Biomedical Aided Insemination. The word has a folk MP, Miroslava Stankovic Đuričić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64883	Thank you. On behalf of the SRS, I submitted a draft law amending and supplementing the Biomedical Aided Insemination Act. We are witnessing extremely poor demographic images of the Republic of Serbia and every year the Republic of Serbia loses 35 to 38 thousand inhabitants and, if this continues, in forty years we will have three million inhabitants less than today. If we add everything to the fact that more than 300,000 couples have infertility problems, we come to the conclusion that the Biomedical Aided Insemination Act is extremely important and that the birth problem is one of the burning problems of the Republic of Serbia. Those who go through this battle know how difficult it is to collect all the necessary documentation to get to the commission to enter the process itself. As someone who went through this process alone, I can say that couples are often misunderstood and feel alone and helpless. It should achieve that diagnostics are simple, fast and accessible, which is absolutely not the case right now. It is necessary to abolish the age line and leave it to the commission to assess the individual reproductive potential. It should be possible for every woman who meets medical conditions to try to be realized as a mother. Also, the law should regulate the issue of male infertility, i.e. to ensure that men are treated for the cost of the Republic Health Insurance Fund. Then increase the number of funded attempts of biomedically assisted fertilisation by the Republic Health Insurance Fund, as well as enable the process of frozen material to couples who have a problem with male infertility, as well as couples who have frozen healthy material before entering the malignancy treatment process. Also, to enable the financing of the costs of the Republic Health Insurance Fund for freezing and freezing materials. To enable the process and couples that have already been accomplished as parents either by natural means or by means of out-of-body fertilization. Why would these couples be sentenced to one child if they wanted more children, and if the only way to get them back as parents is to become biomedically assisted insemination, and there are few such couples? This right is also guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, a member of 63, who says everyone has the right to freely decide on the birth of children and that the Republic of Serbia encourages parents to decide to give birth and help them do so. This problem is very complex and sensitive and should be thoroughly approached and solved. I suggest you support this amendment to the law because of an alarming demographic picture of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64884	I'm putting this motion to the vote. Finalizing vote: for -9. National MP Aleksandar Seselj suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point - the draft law on executive procedure and security. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64885	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we, with the public record, broke up in 1945. It is pointless for us to appeal to some European democratic principles and to introduce public records to the harm of our citizens. Public notebooks are major pests, which have been introduced into the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. What's characteristic of public notebooks? This is that their tariffs are threefold higher than those of the tariffs and fees that were incurred and charged by the court in the ordinary procedure. Therefore, if you have a notary who earned 80 million in a Belgrade municipality in a year, then this issue must be resolved in a different way. Citizens were faster and easier to obtain confirmation of a court order. When a citizen had to verify a transport contract or some other legal job to do it, he could have done it within an hour of the longest. Now a citizen can't do it in front of a public notary for days, because a public notary is now setting you up for an overture like when you go to surgery with a doctor, so now choose what you do. Public notebooks did not justify the objective for which they were actually established and incorporated into the legal order. Therefore, the SRS proposes that public notebooks be abolished. It's a small group of people that the former regime has chosen, but these are people who are enormously rich at the expense of our citizens, so it doesn't matter if you're confirming a contract in front of a court that costs maybe 30 or 40 grand the most, or you're going to be at the notebook to verify the contract and all those stores that he listed according to his specifications to be even a few hundred thousand dinars. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the SRS is proposing that the public notebooks be abolished and that we return to the regular state before our courts.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64886	I'm putting this motion to the vote. Finalising vote: for – 11. National MP Petar Jojic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – draft law amending and supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure. The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64887	Madam President of the National Assembly, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is a very important matter in the area of criminal law that is not well arranged in the Republic of Serbia. Namely, many provisions of the Code on Criminal Procedure and Criminal Code are not in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, nor with the parallel law of modern European and other countries. On behalf of the SRS, I have proposed to amend and supplement the Code of Criminal Procedure and, above all, Article 379(1), which is to be amended and to be read – if the main investigation does not occur as a prosecutor or a private prosecutor, or their attorney, who has been duly called and who has not been justified, the President will order the President to order the injured as a prosecutor, a private prosecutor or his attorney to justify the absence in the next eight days under the threat of termination of the proceedings. After Article 2, I suggested adding pages 3 and 4. "If damaged in this case as a prosecutor, a private prosecutor or their attorney, within the time limit left, justify the absence of a major search within the meaning of Article 2, the president will continue the procedure in accordance with the provisions of the law." I suggested the third position: "If the damaged as a prosecutor, a private prosecutor, or their authority, do not justify the absence after the deadline, the president will cancel the procedure by way of a solution." Ladies and gentlemen, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia has standardized the equality of parties in the process. However, there is no equality here unless a public prosecutor comes to the main search. The D.A. is privileged to you. He may not come to the main search, so the larger court will postpone the main search and schedule for another day. But if the damaged and as a private prosecutor doesn't come, then the procedure is suspended. This bill, ladies and gentlemen, improves, above all, this norm in the Code of Criminal Procedure and parties in the procedure, as damaged, as the private prosecutor, is equated, such as jurisdiction and the rights and obligations of public prosecutors.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64888	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Finalising vote: for - nine MPs. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Petar Jojic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Code. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64889	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, I have proposed to amend and supplement the Criminal Code, in Article 19, where I have suggested that it be changed and that it should be said - it is necessary that the defence that is necessary to do it of itself or of another, of its good or good others rejects the simultaneous counter-attack. I would suggest that the smaller and the smaller – the perpetrator who has exceeded the limits of the necessary defences will be fined. After Article 3 I suggest adding a new position that is read – if the unsub exceeds the limits of the necessary defence due to intense irritation or fears caused by the attack, he will be free of criminal prosecution. Ladies and gentlemen, we are witnesses in the Republic of Serbia that every year thousands of crimes are being robbed, murder, rape, robbery, we are aware of everything our citizens experience and survive, and that the law does not regulate that citizen to have the right to self-defense, to protect himself, his life, his own safety, his property, and thus to be protected in accordance with the Constitution. This issue has been resolved in detail in parallel law, both continental and European. Therefore, there is an urgent need here for the Criminal Code to finally regulate the necessary defence, because every man has the right to the necessary defence. We had a case in Žarkov, when a criminal broke through the bathroom window, entered the kitchen, the family had breakfast in the kitchen, the criminal took the knife and attacked the boss, and then, on that occasion, he used the knife and wounded him, and he ran out of the bathroom window and ended up in the end, because he died in the hospital. But this man, who bowed, who defended himself, and his possessions, and his citizens, was exposed to years of prosecution and trial. Therefore, I find it necessary here to make changes and supplement the Criminal Code.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64890	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for - seven MPs. No proposal accepted. National MP Miladin Ševarlic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a declaration on genetically modified organisms and products from GMOs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64891	Thank you. In the period from January 2012 to December 2016, we organised the "Serbia without GMOs" campaign in Serbia. The result of this campaign is unique in Europe. More than 7,000 council members in 136 municipalities and cities unanimously declared themselves to the Declaration against Imports, Breeding, Processing and Transport of GMOs and products from GMOs. To this day, no congregation of the city or municipality has annulled that declaration. On this basis, as a non-partisan MP in 2017, I submitted this proposal for a roof declaration, which is exactly the same text. There's only one difference. The National Assembly undertakes that, before considering amendments and additions to existing laws in the context of GMOs or the adoption of a new national referendum, citizens will be declared because the basic human right is, firstly, to have something to eat and secondly, to decide what they will eat. Why doesn't the National Assembly want that? I don't get it. Here, this is the text of the amended Article 5. Food safety laws. The law reads – genetically modified food and genetically modified food for animals, food and food for animals gets from GMOs. Animals are marked as a special subset of users, and humans are not marked. Why are we ashamed to state that people are also users of genetically modified food under the provisions of Article 5 of the Amendment and the addition of the Food Safety Act adopted by this National Assembly? This is also completely inappropriate in Serbian, as confirmed at the SANU Language Institute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64892	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Finalising vote: for - three MPs. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – draft law supplementing the Law on the selection of MPs. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a law on planning and arrangement of space and settlements. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the point – a motion for a resolution of the National Assembly on the recognition and condemnation of genocide against Armenians committed in the Ottoman Empire between 1915 and 1922. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Higher Education. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to identify the facts and circumstances that led to the illegal withdrawal of the work of the Shareholder Insurance Company "Such Insurance", Kragujevac. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a law supplementing the Government Act. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – draft law amending the Law on the financing of political activities. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic proposed that the agenda be completed by the meeting – Proposal for a law supplementing the Act on the election of the President of the Republic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – draft law supplementing the Law on the selection of MPs. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a Law amending the Labour Act. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. National MP Ana Karadzic suggested that the session agenda be complemented -- a proposal for a decision on the education of the commission to investigate and determine the number of victims of NATO's 1999 aggression pact. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64893	Thank you. Honored presidents, respected MPs, respected Serbian citizens, have been 20 years since NATO's aggression against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, 20 years since the fact that the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia was bombed without a UN Security Council decision and against international law. This way, the Socialist Movement Group submits a proposal to supplement the agenda to form a commission that will determine the exact number of victims of NATO aggression by name and last name. We today have a government headed by Serbia that remembers its victims, honoring the victims of all wars, starting with the marking of Vidovdan, through the First Serbian Uprising of the 1804th, then the Second World War, the breakthrough of the Sremski front and the Serbs who were killed and banished in '95. The government of the Republic of Serbia marks over 80 anniversarys each year and honors all the victims. It also marks the Day of Remembrance of the victims of NATO aggression, but we don't have a final death toll and we don't have their names and names. We owe it to the victims' families. We owe it to our children and owe it to our country. Our people suffered multiple injuries from NATO aggressors - Republika Srpska was bombed in 1995, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. Unfortunately, in 2000, some whose data is not significant came to power, so NATO often called aggression a NATO humanitarian intervention or action. They destroyed our army, destroyed our guns, destroyed our hoodies, destroyed our tanks. The former government, and the current opposition didn't remember to honor the dead in NATO bombing, to determine who these children are, who these mothers, brothers, sisters, who these soldiers were heroes who were killed by NATO criminals. It did not try to establish this, but it better released more than 200 Albanian terrorists from prison and shamelessly accused the Republic of Serbia of being a genocide state. Commission Implementing Regulation The opposition's assembly was tabled with a proposal on genocide in Srebrenica. Serbia has never been and will never be a genocide state. While they were paid to destroy and destroy the state, in the same Serbia, they never identified the victims of NATO aggression, where more than 2,000 civilians were killed and more than 6,000 were wounded, of which 2,700 children. We don't know the final list, and we don't know all the names, but we ask the MPs today to support the proposal to form this commission, to investigate and determine the exact number of NATO bombing victims... (President: finish your sentence.) )......................................................................................................... to punish at least in a way this crime against peace that has not been punished for 20 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64894	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Finalising vote: for – 13 MPs. National MP Bojan Torbica proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Judges. Do you want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64895	Thank you. Violent courts were introduced into the legislative system of the Republic of Serbia on January 1st 2010. Judges of criminal courts judge cases in the field of combating corruption, customs, the budgetary system, foreign exchange, access to information of public importance, broadcasting, traffic of explosive matter, military matter, fire protection, security of traffic, public order and peace, violations of the DRI authority and many other areas. The diversity of the case and the number of regulations to be applied cannot be compared to any other matter in other courts, which gives them special weight. Since the work uses around 270 laws and about 800 regulations, which requires judges to have special skills in applying and monitoring and interpreting legal and sublegal regulations. The fact that the expertise and competence to perform a judicial function, which must be met in the selection of a judicial function, is identical with the conditions that other judges must fulfil, and the evaluation and evaluation is identical with the evaluation of other judges under the Rules on criteria, criteria and procedure for the evaluation of the work of judges and presidents. We are in a situation where domestic law gives judges of criminal courts the status of judges with all obligations, but not with all rights. Except for the earnings of the criminal judges, all other categories of employees in the criminal courts have the same method of calculating profits with their colleagues. Something else, not less important, only the Belgrade Criminal Court, the previous year, in 2018, by collecting fines into the Republic of Serbia's budget, has brought in a billion and 222 million dinars. In the same period, for the earnings of judges and judicial staff with contributions, three times less funds were paid or, more specifically, 465 million dinars. They really are not a burden of this budget and unlike some others, they are threefold justifying their wages. That is why we have submitted this motion to amend the law in order once and for all to correct the decade of injustice against judges in criminal courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64896	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for - four, against—no one, the abstentioned, has, of the total of 143 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Aleksandar Stevanović, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Order and Peace, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 October 2018. Does MP Aleksandar Stevanovic want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64897	Dear Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, the Modern Serbian Party is proposing one minor amendment to the Law on Public Order and Peace in order to remove one deep injustice against a marginal part of our society. In fact, according to our current law, people who are engaged in prostitution can trespass against that profession. The choice of many is not clearly understood, it is clear, many cannot imagine themselves, but basically everyone has the right to do with his body whatever he wants, and the consequences of this interpretation, when it can be misrepresented because such services are provided, are that many prostitutes are more afraid of the police than of their customers. Also, this law can place many of them in a very unsustainable position, if they are single mothers, which is very often the case, especially with those who work on the margins of the profession, and that because of the penalties they pay they come into a position that they cannot support their children, or that they are taken away from them. Our proposal is to retain all the provisions concerning the criminalisation and organisation of prostitution, but that persons who certainly live in a difficult position in our society are not being further punished because they are engaged in the profession of prostitution. To believe that this profession will disappear is, of course, one of the most naive that exists in any society. She's extremely naive, and they don't call her the oldest craft in the world in vain. Also, believing that punishments will achieve something is quite counterproductive and essentially punishes those who may be the greatest victims of their own choices. Once again, we call for amendments to the Law on Public Order and for prostitutes not to be fined for their profession. All other things are quite fine for us to punish both users and those who organise this business, macros also, to punish even more severely those who organise juvenile prostitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64898	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – two, against—no one, the abstentioned, has, of the total of 144 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Aleksandar Stevanović, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – the Bill on the Completion of the Criminal Code, submitted to the National Assembly by the MPs Aleksandar Stevanović and Sasa Radulovic on 8 November 2017. Here you go, Mr. Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64899	We've just watched a lot in the media visit to a specific farm, in fact, it's a greenhouse, and it's quite a modern greenhouse -- it's made excellent contributions, and on this side we're not in this amendment to the Criminal Procedure Act, saying that at this point we need to discuss the legalization of this business, although we think we need to have a public debate, that it's very clear and respected the experiences of countries, such as Portugal, Iceland, many countries, many federal states in the United States. But what we think is that it's completely insane that someone, who at some point consumed marijuana, could get a criminal record and get a prison sentence. Everyone has the right to choose their own lifestyle, if she's a full-aged adult and to do whatever she wants with her body. As everyone in Serbia has the right to be an alcoholic, to carry out any vice, until he threatens other people, we see no reason for anyone to consume easy marijuana drugs, to be prosecuted, to put him on a certain poor future because of a criminal record. That a young person who consumed marijuana at the age of 18 or 19 might be in a position not to be able to work in many positions in the state administration. We think it's deeply wrong and we think it should put a legal limit on what it is to own easy drugs for personal use. We believe that this is the way to separate the question of lifestyle from the question of selling easy drugs, and we think that we need to avoid the stigmatization and turning into criminals at that point of several hundred thousand, if not numbers that are closer to a million people. If you want to have such a law, this law is deeply cynical of the reality that exists in Serbia. With this one more time, we believe that there should be a minimum amount of easy drugs for personal use that is not subject to criminalisation. We believe that it should not be hidden behind the medical effects of marijuana, but rather that it should be a matter of personal choice because this choice does not endanger anyone other than themselves, and adult people have the right to make good choices and bad choices, because it is only their personal choices.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64900	Thank you, Mr. Stevanović. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – two, against – one, with abstention – there are none of the 146 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Tatjan Macura, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Financial Support for the Family with Children, submitted to the National Assembly by the National MPs Tatjana Macura, Vladimir Đurić, Aleksandar Stevanović, LJupka Mihajlovska and Nenad Bozic, 25 September 2018. Here's my colleague, Macura.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64901	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear colleagues, I am going to ask you today for my proposal to amend and supplement the Family Financial Support Act with children to support everyone together in order to finally find those changes in the assembly debate that they look forward to with impatience for mothers who have given birth since July 2018 and here. Today, as you all know, we adopted the budget for the next calendar year. The budget doubles somewhere around 1.9 billion dinars more than it was before to support the Ministry of Labour. I sincerely hope that this money that has been directed towards the work of the Ministry of Labour can be used to support parenting in Serbia and with this regard, I would like you to support me in order to finally amend and supplement the Law on Financial Support for the Family with Children, which a number of mothers leave with compensations that even under a thousand dinars a month, so that they can really enjoy parenting and Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64902	Thank you, colleague Macura. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there are none, for—five, against—no abstentions—of the 146 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Tatjan Macura, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Territorial Organisation of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 25 September 2018. Here's my colleague, Macura.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64903	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear colleagues, we managed to adopt amendments to the Law on the Territorial Organisation of the Republic of Serbia last year. The proposal came from a colleague on the other side of this hall and, I think, from a colleague and then I was encouraged to write a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Territorial Organization, to ask for your support. Namely, a Belgrade municipality, the Zemun City Municipality, with its predispositions, answers that it finally becomes an independent municipality, or city. In favour of this idea that Zemun finally becomes the city, the data also suggests that, according to the 2011 census, nearly 160,000 inhabitants live in the territory of this municipality, a far greater number of citizens than in fact live in certain cities of the Republic of Serbia. Then we have a very large number of citizens whose taxes and contributions, which are paid neatly in the budget of the Republic of Serbia, actually go towards the city, and from there they shift to citizens living in the territory of Zemun. Then we have a very large number of agricultural holdings is also something that is interesting since Zemun is so closely connected to the city center. We have 19 elementary schools and nine high schools in Zemun. This is what we have according to the 2017 census and according to some announcements by local self-government leaders in Zemun there are even indications that there will be a possible expansion of the number, i.e. an increase in the number of primary schools, and these are just some of the data that go in favour of Zemun becoming a city. In Zemun, there are settlements that, according to their predisposition, respond to becoming finally municipalities, that they stand alone, that they can be independent and unrelated to the city municipality of Zemun, i.e. for the city of Belgrade to function together. I'm specifically talking about the village of Batajnica, which is extremely large. We have a big industrial zone. We also have three elementary schools and this environment in which probably the largest number of citizens living from the territory of the current City Municipality of Zemun, needs to be further urbanized by finally getting a home of health, not one health station, by finally getting a secondary school and all that would, in fact, retraining this place from a simple settlement to a municipality, or the city municipality of Zemun in the city, is all that could in the future make life of citizens significantly easier on this territory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64904	Thank you, Mrs. Macura. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—five, against—no one, the abstentioned, has, of the 147 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Vladimir Djuric, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – the draft law amending the Law on Financial Political Activity, which was submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Vladimir Djuric, Tatjana Macura, Aleksandar Stevanović, LJupka Mihajlovska and Nemanja Radojević on 23 September 2019. Here you go, Mr. Turkey.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64905	Thank you, Chairman. The Modern Serbia Party believes that the Law on the financing of political activities is one of the key laws of our political and pre-election system, which can largely restore the divided trust of citizens in the political system and in representatives who, through the political process, delegate among other things to this National Assembly. Modern Serbia's party believes that political entities are obliged to be fully, completely transparent to citizens in their funding, their work and their election campaigns are obliged to present fully to the citizens. We also want to clarify a dilemma in the domestic public with this bill, which is whether it is better to fund political entities from public or private sources. We are drawing attention that in the OSCE countries, which are countries with developed democracies, over 80% of the funding of political entities comes from public sources. This eliminates the risk of political entities falling under the private influence of their private finances and thus actually eliminates the risk of a phenomenon called – captured policy. This is a situation where political entities actually advocate policies that are in the private interest of their private finances, not in the public interest of all citizens. Of course, the Modern Serbia party believes it would be ideal if political entities in Serbia were to be financed to a much greater extent from a large number of small citizens' donations, as these political entities would show that they have their basis in the mass and mass of electoral support, while citizens would thus raise their level of political activity and demonstrate confidence in these political entities, through a personal financial contribution, through a large number of small small small donations, such as the example of the presidential campaign of potential presidential candidate Bernie Sanders in the United States. Unfortunately, we are aware that the Serbian political system is far from this through the need for a new political culture. That is why the party of Modern Serbia has proposed several amendments to the Law on the financing of political activities, and one of the key ones I will draw attention to this way is the change in the distribution of public money in favour of better and stronger financing of political entities operating at local electoral levels. So in the local environments closer to and closer to their daily political needs. Because the existing solution implies an equal percentage of the distribution of tax revenues both at the central and local level of the elections, which is completely illogical, since local self-governments participate much less in these tax revenues. In this way, local political organisations that do not necessarily participate at the national electoral level would come up with better material resources and could better advocate public policies closer to citizens and their everyday lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64906	Thank you, Mr. Turkey. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is none, for four, against the abstentions, of the 148 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Before I move on to the next proposal, I would like to inform you that according to Article 27 and Articles 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly that we will be working after 1800 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to bring the acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. National MP Djordje Vukadinovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances of the murder of Mr Oliver Ivanovic, president of the Civil Initiative "Serbia, Democracy, Justice", launched in Kosovo Mitrovica, on 16 January 2018, submitted to the National Assembly by National MPs Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivic, Dr Dijana Vukomanovic, Djordje Vukadinović and Slavisa Ristic, on 5 March 2018. Does MP Gjorge Vukadinovic want a word? He's not there. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is none, for one, against the abstentions, among the 146 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Djordje Vukadinovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Production and Transport of Arms and Military Equipment, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 27 September 2018. Does MP Gjorge Vukadinovic want a word? He's not there. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is none, for one, against the abstentions, among the 146 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marijan Risticevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's polling committee to identify the facts and circumstances related to the business of cable operators, the broadcasting of cross-border channels, the broadcasting of domestic advertising in content of cross-border channels and other irregularities related to electronic media and cable operators controlled by Dragan Gilas, Dragan Šolak and David Petreus, who submitted to the National Assembly on 12 April 2019. Here you go, Mr. Ristichevich.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64907	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, when I wrote this proposal, I didn't know that part of the venture was Bakim Ulaj, a drug dealer and money launderer, the leader of the tropoly mafia, the leader of the Albanian Tropoly mafia, whose special adviser was programme director of "N1" TV, Jugoslav Ćosic. Coli Komlenski said that revenues through the company "Key Connect" - are a key link, and indeed it is a key link between Yugoslavia and other founders that these revenues were over 1m euros, except 510,000 euros, the founders of the company raised 33,000 pounds of British, $147,000 and 37m. I'm particularly interested in not only the Shyptarian Euros right now, but I'm interested in British pounds. You all know that General Simovic sold out for 200,000 euros, made a coup, and you all know that Serbs lost 13% of the population by 200,000 euros to General Simovic. The general flight, Cosic, general adviser to Albania's tropoly mafia, received 335,000 euros. This confirms my allegations that in principle what is happening on Belgrade streets, first of all, what is being called, the opposition is actually a physical work that needs to be protected by the illegal business of Šolak, Đilas, and we see that Jugoslav Ćosic joined there and that he has an enormous appeal. In doing so, I suggested that a survey committee be set up and that I should examine how unregistered television in Serbia broadcasts the programme without being registered. They say they are re-emitting a programme from Luxembourg, but it has been established through the Luxembourg regulator that there is no broadcasting there. There can be no re-emissioned programme without broadcasting, while broadcasting ads and taking bread to regular Serbian media registered with REM. Also, as part of the survey board, it is necessary to examine what officials in REM are doing and how much money they work for and justify this Solakov and Gilas business, officials, executive directors, REM general who want to cover this illegal business that threatens domestic media, but also the security and security of all citizens, because they are leaders of what is happening, they sponsor it, they support it, they do reporting, they organise everything that happens on the Belgrade streets. It's all the product of an illegal Sholak and Gilas business. Thank you. Also, as part of the survey committee, it is necessary to examine what officials in REM are doing and how much money they work for and justify this Solakov and Gilas business, officials, executive directors, REM general who want to cover this illegal business that threatens domestic media, but also the security and security of all citizens. They're the leaders of what's going on, they're media sponsoring it, they're supporting it, they're doing the reporting, they're organizing everything that's going on on the Belgrade streets. It's all the product of an illegal Sholak and Gilas business.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64908	Thank you, Mr. Ristichevich. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, abstentioned, no one, of the 146 Messengers of the people, for 20. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marijan Risticevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's polling committee, to determine the facts and circumstances related to the declaration of the fake state of Kosovo, the influence that the International Court of Justice had on this, and the responsibility of former Foreign Minister Vuk Jeremic, who submitted to the National Assembly on 27 March 2018. Here you go, Mr. Ristichevich.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64909	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there was a famous Murat aga Pozdarac in the Cazin region. His grandson or great-grandfather Vuk Jeremic in a people known as the Wolf descendant, if he was a famous Murat aga Pozderac, then Vuk Jeremic is an unheard and infamous descendant of the famous Murat age of Pozderac. You certainly remember that the Security Council, attended by the president of the fake state of Kosovo Thaci, cited the International Court of Justice as the cornerstone of its statehood. That, based on that opinion, he also founded Albanians on KIM to establish his false state. Look at the wonders, the cornerstone of the International Court of Justice was not handed out by Kosovo Albanians, not even by Americans, but by the stone found at the request of Vuk Jeremic, who sought the opinion of the International Court of Justice, knowing that the court was made up of judges from countries that recognised the false state of Kosovo. He knew in advance what kind of opinion he would be, and thus the stone founder Vuk Jeremic added to the hands of separatists, to the hands of Albanian terrorists who, on the basis of this declaration, declared legal because they claim that the International Court of Justice confirms it with its own opinion. I believe that the polling board can also identify other facts related to the case because I believe it is the return of services to the US administration and Kosovo independence sponsors because Vuk Jeremic and Boris Tadic promised the US administration that they would do so if Boris Tadic were elected president of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. Albanians only extend the declaration of independence after the 2008 election of Boris Tadic, as president of the Republic of Serbia. That's what happened. As soon as Boris Tadic took the oath, Albanians declared independence, and Vuk Jeremic asked for an opinion and in a certain way stamped the false state of KIM. That's why I think the committee of inquiry should address these facts and inform them of the authorities, i.e. The D.A.'s office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64910	Thank you, Mr. Ristichevich. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 18, against – no one with abstentions – has, of 145. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marijan Risticevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to identify the facts and circumstances related to visits to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia of certain extremist organisations and individuals, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 27 March 2018. Here you go, Mr. Ristichevich.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64911	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you all know that Bosko Ljotic Žutić received Bosko Pernar here in due time. This is the grandson of that Pernar who asked in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia how much Serbian blood cost. He is happy to receive a guest from Bosko Žutic L Jotic, and here we have his representative, Mr. Ševarlic, who yesterday, despite Mr. Martinovic's insistence, did not want to be fenced by a sniper pointed at the president of the Republic, Aleksandr Vukic and then the president of Republika Srpska, Milorad Dodik. Despite the insistence, Mr. Martinovic, to give up and fence the front page in a time of shame, they did not want it. What do I mean by that? That extremism is giving birth to extremism. It is possible that Mr. Ševarlic left the Boška Obradovic group, which was his bearer of the list, but it seems that Bosko Obradovic did not leave Mr. Ševarlic. With this in mind, to warn him not to trick these citizens of the Republic of Serbia with a declaration of GMOs. Because the declaration, whether so, is Mr. Martinovic, an act of lower force than the law, and the law of this Assembly prohibits the cultivation and traffic of GMOs. The declaration cannot repeal the law, the declaration is a lower act, and it is quite unnecessary, but there are extremist organisations trying to tap into the citizens and through these false declarations and advocacy. Ladies and gentlemen, this is Bosko Obradovic, Bosko LJotic, Bosko Žutic, who has received the Bulgarian organisation "Ataka" which wants to join Bulgaria's specific territory, the southern territory of our country. Now you should not be surprised why co-operation with a Bulgarian journalist, who writes the worst about our dedicated industry that creates affairs, etc., is all part of extremist organisations. Don't be surprised, when you get in touch with extreme organizations, then you get extremes, and then you look for rapes, camps, shootings, snipers, pulling signs, redecorating streets, putting bags on people's heads, resorting to torture, etc. Extremism always gives birth to another extremism. The extremist organisation Bulgaria and the extremist organisation from Croatia, which they contacted, make them an extremist and even terrorist organisation. That is why a survey committee is needed to address these issues, as this can significantly bring down the state of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64912	Thank you, Mr. Ristichevich. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 15, against – no one with abstention – has, of 145. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Djordje Milicevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the National Assembly, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 30 September 2019. Here you go, Mr. Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64913	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Dear Chairman, allow me once again to point out the importance and importance of the issues that we as a Parliament club wanted us to launch through proposing amendments to the Law on the National Assembly, which is one of our key issues - how to prevent the parliamentary mandate from being the subject of political trade after the parliamentary elections. In addition to the fact that this is a violation of the electoral will of citizens, this issue is also directly related to political stability, and political stability is a prerequisite for any further progress by Serbia. In addition, another key issue is raised, and that is what is more important, what is, in fact, older -- the electoral will of citizens or the ownership of a mandate. I think that once a public hearing that has lasted since 2003 at the recommendation of the Venice Commission, when we had over 250 in parliament, about 300 MPs, a public hearing that created a legal anarchy and a space for political abuse, we finally need to get in the way and finally put an end to it. I remind you that the current assembly of the Assembly has 14 parliamentary groups and 22 independent MPs. I don't think it happened in any previous National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, that at some point, I think directly before the presidential elections, we didn't even know how many parliamentary groups we had in parliament, because we couldn't assume which parliamentary group belonged to one of the fellow Members of Parliament, that it was enough to have money, buy a political party, find three MPs and have your own political party, although you didn't participate in the elections, and you have your deputies in several different parliamentary clubs. Respecting the Constitution, respecting the unwritten rule that electoral legislation does not change during the election year, respecting what we emotionally and personally disagree with, which is that the mandate belongs to the MP because, let me, we in Serbia have a proportionate electoral system. With all due respect, each of us has not entered the National Assembly by name and last name. So, by respecting all this I have stated, we have tried to resolve this issue through the initiative of the Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the National Assembly, that is, through the internal organisation of the Assembly, in particular, Article 30. We spoke with representatives of the State Department and local self-government. If this is not enough, to put an end to this key and important issue, we have asked Ministry representatives to tell us what is still a set of legislative proposals to be adopted and proposed, in order to resolve this key and important issue in Serbia. Of course, we are ready to talk and accept initiatives and proposals and other parliamentary clubs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64914	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Finalizing vote: for - 22 MPs. Ambassador Djordje Milicevic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point - a proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64915	Thank you, Your Honor. As Mr Markovic said at the beginning of the assembly session, on Day 332, one part of the opposition does not participate in the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and that is their legitimate right, that is their legitimate form of political struggle. However, another question is raised - did they justify their absence from the session in accordance with the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? The boycott of parliament -- they say, because they have been denied the democratic debate and democratic confrontation of parliament's opinion. We believe that the cause of the boycott is the inability to show their strength through an argumentable debate and an argumentary conflict of opinion. So it's not force of force, it's force of argument. We believe that there could always be an argument and democratic debate from the field of politics and that we could always find one common denominator for all of us, which is Serbia's prosperity. But it takes a realistic, responsible and serious approach, with a view to the future, which is definitely not part of the opposition's representatives. And when they were in parliament, we couldn't hear any proposal, we couldn't hear any concrete idea, we couldn't hear any alternative. We knew only one thing - that they were absolutely against everything that they did and were doing the ruling coalition and we listened to criticism for criticism. They don't come to meetings, they say very often -- they're not interested in parliamentary salaries, but I don't see any of them giving up parliamentary salaries, I don't see any of them giving up the privilege of traveling, I don't see anyone giving up travel expenses, travel abroad. I'll remind you, Serbian citizens, whether they work in the private or public sector, if they don't come to work and justify their absence, does that reflect their material status? Of course I do. We too must share the fate of Serbian citizens, because we are MPs, but we are citizens of Serbia. There are no first and second-class citizens here. We do not want this proposal, as one part of the opposition said, to discipline no one, nor force anything, just insisting on respecting the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and respecting the dignity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Otherwise, we fully agree with you, the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, when you said that the current Rules of Procedure is not good to change in part. It is important for each of us to come up with a particular initiative, with a specific proposal, but the current Rules of Procedure on Labour have a number of open issues and a new Rules of Procedure should not and should not reflect the current political moment, so that each parliamentary majority brings its Rules of Procedure on Labour. And this, and the previous question, I also took advantage of the possibility and set up representatives of the European Parliament. I didn't get an answer, since in most cases and in 2003, and when it came to the Rules of Procedure, we listened to their suggestions, their suggestions, I asked them a question at the meetings we had in the National Assembly, the conversations we had. I didn't get the answer, which, of course, doesn't mean I won't ask him again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64916	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Finalizing vote: for -18 MPs. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Ambassador Aleksandar Martinovic, pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 192 paragraph 3, and in accordance with Article 157(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that a common principle and uniform search of points 1 to 11 of the proposed agenda and a common principle search be carried out, second group of laws, from points 12 to 16 of the proposed agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please plead. I conclude the vote: 133 MPs voted against the debate, against - no one, abstentioned - no one voted 13 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, has accepted this proposal. Since we've come to terms with these proposals, I'm putting the agenda on the table. I conclude the vote: for - 133 MPs, against - no one, abstentioned - no one voted six MPs. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the 7th session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019. Dn e v n i r e d: 1. Proposal for a decision to give consent to the Decision amending the Social Insurance Fund's 2019 Change of the Government's Social Insurance Fund; 2. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance, submitted by the Government; 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, which was submitted by the Government; 4. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Income Tax of Citizens, submitted by the Government; 5. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes, which was submitted by the Government; 6. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Property Tax Act, which was submitted by the Government; 7. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act, submitted by the Government; 8. Proposal for a law on the termination of the Act on the provisional regulation of the basis for the calculation and payment of salaries, i.e. earnings and other permanent incomes for public-funded users, which was submitted by the Government; 9. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on corporate tax, which was submitted by the Government; 10. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Taxes on Use, Holding and Wearing of Goods, which the Government has submitted; 11. Proposal for a law amending the Act on the provisional arrangements for the payment of a public media service fee submitted by the Government; 12. Proposal for a law amending the Law on salaries of employees of public agencies and other organisations established by the Republic of Serbia, an autonomous province or units of local self-government, which was submitted by the Government; 13. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Public Sector Payments System, submitted by the Government; 14. Proposal for a law amending the Law on the salaries of officials and deputies in the bodies of the Autonomous Province and the Unit of Local Self-Government, which was submitted by the Government; 15. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Service Employees, which was submitted by the Government; 16. A bill on agency employment, submitted by the government. We're going to work on the established agenda of the session, and I'm asking the ministers to join us. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(2) and Article 192(3), paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principle and uniform search of the points of the established agenda from 1 to 11. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? He has the word of Minister Sinisha Mali.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64917	Thank you very much. Dear Members, first of all, I would like to thank you for the very constructive discussion we had on the 2020 budget. Today, new laws are ahead of us, a set of tax laws that goes with the 2020 budget and if you haven't heard before, wants me to share with you the information that based on the report of the Office for Statistics of the Republic of Serbia, the unemployment rate in the Republic of Serbia for the third quarter of this year is below 10%, for the first time in history since 1995, since it counts or measures the unemployment rate is 9.5%, so below 10%, which suggests that we are on the right track, when it comes to our economic policy, to go with increasing employment, or reducing unemployment. Of course, our goal is to arrive, the first next goal is to have a European average of about 6%, 7%, and to reduce it further. Just a set of tax laws that are before you today need to enable us and these laws have two kinds of measures in them. I dare say that for the first time, perhaps, in recent, recent history, we are thinking and acting in a way that further encourages employment and that the fiscal space that we have to use to further increase the number of employees in our country. There are two sets of measures under the laws that are in front of you today. One set of measures is aimed at further reducing the payload. It is a promise we made last year that every year we will further reduce the burden on earnings to boost employment growth to boost new employment. It is in the set of laws that you today are facing that you are abolishing part of the contribution for PIO on the employer's burden of 0.5%. So that rate decreases from 12% to 11.5% and you also have in the Law on Income Tax for Citizens an increase in the non-taxable part of profit from 15.300 dinars to 16.300 dinars. These two measures together allow the profit burden to be reduced from 62% this year to 61% since 1 January 2020 and we will continue to reduce the profit burden from year to year, as our results continue to be better. The second set of measures is direct incentives, direct tax incentives aimed at new employment, fostering employment, and they concern both the reduction of contributions and the reduction of taxes. So, for all the new employees of the following year who were not in 2019, they had no job you have a release, i.e. a reduction of the obligation to pay contributions for PIO for employers of 100% in 2020, 85% by 2021, by the end of 2021 and 85% by the end of 2022. A concrete measure aimed at giving new employees a huge, almost 100% exemption from contributions over the next three years. In addition, you have income tax exemption in the next three years, also at 70%, 65% and 60% for 2020. Dear MPs, I do not remember that we have ever gone out and that any government before us has come out with such concrete measures that are directed towards new employment, and we are about to reduce that unemployment rate that is 9.5% today, so on the historical lowest level and further down. They cancel out, shrink over the next three years and contribute to PIO and income taxes. To encourage new employment, another measure that is in the set of laws that is in front of you today is a relief to reduce the contribution over the next three years, which contributes to 70% for newly-inhabited persons, therefore, for those who have not lived in Serbia in the past two years, just with hope and a desire to encourage our young people who are currently abroad and who are trying to make their dreams come true elsewhere, to return to Serbia and to have their Serbian dream come true here. So for them, if they meet some of the conditions defined by the law, you have a reduction in the contribution of 70%. All the other laws that are in front of you today, each individual has reliefs, there are improvements that are just aimed at continuing our economic policy on the principle of increasing our standard of living and accelerating our economic growth. These are laws that reduce tax burdens, make it easier for direct employment. So they are directly focused on new employment, and I hope that we will have a constructive discussion about these laws, so that we can re-adopt what is in the best interests of citizens, which is aimed at reducing unemployment, i.e. increasing employment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64918	Thank you. The word has Minister Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64919	The Honorable Presidents of the National Assembly, honourable MPs, ladies and gentlemen, after a little over a year in this House, is again presented the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act. As then and in this case, it is about changes that are directed primarily towards improving the position of insurance companies, pensioners, but also administrative procedures and procedures. The improved stability of public finances, as well as the ever-increasing situation in terms of funding pensions, create real foundations and conditions for improving the mandatory pension and disability insurance system. For this reason, it has been approached by amendments to the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act today. However, in order to take a proper look at the direction of the development of the pension system and the continuity in doing the job, and with a view to establishing a long-term economically sustainable pension system, I think it is useful to recall all phases of the reforms that have been undertaken over the past 20 years. Namely, the pension system reform began in 2001 in response to the accumulated problems that threatened to completely collapse this system. The crisis in the financing of compulsory pension and disability insurance was created in the 1990s, and continued over the twenty-th century and continued until 2014, all as a consequence of the following factors: the unfavourable general economic situation in the country, primarily caused by the 1990s crisis, financial indiscipline or failure to pay contributions by a number of economic operators, partly due to the poor situation in which they were found, and partly due to the reduction of payment control and the general crisis in the economic environment, which is again conditioned by the transition to market economy, sanctions, bombing and other serious factors. A low level of employment, then an unfavourable demographic situation, and I repeat that Serbia is among the oldest societies in Europe, an extension of the life span of the population, solving the problem of excess labour through their accelerated retirement, relatively favourable criteria for retirement, which have not adapted to changes in the environment, such as low age limit, broad and mildness definition of disability, with the simple exercise of the right to disability pension. Then, the use of the pension system for short-term labour market problems, primarily because of a large number of unemployed and surplus employees in large business entities and abuses in the exercise of the right to invalidity pension, but also other reasons. These factors resulted in a drastic reduction in insurance and pensioners' relations, a significant increase in pension expenditure, which was faster than income growth, and a delay in pension payments and an unwarranted high participation of disabled pensioners. These facts made it necessary to adopt measures that would improve the situation in the pension system and create a basis for its development in line with the needs of society. The adaptation of the pension system to changing circumstances in society and the country's economy, with a view to creating conditions for the long-term sustainability of the system, has been implemented phasely in the amendments to the rules adopted in this House 2001, 2003, 2004, 2005, 2010, 2014 and 2018. I would remind you that in 2014 the key reform measures taken in those phases of the reform were aimed at gradually adapting the conditions for pension rights to reduced demographic circumstances, changing the way pensions are accounted for, organising changes in the implementation of pension and disability insurance, as well as extending the structure of the pension system, introducing a system of voluntary pension funds. However, regardless of the significant positive effects expressed through the slowdown of growth and then the decline of pension deficits, as well as the increase of the average age of new pensioners, the measures taken in previous years were not sufficient to overcome the problem of the existence of deficits and the sustainable functioning of the system under the existing socio-economic circumstances. The number of pensioners continued to grow and was disproportionately large in relation to the number of insurance companies, and the demographic structure deteriorated. All of the above has affected the rejuvenation of the situation in compulsory pension and disability insurance, so in 2014, a very high deficit was found in the Republic of Serbia's budget and almost unsustainable regular financing of pension payments. For this reason, fiscal consolidation measures have also been taken, the component of which was also a pension system due to its high participation in public expenditures. In fact, it was necessary to halt the growth of the deficits of this system and to reduce the withdrawal from the budget to finance pension payments. The basis for the long-term improvement of the financial sustainability of compulsory pension and disability insurance was established by the adoption of amendments and additions to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which envisions the gradual equalisation of conditions for women's retirement in terms of age with men at 65 years of age up to 2032. In addition, the conditions for early retirement have been tightened by introducing early retirement rights to early retirement with a permanent reduction in the amount of temporary retirement of 0.34% on an annual basis, 4.08% for each month prior to retirement before the completion of the general age line, as well as by tightening the conditions for age pension for insured insurance workers. However, as the fiscal consolidation also required a reduction in pension expenditure within a shorter period, the Law on the temporary arrangement of the way in which pensions were paid was reduced in the start of the pension for November 2014, which was finally applied with the payment of pensions for September 2018. In order to protect pensioner standards, pensions below 25,000 dinars were not covered by the reduction. So, in this case, social responsibility has been shown because pensioners with lower pensions are protected, so that with that measure, there are no reduced incomes for 61% of pensioners, or about a million of them. This measure was difficult and risky, but necessary. The pensioners understood it the right way to show that they were one of the most responsible parts of our society. As a result, given that fiscal consolidation measures have achieved the objectives set and the country's development has been restarted, this government is particularly grateful to the pensioners on the burden they have borne. Given the need to protect the material position of pensioners, as soon as the first positive results in the progress of our country's economy and the improved situation in the budget, the government has proposed an increase in pensions, much earlier than originally planned through the fiscal consolidation programme. According to this pension definition, 1.25% increased in December 2015 by 1.5% in December 2016 by 5% in December 2017. In addition, twice in late 2016 and at the end of 2017, 5,000 dinars were paid to all pensioners. Therefore, although the adoption of that law was necessary, the government is also taking measures to protect pensioners' standards during the fiscal consolidation period. To remind you, the amendments to last year's rules have adopted a large number of measures that have contributed to the improvement of the pension user's standards, as well as more effective implementation of mandatory pension and disability insurance. As already said, the adoption of amendments and amendments to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act ceased the validity of the Law on the temporary arrangement of the way pensions were paid, or the popular law on pension cuts, so that, starting with a pension for October 2018, which was regularly paid in November of the previous year, all pensions are paid without a reduction. In addition to the suspension of pension cuts in disbursements and the above-mentioned amendments to the Law adopted last year, a legal basis has been established which gives the Government the opportunity to pay the amount of money as an increase in pension, depending on economic developments and available space in the Republic of Serbia's budget, with additionally determined that the funds for these purposes cannot be higher than 0.3% of GDP per year. This paper was introduced in order to improve pensioners' standards that receive lower pensions, and in accordance with that October 2018, a regulation adopted under which the said amount of money in November and December of last year was paid to all pensioners whose pensions amount to up to 34,003,90 dinars. The additional Regulation, adopted in December 2018, extended the payment of the cash amount as an increase in pension and during 2019. That amount as a pension increase shall be paid in different amounts depending on the amount of the pension of the beneficiary. Most of them are paid by lower pensioners whose pensions are up to 26,643,75, and receive on this basis an amount equal to 5% of their pension. What are the effects of these measures? The suspension of pensions and the start of payment of the amount of money, towards an increase in pension, ensures that total pensions and cash amounts to pension increases, all pensioners in November and December 2018, as continued during 2019, are increased by at least 5% compared to the amount of September pension paid in October. Therefore, the total amount that all pensioners received in October 2018 and who receive and today has been increased by at least 5% compared to the amount of pensions they received prior to the amendment of the law. If these amounts are observed in relation to the period before the start of the pension reduction, i.e. Before November 2014, it is important to point out that the total income of the beneficiaries of pensions is now higher by between 7.9% and 13.3% in the middle of the aggregate effect of coordination that was implemented in the meantime in 2015, 2016, 2017, as well as the amount introduced towards an increase in pension. The amendments to the 2018 law also found that the financing of the Republic PIO Fund can be extremely used to pay out financial assistance to pensioners and cash compensation when such assistance is needed by a large number of users established by the Government, taking into account the balance sheet options of the Fund. Accordingly, all pensioners in November 2018 paid 3,000 dinars. Meanwhile, another payment to pensioners was made on this basis since in early November of this year, 5.000 dinars were paid to all pensioners, and 8.7 billion dinars were spent on this payment from the Fund. The data show that, thanks to the measures presented, as well as to the increase in pensions of 5% from December 2017, whose effects were felt in 2018, total pensioners’ income in 2018 actually increased by 3.6% compared to 2017. Given that the withdrawal of pensions in payments, as well as the start of payment of cash towards an increase in pension, began at the end of 2018, so that their effect was fully paid in this year, and also, given the slightly earlier payment of 5,000 dinars, the current estimate is that total pensioners’ income in 2019 will actually increase by around 4% compared to 2018. When we sum up the effects, it is noticeable that the real value of the total income, and thus the standard of pensioners in 2019, on average almost 8% higher than in 2017, which you will acknowledge is a sensitive improvement if we achieve planned low inflation in next year, the upcoming increase in pensions in January 2020, by 5.4%, will continue the trend of real pension growth in 2020. This is certainly a positive result, although still insufficient because most pensioners receive pensions to the level of the average pension, which will be 27.764 dinars after an increase of 5.4% for all insurance companies, i.e. 29.042 dinars for insurance workers who are the most employed. However, it is important to point out that a positive trend in real pension growth has been established, and a projected and further stable development of our country will also allow for further improvements in the standards of our pensioners. This government will take special care of it in the coming period. In this place, it is very important to point out that the above-mentioned increase in pension incomes did not undermine the financial sustainability of the system or the stability of public finances. In 2018, nearly 24 billion dinars were needed for the payment of increased net pensions, cash towards pension increases and a one-time payment of 3,000 dinars compared to funds paid for similar purposes in 2017. According to the financial plan of the Republic Fund for PIO in 2019, 39.2 billion dinars were needed more than in 2018. So in two years' time, expenditures have increased by 63.2 billion dinars, which, you agree, is a very significant amount of funds. However, the total contribution for all of these pensioners was reduced from 10.7% in 2017 to 10.5% in 2018, and is expected to remain at that level in 2019. Also, in the same period, the contribution of grants from the budget to cover the deficits of the Republic Fund in GDP was reduced from 3.4% in 2017 to 2.9% in 2018 and the planned 2.8% in 2019. If grants from the budget are made in relation to the revenues of the Republic Pension and Disability Insurance Fund, their participation in 2018 was reduced from 27.4% to 24.2%, and is expected to be 22.5% in 2019. It should be noted that grants, together with other revenue from the Fund, are financed not only by pension expenditures but also by other rights, such as pensioner health insurance and several types of pension and disability benefits. This is a significant positive shift towards achieving the conditions for the sustainable operation of the Republic Fund, as in earlier years the contribution from the budget to the total revenue of the Fund accounted for as much as 48%. Therefore, the above data show that directing significant additional funds towards improving the standards of pensioners not only did it not violate the financial stability of the system, but the financial indicators are even improved. Such success is possible thanks to the improved situation in our country's economy, which among other views and growth of income based on contributions to pension and disability insurance. Contribution revenues increased from 397 billion in 2017 to 434 billion in 2018, and estimated to be around 476 billion dinars in this case, accounting for 8.8% of GDP in this year. The growth in income based on this contribution is the result of employment growth and thus a higher number of insurance companies, as well as an increase in earnings in the previous period. In addition, all the measures taken to establish the financial discipline of the employer and the depositary have yielded a positive result, and this directly affects the operations of the Fund. In addition to significant changes aimed at improving the standards of pensioners, there is no need to forget the other measures adopted last year, and they apply to the functioning of the pension and disability insurance system. In the part of the law governing the parent records of the Republic Fund, it is necessary to adapt the legal provisions in the public administration reform process defined by the Public Administration Reform Strategy in the Republic of Serbia and the Action Plan for implementing the 2015-2017 Public Administration Reform Strategy. With these adaptations to strategic documents, as well as the World Bank's recommendations, the amendments to the law are in line with the recommendations and plan of priority activities to reduce administrative burdens in the Republic of Serbia in the period 2016-2018, stop bureaucracy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. These changes resulted in a reduction in administrative procedures in the parent records, a reduction in employers' obligations on this basis, a simplification of procedures by avoiding double records, by taking data from institutions that they have, etc., and consequently by reducing administrative costs. In view of all the measures taken in the previous period, progress in the economy, as well as expected positive economic developments in 2020 and in the coming years, conditions were created for the continuation of the reform process in order to further reduce compulsory pension and disability insurance and pension systems in general in order to improve the situation of insurance and users. In that sense, I would especially like to raise the issue of pension harmonisation. Namely, to achieve economic results and financial stability established, as well as to impose pension expenditures in the framework of fiscal rules, have enabled the issue of harmonisation of pensions to be removed from the Budgetary System Act and fully defined by the home law on pension and disability insurance, which is precisely the basis of this bill. In this place, it should be recalled that the pension harmonisation formula has so far been contained in the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, with its application suspended in favour of the law governing the budget and the budgetary system, which was necessary during the period of implementation of fiscal consolidation. In addition to proposing that the harmonisation of pensions in the future be regulated under the provisions of the PIO Act, the bill also contains provisions that define in a new way the formula for the harmonisation of pensions, the period in which the harmonisation will be carried out, as well as the parameters to be taken into account for the determination of the percentage of harmonisation. This proposal aims to ensure the following: the existence of a clear and predictable way of harmonising pension levels, to ensure that pension growth is to a certain extent related to profit growth, an increase in the real value of pensions, and thus the pensioner's standard, the preservation of financial stability and the sustainable way of financing pension payments and other PIO rights. This specifically means that the bill will also define the harmonisation that will be implemented once a year, starting with a pension for January 2020. The parameters to be used to determine the percentage of harmonisation are the movement of the average tax-free earnings and contributions and the trend of consumer prices. These parameters will have an equal share in the pension alignment formula, in line with the popularly called Swiss formula. Therefore, pensions will be aligned according to a formula that includes 50% tax-free changes and 50% change in consumer prices. In this place, it is important to stress that the data on the movement of the average tax-free income and the contribution and the trend of consumer prices taken into account when calculating the level of harmonisation refer to the movement of those parameters for a period of 12 months, starting from June of the previous year, and back to July, compared to the 12 months preceding that period. So it's about the average movement of those parameters over the 12 months compared to the previous 12 months. For example, the percentage of pension harmonisation for January 2020 is obtained as half of the average tax-free growth rate and contributions for July 2018 – June 2019 compared to the average earnings for July 2017 – June 2018 and the percentage of consumer prices for July 2018 – June 2019. The question may be asked why the reference period is chosen, i.e. why pensions are not harmonised according to the average movement of those parameters for the previous calendar year. There are two reasons for that. The first reason is a more technical nature and is related to the fact that profit-making data are published 55 days after the expiry of the period to which they apply, which is incompatible with the intention of bringing pensions into line starting in January, as the data on the movement of average income without taxes and contributions would, for example, be known for 2019 compared to 2018 only at the end of February 2020. The second reason is much more important and is related to the already mentioned intention of harmonising pensions in a predictable way, with responsibility for public finances. In this way, the percentage of pension adjustments in the following year will be known by the end of August of the current year, which means that pensioners will already know how much of their income increases can count. On the other hand, harmonisation of pensions is linked to the public spending planning process for next year, which also achieves predictability, but also responsibility when it comes to managing public funds. Since the government's clear objective is to raise standards and employees and pensioners, indicators of pensioners' standards will be monitored over the year and, if necessary, measures will be taken to protect them either through single aid or pension increase, and it is important to point out that we have provided legal instruments for intervention if necessary. In addition to the harmonisation of pensions, no doubt the central issue of this bill, the proposed amendments and additions to the PIO Act include other no less important changes from the aspect of the pension system's regulation as follows. It is envisaged to specify the standards relating to supplementary pension savings, which fully aligns the pension and disability insurance system with the rules on voluntary pension funds and pension plans. The proposed changes confirm that PIO is mandatory in the Republic of Serbia, and that the pension system in our country also makes voluntary pension funds and pension plans governed by special law. This is essentially the system of voluntary pension funds and pension plans and is formally recognised as part of the pension system. Further important changes concern the expansion of the scope of the family pension right. In the act of exercising the right to a family pension, the extramarital community is equated with marriage, which at the same time complies with the provision of Article 62, paragraph 5 of our Constitution. So, at the beginning of the application of this provision, the right to a family pension will also be able to bring about persons living in an extramarital community with the deceased, where the existence of an extramarital community is determined in an extramarital procedure. In order to prevent possible abuses that can result in a fictitious conclusion of marriage and a fictitious non-marriage community, a special standard provides that a spouse or a non-marriage partner of the deceased may exercise the right to a family pension if the marriage, i.e. an extramarital community of life, lasted at least three years or if, with a deceased insurance undertaking, or the beneficiary of the right, have a common child. The next change refers to arrangement of payment, compensation for funeral expenses, paid in the event of the death of the user, pension and disability insurance rights. It is proposed that the payment and the amount of the compensation of the funeral expenses be imposed by a special chapter, with the removal of this fee as pension and disability insurance rights, given that this compensation does not essentially belong to the insurance undertaking or to the beneficiary of the pension and disability insurance rights, but to the person with the cost of the funeral. The aim of the proposal is to pay more effectively the compensation of funeral expenses to the person who really borne the cost of the funeral. With the development of a dynamic business environment, new circumstances are increasingly emerging in practice, which have not been recognised by current regulations. Therefore, it is necessary to react as soon as possible and to adapt the rules to the changed circumstances. The aim is not to impair the further development of the economy and society, but also to create conditions for progress in other areas. For this reason, the bill also regulates the status of persons working on the territory of our country for a foreign employer who does not have registered entrepreneurship and representation in our country in such a way as to introduce those categories of persons into insurance as self-employed workers. This extends the scope of insurance, and in addition, the situation that is increasingly present in practice is resolved. It is also proposed to align the rules in pension and disability insurance with the provisions governing the issue of income tax, contribution to compulsory social security and proposed amendments to the Regulation on simple application of mandatory social security. The same way is predicted to address the problem of achieving pension and disability insurance rights, by persons carrying out agricultural activity as entrepreneurs. It is therefore proposed that they be recognised in the future as self-employed insurance companies. In this case, compliance of pension and disability insurance rules with the provisions governing income tax issues, contributions to compulsory social security and proposed amendments to the Regulation on simple application of mandatory social insurance is also proposed. The provisions of the bill also provide for certain newspapers for police officers and BIA members. In fact, police officers are proposed to equalise themselves with a professional military person in the event of disability, as they are left with the possibility of performing other jobs that are not police. As regards BIA members, on the basis of the proposed provision, the Republic Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund is taking over data by electronic means for all insurance companies, as well as for BIA members, which is already in practice. The proposed provision of the Law proposal is in line with the amendments and additions to the Law of 30 September 2018, which is prescribed to start on 1 January 2019 with data on the parent records of all insurance companies, including the members of the BIA, the Republic Fund for PIO systematically, e-mailed from the mandatory social insurance organisations database. Therefore, the proposed amendment, which already exists in practice, is only further regulated and precise by law. The bill also stipulates that the right to special assistance, to read and write in the future, is governed by health insurance regulations, because by its nature and character it belongs to regulations in the area. In this way, it contributes to a more precise definition of the areas of pension and disability insurance and competence of the Republic Fund for PIO, in the implementation of insurance. The following provisions of the bill refer to overcoming the problems identified in practice and improving the implementation of insurance. It is proposed that domestic nationals, if they are not necessarily insured by a foreign insurance undertaking during that time or if pension and disability insurance rights under the rules of that country cannot be achieved or used outside its territory, are no longer in the category of persons subject to compulsory insurance, i.e. They're being wiped out of security. Namely, these persons cannot be provided with compulsory insurance, since the Republic PIO Fund has no knowledge of their work abroad. Those persons are necessarily provided when they submit requests and evidence of work abroad, so there is now a high probability that there will be a avoidance of the obligation to apply on this basis. For this reason, it is proposed to amend this provision, given the problems of applying in practice. Another important issue to which the amendments and additions to the laws that we present today concern solving the problem of determining the training of insurance, when the contribution is paid at the expiry of the time limit set by the law. I note that this applies to insurance undertakings whose compulsory contribution amount has been determined by the Fund and where the obligation to pay contributions to pension and disability insurance has been made on the minimum basis after the expiry of the time limit laid down by law. In particular, it is proposed to establish the time at which the payment of the contribution is made, so that the amount of the contribution is brought in relation to the minimum monthly basis valid at the time of payment of the contribution. Then, in the part of the exercise of age and early retirement rights, the proposed changes improve the position of insurance companies under Article 14(5) of the Law with other insurance companies by stipulating that the right to an age pension or early retirement pension can be met by fulfilling the conditions for obtaining the right to an age pension or early retirement pension. These categories of persons have so far been able to achieve these rights only through the termination of insurance, which created difficulties in practice, given the character of the activities they perform. These changes relate to the following categories of insurance: persons who, in accordance with the law, carry out temporary and occasional tasks, then persons who, in accordance with the law, carry out temporary and occasional jobs through youth cooperatives considered as employers within the meaning of this law, who have completed 26 years of life, regardless of the years of life if they are not in school, then those persons working on the territory of our country for a foreign employer who does not have registered representation in our country, insurance companies who are elected, appointed or appointed persons, as well as persons who are fosterers. Given that there are indeed a number of categories of insurance companies covering a large number of persons, it is clear that the proposed provisions for more effective implementation of pension and disability insurance are important. An amendment to the provisions relating to the exercise of the right is proposed, thus bringing the law in line with the provisions of the rules governing the general administrative procedure. In the process of determining the existence of disability, physical damage, complete inability to work and incompetence for independent life and work, a reduction in the duration of the procedure is proposed, as in the second-degree procedure an assessment and the existence of those categories is given. Finally, there are also provisions that require and responsibility of staff in the Fund in relation to the provision of services to interested persons to raise to one higher level, which provides the basis for improving trust in the overall work of the Fund. Therefore, this bill contains a large number of provisions that significantly improve the standard of pensioners, while further editing of the pension system and improving the efficiency of insurance implementation are also being carried out. Finally, I want to underline once again the importance of the fact that twice in the short term in this House we present a bill aimed primarily at improving the position of insurance and users, as well as at improving the efficiency and implementation of insurance. It is a good sign that the country's economy, including the PIO system, stand on sound and realistic foundations. This was precisely the goal of all measures of the government, to create healthy economic conditions and stable finance, when it is possible to plan and implement the improvement of population standards, especially pensioners, who submitted the greatest sacrifice during the financial consolidation. This law is another example of us entering a phase of our country's stable development. Thank you for your attention. On the details of the bill, we will have the opportunity to exchange views during the debate in particular, and I believe that in the voting day you will support all these amendments and additions of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64920	Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want a word? The word has the People's MP Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64921	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, fellow MPs, we discussed nine points of the agenda at yesterday's session of the Committee, given that the 10th and 11th points of work of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs are in charge, and my colleague will file a report, and the Committee on Culture, as regards the tax on Public Media Service. That's why these nine points were really presented very well by the finance ministry. I can say that this is really good news, given that we have here and the announcement of new reliefs, especially for the employment of people who are engaged in innovation work, by opening up a question of paying taxes on citizens' incomes at the session itself, especially with regard to some specificities from the IT sector. And that's your assistant minister, Mr. Mali, very well explained, that so far practically this skill test, where young people open their business companies, and they deal with the IT sector, and they work within large companies and in their space and with their equipment, essentially today tax referents going to the field to check whether there is this capacity to be an entrepreneur, has certain criteria. We have so far not had that kind of criteria precisely defined. It is good that your ministry, together with this IT community and interested society entities in the sector, spoke to the ministry and made one proposal of nine criteria on the basis of which they are granted work permits, i.e. training and defining their later commitments to the state, and in terms of paying the flat-rate tax. This whole set of laws that we had yesterday to discuss on the Committee, and today on the tide, is essentially the main basis for the implementation of the 2020 budget. I think there's been some, how can I say, justice and rights without so much pressure from some opposition parties to discuss the budget exclusively. This set of laws was actually to be proposed together with Serbia's budget, but it's not a problem we're discussing now either. We will have plenty of time to say about all of these details, which we have heard, we are talking about, and, ultimately, through amendments and through the amendment debate, a lot of things we say that may not have been the opportunity to say now in the principle debate, because many changes have been introduced by this set of laws. Much has been shifted as a certain limit, which actually improves the investment environment for all those sectors that are now in full swing and have great growth and development. So, on the Finance Committee, I can really say, there was a constructive atmosphere, although members of the opposition parties were present. I think they had a very good chance of hearing what we were talking about, what all the changes were really made to these legal proposals. In voting day, regardless of which they probably won't vote for these legislative proposals, I think the public needs to support a truly disbursement of the economy, an improvement in many legislative proposals relating to pension insurance, a relief of taxis and fees that will no longer have to be paid by all Serbian citizens, and I think that is really full support for the 2020 budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64922	The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64923	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, distinguished ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the Committee on the Work of Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Reduction of Poverty at its session held on 26 November discussed in principle the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Pension and Disabilities Insurance and proposed that the National Assembly adopt the law. What I have to say first is that the economy is the basis and foundation of the adoption of one of these laws. In the process of reforming pension and disability insurance, long ago 2001, but only now have conditions for long-term sustainability of pension and disability insurance which is otherwise required under the law. What is the positive effect of changing and supplementing the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act? This is a better standard of living for citizens, i.e. a better standard of living for pensioners, and they are 24% in the total population, because we know that the Republic of Serbia belongs to the category of states with the old population. A better standard of living according to the new model of pension accounting, which is so-called. The Swiss model, where pensions from 1 January 2020 will be increased by 5.4%. When watching the period from 2014 to 2018, I have to say that pensions increased from 13.7 to 19.4%, and depending, of course, on pension levels. I must stress that the basis and basis of this one law are all the measures that have been painful, but of course which were only possible, which have been implemented through fiscal consolidation measures to make our economy better and that our economy is based on sound and realistic foundations. The reduction of public debt, on the one hand, is the policy of this government, and the increase of wages and pensions directly affect the improvement of the standards and quality of life of all citizens, and thus the increase of pensioners' standards. This law also corrects the observed shortcomings in practice, which the ministry, of course, has seen correcting this law, and the minister has already stated that it is the right to compensation for funeral expenses. It is no longer a right, since it does not belong to the user or the insurance company, it has already been transferred to one separate part. Then these are the rights to provide special assistance, which certainly does not belong to the set of these laws, but to the Health Insurance Act. Also, I must point out that the average pension in 2020 will be 235 euros. This is also a significant increase in pensions compared to 2010 when the average pension was 190 euros. All of this, of course, wouldn't have been possible if there hadn't been a recovery of the economy, the projected economic growth for next year is 4%, inflation is stable and moving within the European average, which is about 2%. Therefore, the increase in pensions planned by this law is also their real increase precisely because inflation is practically gone, i.e. for many years it has been stable and is at about 2%. Also, the number of employees is increasing. The insurance ratio is... (President: Bring the end. )......................................................................................................... in a direct causative relationship with the amount of pensions, and that is what for each commendation – the growth of the number of employees, the growth of pensions. The Serbian Progressive Party will vote in favour of such changes and amendments to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64924	Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The People's MP, Marija Jevdzic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64925	Thank you. Dear Chairman, respected ministers, on today's agenda we have a set of laws following the adopted Budget Act for 2020. As far as the budget itself is concerned, in the previous two weeks, during the debate, which in principle, in particular, we could hear that the 2020 budget is a developmental one, which provides for larger investments. What is most important for our citizens is the increase in wages and pensions, and everything in line with the opportunities we have. As such, the JS parliamentary group voted in favour of the Republic of Serbia's budget. When we talk about the social security of military insurance, it is one of the topics of today's session, we need to look at the mobility and operationality of the Republic of Serbia's Army. When we look back from 2012, much has been invested in modernising our army's equipment, but also in the position of our soldiers. As a socially responsible society, we need to recognize and value all those who have dedicated their lives to serving the country and to safeguarding its security. It is the project of building apartments for members of all security structures that is one of the indicators that the state of Serbia supports and takes care of the needs of our members. Some 18,000 members of the defence ministry and the Serbian Army do not adequately resolve the housing issue. Fortunately, a project that has been awaiting realisation since 2011, which refers to the construction of a complex of residential facilities for members of the Serbian Army in Nis, finally began its realization in September, and there will be more than 20,000 squares of living space built there. It is also in Kraljevec, Kragujevac and Vranj, where the state-run housing programme for members of forces and security has been continued. As far as investment in military health is concerned, it constantly improves and improves the quality of life of every member of the army, invests in the acquisition of modern diagnostic treatment apparatus and is thus released to VMA at the beginning of the year into the work of modern magnetic resonance that has more advanced performance compared to previous ones. The proposed decision we are discussing today concerns the Financial Plan of the Social Insurance Fund, and I would take advantage of the opportunity and add one suggestion regarding the improvement of the health insurance of military insurance, and as we know in the health system of the Republic of Serbia, electronic recipes have been revived and they have proved to be very effective, the doctor's waiting has been reduced, and doctors have more time to devote themselves to patients, but unfortunately even in military health institutions, recipes continue to be made and simply doctors do not have that much time to devote themselves to all patients, and I think that in the next period of the introduction of electronic prescriptions and military insurance will continue to work to improve and improve the quality of health insurance of military soldiers. The proposed Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance is another way for business environment reforms to be such as to attract more investment, raise employment and economic growth itself and, on the other hand, to dissipate economic operators. In particular, the proposed law reduces the contribution rate for pension-involvement insurance from 26% to 25.5%, as well as that during 2020 in the employment of previously unemployed persons the reduction rate is 70%, and during 2021, 65% and 60% in 2022. All of these measures aim to encourage new employment and reduce unemployment in Serbia, we could hear from Mr. Sinishi Mali earlier that unemployment in Serbia is below 10%, and pure comparisons for 2012 were even 25%, while youth unemployment today was around 20%, and in 2012, it was even above 50%. For Unique Serbia, these are good parameters that show that the state is working to motivate entrepreneurs and various companies to hire young people, to keep us young in Serbia. As we could see in Novi Sad last week at the Regional Youth Forum, the problems and reasons for young people leaving not only our country but the region, but it is the determination of President Aleksandr Vukic to improve the position of young people in Serbia, to enable them to stay, because they are the most important link of our society. It is encouraging that, through a project to encourage youth employment in 2019, as many as 12,670 young people gained skills for better employment, with 1,353, 21 companies and nine havs opened. In 2014 reforms started, i.e. fiscal consolidation measures and results are good, and I think it simply created a good atmosphere and favourable conditions for investment and that Serbia has become an important investment destination. Bringing concrete measures will affect further improving Serbia's competitiveness in the future, all in order to increase employment and raise the standard of living for our citizens. Another law that follows the government's economic and social policy is the Law on Income Tax, which is also on today's agenda. In the business environment that is now in Serbia and in the desire to see greater inflows of investment and job creation, the proposed amendments and additions of the Personal Income Tax Act need to be adopted as a more effective suppression of illegal labour. One of the most important changes is the increase in the untaxable amount of earnings from 15.300 to 16.300 dinars and in 2020 we will have a larger minimumer of 30.022 dinars. Speaking of the minimum for 2020 only a few years back in 2012 the minimum was 17,700 dinars, in 2017 22,880 dinars, and by looking at real growth in recent years, it is evident that the minimumer had the largest growth in the period from 2017 to 2019. On average, this is about 20% growth by two years, indicating the country's obvious progress and should be commended every year for government representatives having talks with members of the Social-Economic Council and talking about increasing the minimum labour price and dissipating the economy. We are witnessing that the various measures, which the state is implementing, are creating better conditions for work and life. Slowly but certainly a better business environment is being created, and as I have stated, the proposed law will affect more effectively the suppression of work on black and Serbia is on track to work on black-rooted and I want to commend the project "Say no work on black" which was carried out during last year in order to raise awareness and citizens on black work. The data from 2018 are encouraging and during that year more than 70,000 inspection controls were carried out, 38% more than in 2017 and 17% less black workers were found than in 2017. We expect data for 2019 and I'm sure it will prove that the trend is to reduce work to black to continue. Workers should not be denied the right to pension, health and social security, and I think that a large number of black workers are the result of previous policies that have not been governed by these areas. It is constantly working on additions and amendments to laws that will improve working conditions, and thus the quality of working life and only the increase in wages in 2020 is the result of a responsible and stable policy. The fight for every job, for every man, the fight for family and for young people to stay and live, to stay in Serbia and to live and work is the policy that Unique Serbia will always support. The proposed Tax Procedure and Administration Act aims to improve, i.e. facilitate communication and more efficient work of the Tax Administration. The constant improvement of the electronic communication of taxpayers with the Tax Administration has enabled the tax administration to meet tax obligations more easily and faster, as well as the reduction of costs in the process of filing tax returns. The Republic of Serbia is working hard to modernise the tax administration in order to reduce the cost of citizens and businesses in meeting tax obligations and to increase, or better tax control. In the last few years, the level of quality of E services has increased, saving a lot of time through elimination of parallel processes, repeat procedures and loss due to long-term procedures. The development of electronic administration also increases the level of fight against corruption and the grey economy as business processes inform and reduce the impact of the human factor on the realisation of services. As I said, the improvement of the Tax Procedure and Administration Act reduces the impact of the grey economy in Serbia which is still one of the major problems, but the data tells us that this impact is decreasing year by year, and we see that through the increase in surpluses in the 2020 budget, as well as in budgets from previous years. As far as the PIO bill is concerned, it is a continuation of the reform. Unfortunately, many of these systems, i.e. the pension insurance system, and I primarily think that the movement of pensions was used for political purposes by not looking at the country's current economic potential, so in 2012, we were literally ahead of the collapse of this system, but thanks to not so popular and particularly difficult restrictive pension measures in Serbia, and today we have the opportunity to increase pensions in line with economic stability and non-infringing and questioning whether pensions will be regular. As I stated, the measures were restrictive, especially the revision of the 2014 law and the adoption of that law was not a political decision, but an economic decision, but we managed to preserve the pension system in Serbia, to stabilise the PIO system, and this resulted in an increase in investment, new employment, which improves the relationship between the number of insurance workers and the number of pensioners, given that the system is financed on the principle of generation solidarity, i.e. current employees are funded by pensioners. We should thank pensioners for helping the country consolidate financially. The last amendment and addition of the PIO Act was in 2018, and conditions were created for further improvement related to the harmonisation of pensions based on the trend of consumer prices and the trend of average earnings in Serbia, etc. The Swiss model, which would mean that pensions will grow by a model that implies matching 50% of inflation and 50% of the average profit growth. This is currently an increase of around 5.4%. Almost every country in Europe has a model for harmonising pensions and I believe that this way of harmonising pensions in Serbia will contribute to the better situation of our pensioners, but also to the long-term stabilisation of the Pension-Inhabitation Fund, that we never again come into a situation that we have to introduce such difficult and restrictive measures. The policy that Aleksandar Vucic leads with his coalition partners Ivica Dacic and Dragan Markovic Palm is responsible and primarily focused on improving the lives of ordinary people, as well as improving the image of our country in the world. We have testified that lately 17 countries have withdrawn the so-called confession. The Republic of Kosovo and this is a good indicator of Serbia's growing reputation in the world and that Serbia is on track to become an equal partner in the International Community as well as a leader in the Balkans. Due to all of this, the Single Serbia parliamentary group will support and vote in favour of all proposed laws on the agenda of today's session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64926	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Slavica Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64927	I thank the chairman. Dear ministers, respected guests from the ministry, respected fellow MPs, I will begin my presentation with a law that is very important from the aspect of the economy, which is the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance, under which from the New Year's contribution rate for PIO, based on the income paid by the employer, will be reduced by 0.5%. In particular, this would mean that the employer pays contributions at an 11.5% rate, instead of the 12% so far, while the employee would continue to pay 12% of the income. In this way, less fiscal burden on labour-based income is ensured, on the one hand, and business costs for employers are reduced. By increasing the non-taxable share from 15.300 to 16.300 dinars, as well as reducing the contribution for PIO from 0.5% to employers, the state continues to reduce taxes on profits from 62% to 61%. Otherwise, the Fiscal Council of Serbia also pointed out that from an economic point of view a reduction in the fiscal burden of profit is very important and that the priority at this time, in particular by improving the competitiveness of the domestic labour force and promoting employment and investment of the economy. This objective can be achieved either by reducing the social contribution rate or by increasing the non-taxable censorship. The fiscal council also suggested that the non-taxable census be increased by a much larger amount. However, it is certain that the assessment, if the Ministry of Finance has also made the amount that can be submitted at this time, is carefully proposed. According to the draft budget, the finance ministry estimates that by reducing the rate of contribution for mandatory PIO on the employer's burden, there will be a decrease in budget revenues by around 9.8 billion dinars. These are serious funds when I talk about reducing budget revenues, but the results of these measures are estimated to depreciate this figure. It is also similar to that of the Union of Employers that the state should step forward much more boldly to reduce labour pressure, as the necessary disbursement is made to a greater extent, which would have a significant impact on the rise of domestic investment. It is also similar, very significant, these are measures aimed at encouraging employment. As of 1 January 2020, companies that increase the number of employees and employ non-working persons in 2019 will receive an exemption of 70% of the income tax and contributions for PIO, and over the next two years the release will be reduced to 65%. These legal solutions will act as an incentive measure on economic operators to employ a number of persons of certain categories, i.e. for an employer who has established a working relationship with a qualified newly employed person, provided he does not reduce the number of employees since the beginning of the year. For us from the SDPS, knowledge, education and incentive are of paramount importance, which further stimulates it. In particular, I mean companies dealing with innovation activities, which are recognised by this law as extremely important, because incentives, i.e. The exemption from tax and contribution for 36 months for the founder is an extremely important incentive that will contribute to strengthening entrepreneurship and give a chance to smart and entrepreneurship people who have had enough in Serbia to start their own business, which so far has not existed. Given that this law proposes the introduction of an exemption from the payment of contributions on the basis of the earnings of new employees, in addition to the newly established companies carrying out innovative work, the proposed legislative solution is expected to contribute to the establishment of economic operators in particular in the said activity. Also, the measure relating to the reduction of the contribution rate for PIO based on earnings aims to contribute to the creation of favourable conditions of adjudication through the decommissioning of business entities, which also encourages their creation by reducing the labour price, creates preconditions to improve the competitiveness of economic operators. Over the next year, at least 5,000 workers could reach the job. One of the statements made by the finance minister, Mr Sinisha Malia, indicated that in the following year, thanks to these measures, we will reach a single-digit percentage of the unemployed, and today we have heard, and of course, this is a very significant fact that we are already at a single-digit rate. Therefore, I believe that these proposed solutions will make a significant contribution in the coming year to making this percentage as much repair as possible and SDP MPs will support the proposal for solutions contained in this law. The second law I want to speak specifically about is the bill on amendments and additions to the PIO. Given that this law touches 24% of the population in the Republic of Serbia, because it is the very population that is the beneficiary of the pension fund. What is very important is a very common question, why does it always need to coordinate the pension system, why do permanent changes, and why are pensioners always the ones who are hit by some new reforms? The mandatory PIO system was developed in postwar years I mean World War II, when the age structure of the population was more favourable. When I say more favourably, I think the population was younger then and the relationship between insurance and users was much more favourable. As a result, there are many positive solutions to this system from the conditions of retirement, the way of reckoning, the height of pensions and the like. However, with a change in demographic structure, with a worse economic situation and a decline in employment levels, this system has begun to fall into crisis, so that in the early 1990s there is a deficit in financing pension payments and a series of other rights that secures this type of insurance. The challenges facing the pension system are characteristic not only for Serbia, but for almost all European countries, so that even developed countries in Western Europe are facing them. Life and the environment constantly require new measures that lead to the improvement of the pension system, primarily through more realistic parameters. Increasing the retirement age, which was more consistent with the extension of the life span, economic development and international trends, focusing on the re-activity of the person with reduced work capacity, including new aspects of the insurance of voluntary pension funds, were all measures implemented during the previous period. However, what this legal solution brings and what is extremely important is that the key change refers to defining the formula for harmonising pensions, the period in which the coordination will be carried out, as well as the parameters to be taken into account to determine the percentage of harmonisation. A successful completion of the fiscal consolidation process whose component was also an improvement in the pension system created the possibility of increasing pensioners' income and ensuring real growth of their standards. The draft law provides for pensions to be coordinated according to the so-called so-called “retirement” from 2020. Swiss formula, i.e. that the percentage of pension adjustments is obtained according to the formula covering the sum of 50% growth, earnings in the previous year and 50% of consumer prices in the same period. As an observed period is taken in June 2018 and 1 July 2019, the reason for taking these 12 months is that data from the Republic Statistics Office are obtained at the earliest 50 days for the last month, so that if we observe the calendar year from 1 January 2019 to 31 December 2019, it would not be possible to make a new calculation and this law would not enter into force on 1 January 2020. The definition of the formula for harmonising pensions, the period during which the coordination will take place, as well as the parameters to be taken into account for the determination of the percentage of compliance for the purpose, shall be to ensure the primary existence of a clear, predictable way of harmonising pensions. Then, to raise pensions to a certain extent, it is related to wage growth and to increase the real value of pensions, and thus to pensioners' standards, which is extremely important. And the last, but very important is to preserve financial stability and a sustainable way of financing pension payments, as well as other pension and disability insurance rights. Given that pensioners account for over 24% of Serbia's population, it is clear how important the proposed changes are to improve the economic position of this category of population in society, as well as the importance for society in general. The proposed bill extends the scope of categories that have the right to family pension, equating the right of marriage with an extramarital community. The right to a family pension may be granted by a spouse or an out-of-marriage partner if the marriage or the non-marriage community lasted at least three years. I believe that this solution removes a great injustice against persons who are usually, for very justified reasons, unable to establish a marriage union, but their way of life in no way deviates from a marriage governed by the law, and thus the rights of an outlived partner could not be regulated in any way so far. In Serbia, it lives in an extramarital community of 57,500 people over the age of 50. What is very important, and what I would especially point out, is that the family pension under the new law we are talking about today can also be achieved by a spouse from a divorced marriage or an out-of-marriage partner after the end of life in the community, if the court ruling provides them with the right to endure. The existence of an out-of-marriage community and maintenance obligations shall be laid down in the out-of-party procedure. Why do I want to point this out in particular? We are witnessing poor statistics and tragic events related to domestic violence, especially here, I mean violence against women. Women who are at a higher risk of violence are precisely economically dependent women, namely shame and economic dependence are the main obstacles to the reporting of domestic violence. No one should suffer violence or deal with violence. We are witnessing frequent statements of the victims that it is usually too late to change now after so many years, that it is too late that in the '50s or '60s, when there is a disease, and there is no work experience, they make decisions that deprive you of existence, all of these are the reasons why women choose to deal with violence until perhaps tragic outcome. This measure that extends the scope of categories that have the right to family pension, that and a divorced spouse, who has a maintenance solution, has the right to inherit a family pension, is an indirect contribution to the prevention of violence against women. When we talk about the character of a family pension as rights used by an outlived marriage partner, and from now on by the out-of-marriage, of which women make up 95% of the users, a small share of persons living in an out-of-marriage community, only 2%, so that a significant increase in the number of family pension beneficiaries on this basis cannot be expected within the shorter and medium term. It is very important here to stress that there is a condition for exercising the right to a family pension, i.e. the duration of the marriage, i.e. the extramarital community for a minimum of three years in order to abuse this right, which will further limit the increase in the number of family censors. Mandatory pension and disability insurance forms the basis of a pension system in the Republic of Serbia and is based on the ongoing financing of pensions, which is the case in most European countries. This means that all persons who perform some work, and on this basis earn income, allocate the mandatory part for pension funds from which pensions of current beneficiaries are financed, thus obtaining the opportunity to exercise the right to their own pension after meeting the relevant conditions. The basic characteristic of the pension system is the long-term impact that results in any change in this system directly affecting both current insurance and users and the position of future generations. We certainly have contributed to these proposals better positions of current insurance and users, as well as to the position of future generations. The SDPS MPs will support the laws on the agenda of today's session in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64928	Thank you. The word is by MP Dejan Radenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64929	Thank you, Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, MPs, respected ministers, the SPS today supports the Republic of Serbia's 2020 budget, and it is logical that it will support both amendments and additions to the laws necessary to implement the budget in the right way that it has been adopted. Therefore, this debate is not about whether we need these laws, but about what their effects are, or where we should go in the years to come. The Socialists are unlike many parties, a party with decades of experience, and we know how important it is to watch much longer than one mandate, is thus achieving sustainability, a special sustainability in constructive state-of-the-art political work. We are pleased to have laws that allow us to finally achieve what is the core of every party's left, social justice, but not at the expense of the development of the state and economic growth. Today, we are happy that the years of austerity have led to the fact that today, without fear, we can restore the social functions of the state and that it is noticeable that we are going towards a better system. In other words, it is a responsible social policy to share what was created, unlike many who liked to share what did not exist. We've never hid that people who have worked fairly for years and built our country are extremely important to us and that the SPS is their true representative. We never gave up that our pensioners are a group that should spend its days in peace without fear of poverty. Even when it was unpopular, or when it was very popular, we did not race to give or meet unreal requirements. If there was anything left of our policy leader, it's reality, and when they think real, then you don't have a problem having a lot of unfulfilled promises. The Swiss model for harmonising pensions and the end of temporary reductions is a sign that we have gone out to medium-term sustainable and that in the years that follow we are still waiting for more work on a fairer system where PIO will, as far as possible, be self-sustainable, but also where clear messages will be sent to it, in the decades to follow, so that those who today are under the strain of labour can plan their age. We're lucky to be able to reduce our contribution rates. Only an economy that is not undermining its wings can give us a social state and have social justice in well-being rather than poverty. Healthy economy requires a healthy tax policy, especially one that encourages new employment, innovation and investment. The set of measures that we are adopting today and these laws that are today, at least as far as this first search is concerned, are another part of the major budget reform package and they bring us new jobs, especially jobs that will bring bigger salaries in the private sector, so that they have to pay bigger salaries, of course in the real sector of the logic of reason triumphs, and the logic of economic and social demagogy has been defeated in Serbia. Salary growth is certain in the private sector. The minimum wage will grow, and we are pleased to have a Serbia in which the minimum is much more dignified than it was. The reliefs that are part of these changes and additions will lead to the growth of wages in the private sector, as I have already stated. It's impossible that it doesn't happen because the measurements are well designed and we can say that it's something that's been going on for years. In other words, people trust us because we stand behind our own actions, as well as behind the joint work of this congregation majority and the government that this majority educates. Also, wage growth in the public sector is certain. The public sector is not a cost. A good country is a prerequisite for having a good economy. There is no good country for which they work highly educated for salaries that are slightly higher than the minimum wage, in conditions that are unworthy. You can't have good health care, education, defense, police, state administration, and expect everything from them, and give them nothing. Of course, we can expect that it will return well, because our people across Serbia are free to say, both hardworking and working people. If you thought I wouldn't traditionally call myself and repeat what used to be our attitude, the attitude of earlier years, and this majority, you were wrong. It's the only way we can show that we knew what it was like to move from word to action and what the reasons for faith in this ruling majority are. For example in 2016, I will list several parts of the discussion held by the SPS – the state is not a trotinette that can be easily stopped and then turned in a different direction, without any serious consequences happening, except for a bit of spilly sole. We were able to reverse the ship that was going in the wrong direction and instead of towards the icebergs, it's going in the direction of a calm and safe sea. Our confessions come from institutions that are very interested in our budget. Not because someone loves the government and not because someone cares about the trustees of our country and their interests. When the IMF tells you that the settings are real and the realizations are encouraging, then that assessment comes from someone who doesn't have any political or any other reason to make our reality better. There's a lot of good expectations. We have balanced finances and we can already think about the development item. The perspective of reducing tax rates and extending the tax base opens. We will be able to look at the whole picture, and from that holistic review, we also have appropriate strategies, policies and measures that we have at the time of our exit from the fire-extinguishing state, and sometimes they seem to be a distant and uncertain future. Also, the time ends when we were limited in support of vulnerable groups. For example in 2013, this budget has a solid basis, so we said then, this budget has a solid basis in changes to system laws. The effects of their implementation will have a beneficial fact on the budget, taking into account all the reductions in budgetary inflows and all the increases that will arise. Some of the changes that are said to create a hole in the budget were supposed to improve the overall economic environment, the number of transactions above all, to convince many companies that more is worth doing legally than in the gray zone. Unlike some recipes from past times, the state does not set itself up as someone holding a whip and imposing dragon penalties for tax violations, but sets up a sound system. The introduction of order in this area could result in a significant increase in the budget revenues that we are currently missing, as many are determined not to enter at all or to a large extent do not go into legal business. The current majority is determined to slowly reverse that direction by offering an attractive environment instead of a threat. Maybe it's a short term of one year to get full credibility and the tax revenues start to generate and expand bases and through a larger scale of business, but that's what's going to happen anyway, again, I'm talking about 2013, as the budget has been discussed. If there is any guarantee that this majority will work without wandering, that it will carry out its own policies with credibility, we must also mention the core role of the SAA, which has for years highlighted the principles of the social market economy, consensus and the conduct of reasonable economic policies that will not go from one extreme to another. The stability and awareness of individuals, families or local communities will not fall into misery if the winds on the market change, is currently the biggest resource Serbia has, and it is not sufficiently recognised. As we are now on track to start running reasonable policies based on these premises, it is hard to believe that this will not be recognised by those who are filling the budget. The basis for our optimism, again I note that it is from 2013, is actually better said for realism and there is one in other areas. What some see as a flaw, it's that we won't fire people who create value, demand, after all, full budget, without looking at alternatives, and especially without looking at the verminity of such an approach will prove to be a good policy. There is no basis for believing that the mechanical cutting of public sector jobs will result in anything other than a weaker service for citizens, a decline in effective demand and the cost of firing and re-employment that is greater than savings. What makes sense is that in the existing mass of wages mechanisms are implemented that will stimulate high effects and that will happen. Instead of taking a fiscal satire to treat the patient by making his condition worse, we suggest that the public sector take everything that is good in private and add to this specificities of the purpose of each of the institutions and public sector organisations. Instead of firing 1,000 people, we advocate that these people are more efficient in using, that those who do not see their place in public administration through the prism of the satisfaction of citizens, who in fact are in this public sector and finance, are sent a message that in the public sector wages are earned and that opportunities for abuses are minimised. This pawning isn't fashion, it's not news, because we stand for these principles for many years. At the very end, I can say that we are not and will not address an imaginary or real political opponent, but we want to give citizens every time arguments that we are not changing our attitudes, that we are behind what is the reason why the only right responsible left in Serbia lies in the SAA, from beginning to end, and that we will continue without big words, but with responsible behaviour, responsible policies we create great works. What I would like only to draw your attention to, dear ministers, and when the debate is in particular, my colleague Stefana Miladinović and I have submitted an amendment that is in line with what I think will happen today at the government's session, to adopt a bill on amendments and additions to the Transport Safety Act, that and this segment that remains unresolved, since we are with our own initiatives and issues that we had when it comes to the bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Taxes on Use, Holding and Wearing Goods, where this today's proposal solves the dilemma in the Tax Administration which was about the collection of how many pieces, what pieces and interpretations of one year like this, others. I was asking a parliamentary question back then, and I'm glad it's being resolved, we're going one step at a time and we're solving one problem at a time with the common forces. Thank you again for your attention. My colleagues who will speak in the next part of the debate will also have the opportunity to say additional views under these other laws that are under this first joint review. Thank you for your attention one more time.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64930	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Djuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64931	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, honourable fellow MPs, distinguished citizens, today's debate is sort of a continuation of the budget session, because we are discussing the laws following the Budget Law. In fact, through this set of laws, certain measures of the Government, which are foreseen by the economic policy set out in the Budget Law, are technically implemented. First of all, as regards the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration and the Property Tax Act, whose amendments are proposed, they are generally acceptable and can be welcomed, because of the regulation of electronic correspondence with the Tax Administration and for the release of citizens' obligations to submit certain tax applications, for example in inheritance and gift taxes. Of course, it will be necessary to address the problems of implementing laws that contain digitisation measures, especially in smaller areas. But in principle, these are good measures, we'll see through the debate on the law in particular. As regards the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance, there is now one of the first measures to be provided for to reduce by 70% the basis for the income tax of the newly-inhabited taxpayer, so the employed and unfortunately not fully explained to the public the concept of a newly-inhabited obligor, i.e. the employee, so that speculation appears. We certainly do not want populists to spread fear of migrants or impatience towards refugees from former Yugoslavia, because Serbia and its economy need every qualified worker, whether it is a domestic educated 21st-century worker or someone who came to Serbia from, say, Republika Srpska, because the New Sad University is full of students who come from Republika Srpska to Novi Sad for quality education from computer sciences and many of them remain in this fast-growing business branch that has their own expansion, that is, the circumstances, from the middle from which I come, which is Novi Sad. It is certainly in the government to create environments on the labour market, to absorb all this work offer and employ everyone. As regards the contribution to pension-involvement insurance, for which the proposed changes are proposed to cut by half a percentage point in the part of the pension-inhabitation contribution to the employer's burden, we have some criticism here. They primarily concern the overall economic policies declared by the Budget Law, because we think this reduction could have been greater. Because if there weren't excessively high wages in the public sector, and I'm going to explain why I think they're being excessively increased, which is where this excess could have been seen, this reduction could have been sharper, at least by another percentage point, which would have charged the economy by almost 13 billion dinars, as a total non-selective subsidy to the entire economy in terms of reducing labour entry costs. This salary increase is therefore necessary to comment once again, as it speaks about why an insufficient reduction, in our opinion, is proposed, in the opinion of the Modern Serbian Party. So this salary increase goes ahead of the expected nominal GDP growth rate, it's about 5.5%, the real one will be about 3.5%, if inflation is added, that's that, and that's the only indicator of the budget where, let's say, the projected blood count of public finances gets red. Only on this one indicator that, behold, was not done in school and was not done in books. When public sector wages rise at a rate higher than the nominal economic growth rate, economic textbooks say that this is how unearthed future income is spent, and this brings unnecessary future fiscal risk to our newly consolidated public finances. The additional problem is that this increase is done on a flat-rate basis, by sectors, and at the same time we do not have a defined pay grade and we do not have that long-awaited analysis of public administration employment reform, in the public sector, in public enterprises. We do not know as a state how public sector employees should be resuscitated. We are addressing this problem by banning employment, which is still in place, so we have overall surpluses, but at the same time, deficits in important public sector positions. At the same time, the employment ban has been bypassed by temporary and temporary jobs, as the number of such workers has increased by 50% since 2014. So where there were 10, now there are 15. In this way, savings from such a measure were expected to fall short. The fiscal council also commented that long-term strategic measures of structural reforms, notably public sector reforms and, above all, public enterprise reforms, are lagging behind in the fiscal strategy. We must agree as a parliamentary group of the Modern Serbia Party to these remarks, because we have heard little about long-term reform plans, for example, "Electroprivred Serbia". We have recently received an analysis of the problems in the "Electroprivreda Serbia" business, and it has been found that insufficient investment by this public enterprise has made it the largest environmental pollutant in Serbia. There is a frantic fact that only one thermo power plant, Kostolac B, emits 130 thousand tons of sulfur dioxide annually, which is equal to the total annual emissions of all German thermopower plants. So, we are followed by measures of reforms that will have to lead to internal savings in many public enterprises, primarily in the EPS, and probably by a more serious increase in electricity prices, which will not be fair to citizens if public sector reforms and these public enterprises remain. Power collection has already been announced since December 1st, and it will partly spend some of the additional money in the family budget due to some tax reliefs and an increase in the minimum labour price. However, despite all of this, we resorted to a simple, general, linear sectoral salary increase, and that prevented this incentive measure of reducing contributions to pension-involvement insurance from being sharper, bigger and better encouraged by the economy. Unfortunately, all these factors that hinder economic growth continue to stand, and Serbia's economy needs exactly greater incentives of this kind, above all, to fiscal redundancies of labour. Because while these fiscal burdens on our work are less than regions, we do not actually have other competitive advantages, because we cannot praise the excessive investment and crafts capital available in the economy, we do not even have excessive legal certainty, so we are forced to subsidise investors in Chapter 23 of the EU accession process that deals with the rule of law, we are not far from closing that chapter. So this rate of fiscal redundancy is one of the few that we have left to encourage our economy. That we need stronger economic growth that could encourage these measures to speak and data when comparing Serbia and the region of Central and Eastern Europe: in 2008 to 2019, Serbia grew 19%, the region of Central and Eastern Europe, so the countries around 34%, means 19:34%. The first half of 2019 - Serbia grew 2.8%, Central and Eastern Europe 4%. We cannot call in economic growth for one-off phenomena when we had economic growth, because the previous year was catastrophic, because the drought brought GDP into the agricultural sector, so the next year measured with such a low base had a huge growth, or when we had a more favourable conukture on the euro-zone markets, when the price of oil derivatives went down, so it went to our economy on hand, because it actually reduced the entry costs and represented some non-selective incentive measure from the environment for the whole Serbian economy. All these factors are now gone and not expected. On the contrary. So the trends are already in the euro area and in the region are turned. As a result, in the Party of Modern Serbia, we believe that a measure of slight increase in public sector earnings should be applied, as much as the nominal GDP growth allows, so let's say, 5.5%-6%, and that it is used through a smaller increase to give up parts of fiscal income through a greater reduction in fiscal burdens on labour. The measures that are good are that for another year, the new founding employer will also be released three years from the start-up date of the founder's contribution and the new employee's income will be freed from pension-inhabitation contributions for the next three years, and 100%, 95% and 85% per year. We'll see how much these measures are going to be worth to the economy. It would have been better if they had been accompanied by an additional reduction in excise duties, primarily oil derivatives. Unfortunately, this was lagging out in the budget and it will be felt by the economic growth which, according to the Blue Serbia Party, is unreally projected to 4% for next year, not only because of these, some of our missed opportunities to introduce incentive measures, but also because of the environment that is slowly already heading towards recession. The second law, which I would like to refer to in the discussion, is the draft law amending and supplementing the Social Insurance Contributions Act and the most controversial member called the Self-Restraint Test, colloquially. The aim of this test, which introduces the law, is to determine whether a person performing a business has the status of entrepreneurs, so as to be a legal person, an entrepreneur in a contractual relationship with a job manager, or whether the nature of that job is such and the way in which that person is, in fact, employed by the job manager, in which case the whole value of the work done should be burdened with fiscal taxes and contributions to earnings. We had a lot on the Finance Committee yesterday. In the meantime, we also got the position of the Digital Community Association, because it is quite clear that this one test of independence is directed and aimed at increasing tax collection by IT entrepreneurs. The nature of this test of independence indicates, for example, that this is not intended to improve the taxation of other cobwebs, so, lawyers, for example, it is not the aim of such a test of independence. The digital community has sent us some of their amendments that we have submitted, and we will discuss them in particular. What I'm just saying here in the principle debate is that the Digital Community has no problem with paying the tax, but that there is a problem if their tax obligations are to be determined by inaccurate criteria which will be subjective to the subjective interpretation of tax inspectors who may be sufficiently familiar with the specificities of IT activity and way of doing business. Let me remind you, let's say one of the criteria is the number of working hours in a certain period of time that was spent working for one client. It's in IT activity, with IT entrepreneurs quite hard to measure. It's not precisely defined whether it's meant for eight hours a day, so it's listed from 0 to 24 a certain number of days a year, at any time. Therefore, the criteria are such that practically every IT entrepreneur can on this test of independence and fall and pass and we are afraid that we will open the problem of legal uncertainty which will result in the following: the IT entrepreneur will negotiate a business of a certain value, after some time the tax inspector will be brought down on a test of independence and will then retroactively be in charge of paying some taxes and contributions, which knocks him down completely, in advance, the financial predictability of his business and legal certainty. We understand that it is necessary to curb the gray economy, but no creative measure on the creation of legal bases and creative mathematical models for tax collection is as effective as restoring citizens' trust in the country. When I say restoring citizens' confidence in the state, then I think, first of all, of a transparent display of public finances spending, that citizens are certain that their tax money has been spent exactly as much and exactly as they think it is best in the public interest which and the interest of those citizens, that they have no doubt that the tax dinar has been embezzled, that 22 billion have been broken into into fines, penals and judicial damages that the state pays, but that they know exactly where each of their tax dollars goes. When we have the trust of citizens back in the country, then many problems in tax collection and in curbing the gray economy will disappear, because citizens will know that their way, that their kindergarten, that the quality of their school depends on the tax dinar that we all have to pay and which is cut fair and fair and equal to all and that the state is not one mother and one stepmother. So, the parliamentary group of the Modern Serbia Party will further put objections to this independence test in agreement with representatives of the Digital Community, whose amendments we will submit and the details will be discussed when there is a debate in particular. As for the debate in principle, by the Modern Serbian Party so much for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64932	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64933	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I welcome the fact that unemployment has fallen below 10%. This means that income increases in the PIO fund, health insurance revenues, local self-government revenues due to salary tax, etc. What's most important to our citizens is that when unemployment is low, then the diaries grow, then there's a fairer distribution of money between capital and labour force. So when you have high unemployment, then the employer can choose, can give lower diaries, but when, thanks to investments and new employment, low unemployment occurs, there will be a shortage of labour force. When you have less labour, then it's an employer who wants to have a high-quality worker who has to pay more with his will than he would pay if unemployment was 25% as much as it was during these yellow accidents that criticize us as quickly as possible, we don't solve all the problems that occurred during their reign, or the ones they made. I believe that low employment will reach higher pensions, because pension funds will be full, will also lead to better health services and higher salaries in the health sector because the Republic Health Insurance Fund will also be fuller, will have more money, and will also be able to raise salaries in health care. Also, I believe that new hospitals will be built, that they will be restored or refurbished. It's all coming from production. During privatisation, or plants say grabbing, which was careless, those who boycott the sessions fired several hundred thousand people. These several thousand people were not fired from the public sector, the public sector grew, and those who were supposed to support the public sector, they were out of work, they were left without pay, without dignity and their households, their new generations, sons and daughters could not serve as an example of being able to work fairly and for this honest work to be rewarded. Deprived of dignity, they were lurking in the suburbs without a job. The new government, thanks to its investments, has, above all, employed a large number of people in production. As a result, the coverage of imports of exports is also a result. The export coverage during these accidents was barely 50%, now it jumped to 70 % and some %. What is looking forward to is the fact that a significant part of imports relate to imports of raw materials and equipment in new investments, which encourages and gives new hope that these 10% will soon be unemployed, but only those who do not want to work like those who boycott the National Assembly's session. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I can understand the increase in the fee for RTS subscription. I can understand that it's necessary, but I won't vote for it. It is my personal attitude towards the editorial position in RTS and its director, Dragan Bujosevic. So I asked RTS a question about her relationship with the Darekt Media, that is, Dragan Gilas's firm. I received an answer to the question on July 25th, in which Dragan Bujosevic said, among other things, that he had contracted with the "Darrekt Media" for the transfer of sporting events, that he was buying sports rights, has a contract with the "Darekt Media" as an authorised legal person, that the legal face, I don't know, by the International Basketball Federation, etc. is authorized. The subject of this Treaty are the transfers of the European Championship, etc. Those rights were paid for by RTS, but he refused to give me information on what kind of business it was. He said it was a secret, that the parties agreed that the contents of those contracts would be classified. Now, imagine the Public Service, the business secret, that's what they've indicated. It says – the parties agreed that the adopted data and information regarding the realisation of the contract was a business secret. So, the public service of RTS has a business secret with Dragan Gilas, which the MPs who have to vote for the rate to increase, that in such a way that this type of subscription is greater, cannot learn the contents of their contracts with Dragan Gilas, or his firm, because, behold, they agreed to be a business secret for us ordinary mortals. When it's a business secret, I don't want to vote for the secrets of Dragan Bujosevic and Dragan Gilas, who, while running power, was the owner of all seconds on RTS, at Study B, God help me and Pink, who broadcast his shows on RTS, broadcast on PINK, broadcast on all televisions. For example, this "48 hours wedding" has been broadcast I don't know how many 50, 100, 200 episodes and they're all paid by RTS. While he owned television seconds of advertising space, he was the editor-in-chief of all media. So the media that didn't broadcast his seconds and his commercials couldn't count on him getting the right to advertise at all. On the one hand, he was renting advertising space, on the other hand, printed and electronic media were blackmailed, because if you think you're getting ads from the most important companies and products, you had to go out and meet Dragan Gilas, i.e. hand him your advertising space and your seconds. So Dragan Gilas, while chairman of the DS executive board, was therefore the top party official of the party that held power while he was mayor, or Belgrade's thief, while making a public debt in the city of Belgrade of 1.2 billion euros, at the same time gaining on his private companies' income of 619m euros. He was very successful in private companies thanks to the monopoly and RTS, for seconds over the media he sucked money out of. So he was successful in private business, while controlling the content of the programme and no one was allowed to say anything against him and Boris Tadic. That kind of business of his was a sort of media control. He could censor whoever he wanted, which he did. Today, the man, who still has contracts with RTS, and recently there was an arrest, when Dragan Gilas, who was not arrested, suddenly began to rebel over the arrest of the company director he claimed was no longer his own. So today there are also businesses of Dragan Gilas with media houses. Hence, it is surprising that RTS did not defend itself against the incursion of the mob, which calls itself the opposition, the Alliance for Serbia, did not defend RTS, at least not enough for me, or defend itself just like that. I even think that some of them in RTS, especially editors, who are even in connection with the leaders of the opposition, are even married, that they wanted this intrusion to happen. I'm not convinced it wasn't agreed and ordered. So, Dragan Gilas argues that the television in which he earned millions and millions, that this television is not objective, although no editor, has been changed by any editor. They're all from the time these yellow cockroaches ruled. Also, Dragan Bujosevic is certainly not our frame. I believe we didn't even hire a porter at RTS. And today we have to raise taxes that Dragan Bujosevic has enough money to deal with Gilas and declare it a business secret. That kind of RTS behavior, that there must always be enough money for them, where they can make the losses that the state will cover, is unacceptable to me. It is certainly the 619m euros that Dragan Gilas has received from RTS. In the end, that I don't do too much RTS, because I certainly won't vote to give them more money, I think they need to earn something on the market, not go up on the pockets of ordinary citizens. In the end, let me say something about pension and disability insurance of farmers and again to appeal that a debt of 160 billion just for PIO insurance of farmers must be regulated, for example, to be sold for 5% of the value. In this way, we'll get new money, but some people who don't pay PIO insurance for now, when they regulate old debts, will start paying PIO insurance again, aware that they'll welcome the right to have pensions. In this way, we will have two types of income – income because we have regulated old debts and, on the other hand, we will have current income every year because certain insurance companies will again decide to pay PIO insurance, aware that after 15 years they will exercise the right to retire, which at this point is slightly less than social aid, but many farmers, not wanting to sell the country to be social cases, will be defined as paying and to enter the minimum pension with dignity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64934	Thank you. Honorable MPs, according to members 27 and 205. Rules of Procedure, I set a break until 4:00 p.m., when we continue to work in the session's session on asking parliamentary questions to the government on the last Thursday of the month. (The Faith of Radeta: When does the work of this session continue?) ) The work of this session continues at 1600 hours, and when the parliamentary questions are completed, you will be informed of the continuation of the session for tomorrow.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64935	Dear People's MPs, we approach the question of MPs in time from 1600 to 19.00 hours, according to article 205. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Before we move on to ask parliamentary questions, let me remind you of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly relating to the way MPs are asked. The presentation of the MP asking the question cannot last longer than three minutes. After answering the parliamentary question, you have the right to comment for a maximum of three minutes on the answer to your question or to ask an additional question and to give a statement of response for a maximum of two minutes. No replicas and references are allowed to the infringement of the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with Article 216 and accordingly, please submit applications for questions. First they will be told by MPs who do not belong to any of the MPs, and then MPs from the smallest to the largest parliamentary group. We're moving on to asking MPs questions. The first to be reported is Ambassador Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64936	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the honourable representatives of the government, my first question concerns the social and health rights of religious school students. In fact, I was a participant in the adoption of laws on churches and religious communities in 2006, and we felt that we had finally eliminated the injustice that lasted all that communist time in terms of the rights of religious school students. For several years, however, we have not faced the problem for almost a decade. In recent months, I have been getting from the field of appeal on the subject that certain students of religious schools actually have a problem achieving their health and social rights because of certain memos or regulations that have come from the competent ministry. My question is why have we entered this problem and when and how we will deal with it, since we do not have the problem in the law, but clearly there are different interpretations of this issue regarding the understanding of the concept of what official schools are, or schools that work within the framework of the education system of the Republic of Serbia. My second question concerns when will it be considered or hope to abolish the public sector employment decision? First of all, I am interested in schooling, because I am, by the position of the chairman of the Education Committee, directed to everything in this area. Now we have so many accumulated problems from an enormously large number of temporary school employees, who are actually creating a concentration of non-quality and inability to motivate, inability, in fact, of quality affirmations, above all, teachers in these schools and opening up the possibility of different abuses of influence on these people, given their unresolved status in schools, which has been dramatically reflected in the quality of schools, i.e. in the education system. I think it would be of paramount importance to review this decision, whether in general, I suppose that would be the easiest and most effective, but if not, at least try to analyze the negative school-related reflections, where indeed, the negative consequences are very present.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64937	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Zoran Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64938	Dear MP, I am well aware and we have talked about this and I have talked to Minister Sarcevic, who is not here, and it is agreed with him that he will make the decision, given that the medres would enter the system and that they could acquire the right to social protection, we need them to be in the education system of the Republic of Serbia. We need only Minister Sarcevic to make the decision and, on his promise, we have had two meetings on the subject, the decision is expected to disappear very quickly and that moment these problems will disappear. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64939	Thank you. The President of the Government has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64940	Thank you. So, certainly as far as the first question of the social and health rights of students in religious schools is concerned, it is certainly something that we, if it was so far, have not been abolished by this government and, as the Government, have not at any time restricted the rights that have already been given in any area. We have always tried to extend these rights and thus improve the quality of life of all our citizens. As far as I understand it, you draw attention to individual problems, not as a systemic problem, and you certainly pass it on to me, so I will talk to Minister Sarčević and Minister Djordjevic, which are individual problems, so we will see what this is about and correct if there is a mistake on our part. As far as public sector employment is concerned, I will repeat for who knows which time, we will probably propose that at the end of this year the full abolition of this law, or that there is no longer a ban on public sector employment, but we will continue to retain the Employment Commission, because we must continue the control system, and certainly also through the central social insurance register CROSO, but also through the Government Commission, so that there will be no over-employment in various portfolios, not only within local self-government, but also within the framework of health homes, schools, all institutions within which public sector employment is involved. On the other hand, I repeat, the ban on public sector employment has never stood in the way that where additional personnel are needed in the sense that the lack of personnel compromises the level of service provided to citizens, that the commission does not allow employment. Only in the health sector did we hire 4,000 people over the last year. It's last year, and this year more and more. So, both medical workers, doctors, both nurses and technicians. We didn't really, except in exceptional circumstances, allow the employment of an additional administration, but the people who were there, taking care of patients, from the government's commission, were given employment permits. She's also in school. The biggest problem we have right now is in the social security system. That commission was doing a little slower or those arguments, the requests for new employment weren't good enough, but that's one problem I was talking to the team in the government two days ago, on Tuesday, and we agreed on a special meeting because we're missing 790 people. As far as education is concerned, so absolutely if there is a need and that need is explained, there is a space within the salary, so the salary budget is automatically going to be a employment permit, but all of this is going to be different again from January 1, 2020, where we're going to relax that we're keeping control so that there's no going back out of the budget and again the huge costs for which we all know how long it's taken us just to introduce it under some normal frameworks since 2014, and here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64941	Thank you. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64942	I thank you for your answers. So the question of the social and health rights of religious school students is systemic. In certain behaviours, we have cases of individuality, but it is systematic, because, as I said, some letters have gone from the competent ministry to social work centres that have been in some way unclear, even some who have said that this issue has not been resolved, and it is not settled because of the different interpretation of the law, because religious schools are then, under the Law on Religious Communities, exempt from the obligation of accreditation through accreditation bodies within the educational system of the Republic of Serbia, and there is just some sort of legal gap for religious schools that are legal and legitimate and have not passed the accreditation system of other schools. That is why only a interpretation or a certain act is needed here, as the minister said, the minister of education or the Ministry of Education, which will clearly confirm, so officially from these schools, that there is no different interpretation or possible abuse in selective behaviour on the ground. I am aware that this government does not have an ideological animosity towards religious schools, and this dissipates overall relations and therefore I believe that this will be safely approached in a positive solution, as I am pleased to announce that an initiative will be launched to lift the ban on employment in the public sector. I hope that by then we will take advantage of this possibility of exceptional or selective employment where there is a real need so that the school system does not suffer, as I have said in my previous presentation. My additional question concerns bookies near educational facilities. It's not the first time I've started this topic, but since we still haven't moved forward in terms of solving this problem, especially when I come from space or into space as a national MP, I come from New Pazar and Sandzak. Generally, we have a general mess there when it comes to bookies. Our unofficial information is that most bookies in Novi Pazar are illegal and without work permits, without certain conditions met, and what is obviously not information, but everyone can be convinced, is that there is no law of distance, the prescribed distance of bookies from schools in general, religious objects too. So this is something that becomes alarming and that we should face and get answers about why this lawlessness that is extremely harmful to our children, for youth in general.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64943	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64944	Good afternoon, everyone. And my respect. Let me say a few essential sentences concerning what Mr. Zukorlic said. The fact is, we don't recognize the kinds of education that aren't in our education system in system laws. It's both police and military and religious schools. This does not mean that we do not accept that there are students of age who attend and who can exercise other rights, and that is that in our three-way talks with the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs we regulate. What I have talked about several times with other religious communities, I will also have a meeting with the people of the Synod of Orthodox Church. The fact is that it would be good for all religious schools to sort of join the entire education system, which does not violate the basic essence of what they do, and this plan and the programme and the curricula relating to the religious part of the teaching is completely autonomous for people who deal with and education in the field of Orthodox, Catholic and Islamic sciences in the faith. On the other hand, there is also an obligation to balance the relationship of general education subjects. We have this big problem for these people. They are educated in these schools and claim to work as religious teachers. They're small fund-raisers. So these people are getting paid just as little as they are. At a small percentage, they can't make a career. If we offer them this option, not to touch what is called the basis of learning about faith, but to give this quality that applies to general education subjects, we allow all other bodies, and the National Educational Council and the Education Committee and everyone else who participates in it, so we legalize something that other countries do. Very often, in many countries of Europe, this very school has been joined by the system. So the system recognizes them. It would be good for those young people to go out to the labour market the next day, if they don't have a job as religious teachers. It's clearly my suggestion to everyone, so here's what I'm saying in public. I've talked about various communities several times, and we support the formation of institutions dealing with this education for religious purposes. The fact is that we are working with Catholic representatives to accredit studies in Subotica, which will work precisely on Catholic education. I'm 100% in favour of your request, and I don't think there's anyone to pray for, but to apply the law when it comes to objects that don't fit to be in areas that need to be covered by schools, and I absolutely support it. I think that's a great question. The inspections need to start doing their job and have a certain time and a warrant without any pardon. Whoever invested whatever it was broke the law. If allowed by the prime minister, I think it is very important, we talk about it all the time, especially my colleague Djukic Dejanovic and me, and it is about the story of hiring people who work in the education system. From the beginning, I declare it loud and clear that it is a system mistake, that they are misrecognizable as people who make up a bureaucratic part of that system, and these are free teaching norms that don't cost the state any more or less. They unwarrantedly found themselves in those pans and are now waiting for the ban to be unblocked. We have 20,000 young women who are capable of birth, who cannot start parenting because they will lose their right to permanent employment. I believe if we do, we'll have one baby boom in two years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64945	The word has been given to the People's Messenger Muamer Zukorlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64946	Thank you. The point of me and my colleague and I trust all the MPs to be here in the National Assembly is not to forget where we came from and who chose us. That's why I don't have the strength to keep my mouth shut about everything that's going on, and for that reason, I'm using every opportunity to update the necessary topics, topics that affect citizens, and actually this time I'm asking the question, especially the peripheral spaces of the country, especially Sandzak space. I can't stay calm while I watch buses full of young people leaving the bus stop on the west and, too, as I can't reconcile with my city, Novi Pazar, Sandzak being on those drug, crime sites, various circuits with certain structures on the place, these topics that we mention and others we don't mention. That is why I am glad that we, MPs, regardless of what parties they belonged to, can have allies in the government and have forces and in the competent ministries that sometimes, whether they belong to authorities or positions, we recognize some burning topics as so important that we should overcome our party differences, our party programmes, our needs to have points among voters. I think it is very important and, in fact, the overall work of the Members of the Justice and Reconciliation Party is going in this direction, but I am pleased that we can also have dialogue here in Parliament and ask the bitter and sweeter questions openly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64947	Thank you. The People's Messenger George Komlensky has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64948	Thank you, Chairman. I'll ask you a few questions. First question – what was the result of the Law on the conversion of residential loans indexed in Switzerland? So how many users of these loans have taken advantage of this possibility that we have made possible by adopting this law, and how many housing users have been defined to continue the conduct of litigation and eventually, if at least certain first-degree rulings are known in the meantime, how do these litigation disputes continue? The next question – will the working group on improving election conditions accept the initiative presented by the Socialist Movement during public debates and these talks under, how can I say, not even cover, but let's, with the participation of the EU's representatives, who has proposed to amend the legislation in this direction in order to sanction any payment of commercial services to the media, which are not registered in the Republic of Serbia, by participants participating in the election campaign at the time the elections are held? We had to make this proposal in this way, because right now we're in a situation where there's some kind of attitude that we don't agree with, which is that REM doesn't have an ingenuity over so-called. cross-border media and that the commission, which will form the Serbian Assembly, will also have no authority over them. So, simply any kind of control won't exist on what under commercial conditions is broadcast from such media, and frankly I don't see any justification for allowing political participants in the political race, in the Republic of Serbia, funds, including citizens of the Republic of Serbia, to spend raising the budget and rating and raising the level of efficiency of those not registered in the Republic of Serbia and not paying taxes to the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64949	Thank you. The word has Minister Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64950	Dear People's MPs, Your Honor, Mr. Komlensky, about the question you asked. This is, of course, an interesting and complex issue for the Republic of Serbia because now for the first time, this National Assembly will have its own control over the work of certain, let me say, the media, because the supervisory board that the Assembly needs to form will effectively monitor the written media, the Internet during the election campaign, which, I may say, was quite unregulated matter and in some previous period, and these are the initial steps that should provide better regulation of this matter and, of course, better supervision of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia over what is usually happening in the media. What is good is that REM will soon, hopefully, adopt a regulation that will define the behaviour of actors in the election campaign, especially those concerning public service, and in such a way as to improve the way electoral conditions are adapted to all participants in the elections, to all lists that participate in the election campaign and, of course, with the selection of three missing members. I think the Assembly Committee on Culture and Media has launched a new competition that will elect three missing members, in accordance with the law. I think we will also have REM in full capacity and improve everything we have talked about, although these laws have been unchanged since 2012. So, all those who were adopted by 2012 are still valid today. Your question is something we'll talk about anyway, because you're right. There are certain media that, somehow in this sense, are not subject to some kind of control of Serbian citizens through independent regulatory bodies, but taking care that we are the democratic society that wants, not in any way, to choke the freedom of the media, not in any way restricting the work of the media, just to give them the opportunity to work. This does not mean that one medium should also violate the laws of the Republic of Serbia in any way or not be in the same status as all other media in Serbia. In my view, we should have equality for everyone, we should all have equal rights, equal opportunities, and through the rule of law we should also have the supervision of citizens of the Republic of Serbia and through independent regulatory bodies and through this home, through the National Assembly, and the bodies it chooses, which serve to control the work of the media, or control the fulfilment of the legal conditions that apply to both their formal establishment and their work and equal treatment and the representation of all those as prescribed... So this does not mean mixing into editorial policy, but this means equal availability for everyone and the possibility for the National Assembly to express its opinion on it, even if it becomes known through these bodies and regulators, or REM, which will have the possibility that, as it can with public service, as it can with RTS, it can do with any other broadcaster in the country. So we want to consider your proposal as well. I'm not sure how fast it's going to be possible to do that, to tell you the truth, since it's complex matter. We want to consult on this and with the National Assembly, but we certainly count on that initiative, or, as someone who runs this task force, I'll call you, so let's see what we can do specifically in this matter.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64951	Thank you. No more questions, or what? (Jorge Komlenski: There was also a question for the Swiss. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64952	The question was in the first round about the Swiss, about the Swiss-Conversion Act, which I didn't get an answer to, but that's why this misunderstanding occurred between you and me. Of course I have more questions. I am interested, since in December, how many citizens of the Republic of Serbia have achieved the right and possibility, adults and minors, to be treated abroad during this year and what are our plans and projections for next year and expectations in that direction? What does it feel like to continue to unify the content of the textbooks, regardless of what there is a possibility that they are taken from different, so to speak, printers, producers or whatever you call them at this point? I think that all students in the Republic of Serbia deserve that what they learn about in schools is truly uniform and, frankly, I have to add that there was a much closer practice when there was one Training Institute, and not now this galatias of those who can print textbooks and yet there are some differences in these textbooks, when it comes to the matter that students in certain schools have the opportunity to do. The next question is do you think that the work of the Public Service or RTS in the past year justifies the proposal to increase the TV subscription, given that I am personally, as well as many citizens of the Republic of Serbia, dissatisfied with the work of RTS? Unsatisfactory when it comes to a part of the programme relating to culture, which relates to education of young people, they transfer games that are of interest to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia and another fact, which is that we simply do not understand that the money of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the Public Service is being invested in some major projects, the level of observation of certain series and programmes is raised, and then there is no allegedly economic interest that they are being monitored through the Public Service, but rather some other televisions, some other distributors in some other or third series of things when it continues. I, on the other hand, would like to hear the assessment, do you think it's justified to increase the resources that RTS is supposed to be working with next year?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64953	Thank you. The word has an Ana Brnabic. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64954	Thank you. I apologize, I owe you an answer regarding loans in Switzerland, so I would certainly ask Minister Loncar, Minister Sarcevic, if he wants Minister Vukosavljevic to talk about his topics. So, as far as the Swiss loans are concerned, about 90%, slightly more than 90% of the people in charge of the Swiss people have accepted that programme offered by the Government of the Republic of Serbia in co-operation with the President of the Republic, Mr. Alexander Vukic, who, as you remember, participated directly in negotiations with those in charge of the Swiss francs. We've rebalanced the budget to define the funds for it, so now it's coming to an end. The rest of the people decided to proceed with the lawsuit, and we respect that, respect the independence of the judiciary. We'll wait for those verdicts and then we'll solve it like that, but anyway, to the greatest extent possible, this problem is now solved. Funds have been allocated in the budget, and I believe that there are citizens who have been in charge now far more satisfied, generally and what the state has done and security in Serbia itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64955	The word is made by Minister Lonchar.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64956	Dear President, honourable Members, I will only remind you that by 2014, we did not even have a budget fund to treat rare diseases, i.e. diseases that cannot be treated in the country of Serbia, and here I will give you concrete information. So by 2014, we didn't have it, we formed it, then we had one patient that year. On today, 178 patients went to treatment through the budget fund, some left several times, 333 samples were sent for questioning to determine diagnostics and 40 requests were granted for abroad doctors who came to Serbia to treat our children. The second thing, much better and much more patients abroad, was directed by the Commission of the Republic Health Insurance Fund, which is 4,148 patients who went to the expense of the Republic Health Insurance Fund, and we spent just over four billion dinars. We spent 322 million 493 thousand dinars through the budget fund. These are your actual numbers. I'll remind you, by 2014, we didn't have any, and what went through the Republic Fund wasn't even close to what we're talking about today. So that's more than 25 times the number of children and patients who have been treated abroad, we've brought foreign experts to treat them here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64957	The word is made by Minister Sarcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64958	I must share my opinion with you, Member Komlensky, about something that happened beyond my will. In 2015 before the time passed the Law on the liberalisation of copyright and competition of textbooks. It's a good agenda, but it's too early. There's a lot of things that haven't been arranged before. We first had this law on textbooks that was brought in and that didn't prove to be good. He even brought some bad things. There was a 5% census, so many publishers, even the Bookshop, fell under the census. He did not introduce standards for digital textbooks, nor did anyone deal with the subject, and serious countries in the world have done so much. There were master plans every four years for that to happen. In order to introduce the competition of textbooks, the curricula and the programme must be regulated, i.e. the national framework of the plan and programme. We later did so, so we changed the law in 2017, because we couldn't do it completely because of the European agenda. That's the problem. The school of textbooks had its own personal personnel problems, didn't realize the time that he had to make quality choices on the market and didn't realize that he had to pay for better reviewers. What a lot of people here have a bad perception is that foreigners took a job. Domestic companies, foreign companies, as you know, that capital doesn't recognize it. The receptors are domestic, the curricula and the program is domestic. We formed a unit at the Institute for Improving Education and Education a year ago as an independent body involved in this work. The Ministry is just an orderer, a bureaucratic apparatus that shouldn't interfere with the structure of what we're talking about. But we're really getting involved. We have formed a national unit for national issues, for national subjects aimed at equating what needs to be learned in Serbia when it comes to national history, national geography, language, culture, literature, both for Serbia and the Republic of Serbia. We hope for other regions where Serbs live in the majority, but we have made special plans and programmes for the Serbian diaspora. There's been a lot of work done on that. Of course there's still a lot of work to do. I don't want to defend the story that there shouldn't be competition in textbooks, for two reasons. The question of the quality of textbooks and the quality of teaching has finally opened this government through all the reform processes. If we were proud that a few months ago at the Frankfurt fair where digital textbooks were exhibited, Serbia appeared with a silver medal for a class 5 biology textbook. Right now, we're at the Prime Minister's and I'm on the air. Also, from the first to the fourth textbook on art culture, he received a gold medal. They're some smaller publishers or bigger ones. So it's up to us to strengthen the Bureau and literally force publishers in the next step. It is nice to ask them to look at more creative curricula and programmes of national importance and to be taken with the same extent by seriousness. If we're talking about the Holocaust, if we're talking about World War I, if we're talking about those important topics for national history, I can't be represented with two fingers on one side. That's what we're talking about. Plan B, let's sit down and pass a law that's a little retrograde and get our job back to the Bureau. I think plan A will do its job and we'll ask that 95% of the recognizable topics are covered in the same way. Since schools choose textbooks with the same publisher, one, two textbooks will not matter as much to schools as to publishers, times thousands of schools. So their economic interest will certainly be very present and we are working on it. We'll do it soon enough. I have recently been a representative of the Serbian delegation when it comes to the creation of a unique European history textbook, where we now have a serious topic that modern history does not show how it does not suit us. That it does not say that we have waged conquerive wars, that we must fight science through this process and procedure, so if we are able to fight in Europe, we remain obliged to do so in Serbia. I don't think these laws that have been passed prevent us from being operational, to insist on what is a national value, and on the other hand, the very result of what we're talking about will be seen in two years when the reform cycle of basics and high school ends, when we introduce a small and large graduation as an extreme evaluation, and when we see then the overall analysis that the institution has done better, which is worse, which has contributed to better results, of course, and the factor textbook. Then we question a big subject that I wouldn't open today, which is what corruption is about. There's a huge space for possible corruption. So now we can only hunt individuals where we're going to inspect and launch even criminal prosecution. There really, as a lawyer, you know what I'm talking about, because it's like every drug has its own counterproduct. I think we're close to making the story slowly difficult that we're visible, that we insist on national values both in the country and where it's supposed to be in the region and beyond, and that we're slowly affecting publishers, that we're affecting publishers that they preserve the national part, that they respect what the state requires, because that's what other countries do, it's nothing specific. It's one Switzerland, doing one South Korea, doing serious countries, calling it their sciences. So when we introduce Serbian science, we know exactly what it means. When we talk about quality, then there will be a very big question why the school director takes the publisher who is the most expensive and who achieves the worst results, then we can bring the story to an end. I'm going back to the beginning of the discussion, so I think the whole story came in very early in 2015, although it was realistic that it came in in 2020, 2021. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64959	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Vukosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64960	Thank you. Dear People's MP, if I understand correctly, your question was about the assessment of satisfaction or some kind of satisfaction with the work of public service in the work concerning at least the presence of the programme in the field of culture and other topics related to the subject. On that many occasions there have been words here, I pointed out, and then and now I have nothing new to say, that the public service RTS has a programme dedicated to the field of culture, but this programme is broadcast in a rather late evening period which is often for different reasons technically, due to the rhythm of life unaccessible to a larger number of people, but the public service, that of course, without any doubt, to respond directly, I think there should be more programmes dedicated in the field of culture, of course, education and other things, but what kind of programme there is. However, its scope and time of broadcast are not sufficiently consistent with the imagined public service mission, and I repeat that this time. But, on the other hand, it's not, now contrary to what I've said, but as a complement to one general picture, on other televisions that have a headline frequency of such programs, it almost doesn't exist at all. So there's not nearly a minute dedicated to cultural programmes and that thing is also worrying and we've also talked about it here on many occasions. In a strictly formal way, it is clear that public media services enjoy institutional autonomy in the performance of their activities, as it is called, and editorial independence, especially with regard to the determination of concept and determination of software content, as is known, in accordance with the law. But now, as it is known that public media services submit once a year to the National Assembly for consideration and decision-making purposes, means to consider and decide, to report on work and business for the previous year with an independent auditor's report, and that the National Assembly is the only body that decides to accept or not accept the report on the work and business of public media services. In this formal part of the law that determines this way, perhaps one possibility is to affect some of the topics that you have affirmed at this time, and even earlier, to a certain extent. So, if this is a problem, the problem is common, the problem may not be an ideal issue, but it is about the assessment of one situation and certainly what is imagined and the mission of public service is to be discussed at the places most called for to discuss, besides others, is the Ministry of Culture and Information, but it is also REM, but it is without a doubt also the National Assembly that adopts such a report once a year. So, there is space and I believe that the activities related to this topic will be able to produce some results. We've been talking about this very long and very often, but it seems to be becoming a slowly general place and to be at peace with the finding that the programs intended for the culture area are not sufficiently, it's at risk of me making a mistake, more or less general assessment, at the risk of me being wrong about what I'm saying, but I don't think so. So it seems to me that it may have been time or earlier, but now it is no doubt time for these topics and these phenomena to be discussed and acted in a way that would lead to a greater affirmation of the cultural and other quality content broadcast on televisions with national frequencies, which was also a lot of words. But certainly, the public service of RTS has, for various reasons, one greater obligation and greater responsibility towards this society and this community. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64961	Thank you. The People's Messenger George Komlensky has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64962	Of course, we are not dealing with anything that can be better in Serbia, nor with a situation that is concerned with the media, when it comes to culture. Of course, there are initiatives that, which I think should be supported and accepted, to introduce a mandatory part of the programme based on promotion of cultural content, education on other media that have a national frequency. I do not see any obstacles to doing so or why someone has received a national frequency unless it meets something of national interest to the Republic of Serbia. So that's obviously something that was a little bit earlier, is not why we don't sanction it in the next period, as, of course, MPs won't stop with the initiative to definitely clear up the position of unfair competition in the climate of the media, and that's when it comes to "N1" and other quasi-border television. I use this name on purpose, because I am absolutely sure that they have no right to do what they do, in a way that they do in the Republic of Serbia. It is not about any re-emission and frankly, I am creeping out the answers we receive from REM as MPs to questions, which should primarily protect the interests of all broadcasters in the Republic of Serbia, not just cross-border ones, which is trying to convince us that re-emission is a technical and not a legal problem. I really expect that the state authorities will finally send forensics economically, because they are the first ones to step in there and determine whether there is a tax evasion or not, in order for this process to continue. If it is not, of course, we will take steps that I know very well in all these procedures, to get to the final truth, because there's no reason to waste this much energy. It's either true that they don't have the right to do things that way, or we're wrong. That should be closed once and for all and for all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64963	Thank you. No response to comment. The word has Elvira Kovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64964	Thank you, Your Honor. The presidency, presidents and members of the government, my question concerns the strategy of inciting birth. In fact, this strategy was adopted by the Serbian Government on 16 March 2018. Within the framework and specifically specific objectives of two, the coordination of work and parenting, as an individual objective, is stated the harmonisation of the parental and professional domain. One of the activities envisaged for the implementation of this objective is so-called Introducing a license, supporting family obligations, for companies that respect the obligations and rhythm of parents. My particular question is, have concrete measures been taken to realise the individual goal of harmonising the parental and professional domain? What are those measures? What and what are the effects of the measures taken so far? In particular, what are the effects of introducing a license supporting a very rogobatically formulated, for family obligations, because we understand it as a familia, friends for companies that respect the obligations and rhythm of parents? I would ask the question, if possible, to the Prime Minister himself, the Minister for Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, in the second round and the Minister himself in charge of population policy and additional issues. Since the strategy itself says that holders for the realisation of the individual goal in this strategy are precisely the Ministry of Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, and I believe that the authors of the strategy have very well defined that these three ministries are actually the bearers of the objective of harmonising the parental and professional domain because it is a really complex issue, because the consequences of demographic change in the ageing of our population, the reduction of the fertility rate, the migration processes. So, all of these together are really visible in all areas of life, how economies, social and health policies are somehow changing and changing business behaviors, cultural habits, is a different kind of demand for services and products, changing towards certain types of services. The fact is that demographics have been for many years, not to say for decades, have been warning about the consequences of the phenomenon of insufficient birth in Serbia, unfortunately, and have advocated the country's strategic approach, so it's a good thing that we have this strategy to encourage birth, natural growth, it takes 2.1 children. The goal of this strategy is actually 1.85 children per woman, and the current figures are unfortunately only 1.48. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64965	Thank you. The word has an Ana Brnabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64966	Thank you for this extremely important question and perhaps not enough here in the congregation to discuss this really, really important topic. I must say that I am proud that I have raised the visibility of this topic and opened up the discussion, and it seems to me, in a wider society, that we are solving the problem of the Natalie that we have, not only in Serbia, but there is an entire Europe, and that are potentially terrible consequences if we are not able to do enough today to reverse this trend. So I will definitely ask Minister Djukic Dejanovic to talk a little more about it. I am going to share with the citizens of the Republic of Serbia today one of the information that we discussed at the government, which also President Vukic shared with the citizens of the Republic of Serbia the other day, which we are extremely proud of, is extremely happy for her and tells us that despite everyone saying that it is really impossible to change things within a short time, that it may still be possible, although it takes time to see whether this is a trend or just an incident. I'd say this is perhaps one of the three greatest successes of all of us together this year. So, in this year between January and September, Serbia finally had a plus 1.32%, so we had a positive birth rate, or more children were born this year than last year -- and in 612, 612 children were born more compared to the same period last year. Everyone else in the region, as much as countries invest in this issue and encourages the birth of children, and it seems to me that Hungary has been ahead of it for some time now, everyone else in the region continues to have a negative natural growth. So Albania minus 8.62, so 1,864 children less than last year, Croatia minus 2.9, 797 children less than last year, Serbia 612 more than last year, Hungary minus 1.85, Bulgaria minus 1.60, Romania minus 6.32%, Montenegro minus 3.18%, Northern Macedonia minus 11.09%, which means 1.153 children less than 2018, Bosnia and Herzegovina minus 2.17%, Slovenia minus 2.54%. I repeat, Serbia is the only one in 1.32%. This must mean that somehow citizens, regardless of what you did this year, or at the end of last year, passed the Financial Support Act with families with children, we promoted it a lot. There are other things we've talked about with parents' associations and organizations that deal with this problem. At this point, we have been working really hard with the Ministry of Finance for some time now to find the best funding model for some more reliefs, to correct some of the things in this law that have been brought to our attention with full right and some MPs in the Assembly and some organizations. So, I expect we'll keep working on it and it'll get better. But the fact is, we managed to raise the visibility of this topic. We also introduced the "Friend of the Family" award with the Serbian Chamber of Commerce this year, a first-time award recognised by companies in an open competition in which they apply, recognised companies that best co-ordinate work and parenting. Our labour law isn't so bad in that sense. So he also recognizes the modes of flexible working time and work from home, but to an insufficient extent employers in the Republic of Serbia apply it. So, there are companies that do this well, there are companies that go beyond that, so they're giving extra benefits to their parents to promote such a culture within their company. We recognized these companies for the first time this year, gave them these awards and, with certain media support, showed other companies how possible and how much happier and more satisfied they are then, of course, more productive. So we'll continue in this direction, we'll follow closely. I even have one person in my office who's only in charge of responding to problems that have individual maternity or pregnant women, to contact the ministries, to inspect work, to ensure that even on this basis, I would say that individual people are there to help these women exercise their rights and to ensure that employers respect laws to the greatest extent possible. So, we're going to introduce some additional measures in terms of further inspection reform, this contact center for citizens, for all inspections, on which we're working at this point, so that if someone in this sense doesn't know who to contact, they can contact that contact center, and then we ourselves will react, no matter what inspection it is sent to. I expect, indeed, in 2020, additional significant changes, to further strengthen our legal framework, but the fact that citizens themselves recognized this as a very important topic has indeed, I think, brought to me this positive shift that we are very proud of, because you can see by these numbers how difficult it is to achieve such a thing, even for countries that invest a lot more, which have been dealing with this problem a lot longer. I really expect that even on the team with President Vukic and his team, we will have even better results in the future, and we will certainly work further on the implementation of everything from the Strategy for Encouragement of Birth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64967	Thank you. Do you have any more questions? Yeah. Set them up.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64968	I thank you for these answers. I specifically wanted to talk about the Ministry's own research without portfolios in charge of demographics and population policy and the Republic Statistics Institute, which showed concrete data, namely, that each third employer approves the redistribution of working time, that only every fifth employer allows slippery working hours, and 90% of employers do not allow work from home. So, what's the current situation? This study took part in 330 employers, with more than 126,000 employees and was implemented with the support of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, as we heard, and showed that of the various types of flexible working time, employers are the most open to the classic replacement shift, which is our reality. Therefore, it is indeed clear that the state’s assistance in harmonising work and parenting is necessary. As far as the Minister and the Ministry are concerned, without portfolios in charge of demographics and population policy, I know that from 2016, grants have been allocated to subsidise measures of population policy aimed at cities and municipalities and our local self-governments. In the past three years, according to my data, 161 municipalities and cities with about 1.2 billion dinars have been financed, about 10m euros, because in the birth incentive strategy itself, it says that the activation of local self-government is to be activated. On these issues, local self-government is, if I say so, closer to the citizens and it can best recognise the needs of concrete parents. On the basis of the above, I am really interested, since I know that the minister certainly has good examples from various local self-governments who visit, whether these measures are in place. I must share with those present and as a mother from Zrenjanin. I know that Zrenjanin two years ago, the city of Zrenjanin received funds from your ministry, that it lasted. We had a serious poll. So, in the city of Zrenjanin, we have 19 kindergartens where each parent contacted, surveyed and assessed the needs of these parents, many of them working in two or three shifts. Since December 1st, two kindergartens will be working until 11:00 p.m., so by 11:00 p.m. for those who work until 10:00 p.m. and will work weekends. Now, of course, the question has been opened, what about those who do night shifts, whether they're going to introduce day care for 24 hours. It is important to think about it and may be interested in some other positive examples. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64969	The word is Slavica Djukic Dejanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64970	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Kovac, I thank you for such good information about the topics the government has been working on since the moment the current president of the state, then the Prime Minister estimated that one of the government's priorities should be working in the portfolio on which I am headed. The government is really very connected, very integratedly approaching the issue of birth, population policy, analysis of demographic indicators, and in fact there are no segments in the government that do not deal with this issue. Finally, and the fact that the president of the National Council for Population Policy, the president of the country, is talking about how important this is. It does not give any political points because good results cannot be expected at all for a period of time as long as the mandate of a government, but good steps are encouraging. The Prime Minister just brought out some of them. I'd just like to say, before I get to the direct answer to your question, that in an analysis of the structures of the mother who received certain financial incentives. More and more women in employment have become parents year by year and we can already talk about the third year of one trend. On the other hand, when we analyzed the structure of the education of mothers who have three children, each fourth is highly educated and with the information that among the ten countries, and among them are those belonging to the EU, Romania, Bulgaria, Hungary, all of the Republics of the former Yugoslavia and Albania, we are the only ones who have had a positive number of babies, therefore increased compared to the same period of the previous year, and we believe that the measures are intensely realising indeed the initial results. You mentioned research related to harmonising work and parenting. With the Chamber of Commerce and the Republic Bureau of Statistics we organized this research, which included over 126 employees, the representative sample was close to 4.330 employers we contacted most directly. Our initial idea was to change the normative to bring work and parenting into line. What happened when we analyzed the results? It happened that actually employees have very little information about what the Labour Act gives everything as a possibility, and then of course employers cannot respond favorably if they do not have a request. We first started by educating employees through the cooperation of those persons who are in charge of human resources in individual economic and all other entities. The state as an employer of a financial institution, economic operators, are all equally important when it comes to this subject and we have actually done this research taking into account samples from all of these entities. As for the funds allocated to local self-government units, I'd like to remind you that three years ago a total of 130 million were assigned to 15 units of local self-government. Two years ago, actually a year ago, a total of 50 million for 61 units and this year we had a sum of 650 million dollars and a total of 85 cities and municipalities received funds. What it looks like is the allocation of those funds in the first place because it seems to me that it was precisely from fellow MPs to some misunderstandings and misunderstandings about how the funds are being allocated. You see, that public advertising gives every municipality and every city an opportunity to prepare and apply. The prerequisite is that they have a face at the level of their council dealing with demographic population issues and that they must make a preliminary analysis. So in a way, in order to provide grants, we have come up with that every city and every municipality has to analyse its structure, demographic, population, issue of migration, active ageing and appear with a very concrete programme that it sees as an absolute priority when it comes to population policy for that city. One of the cities to our great pleasure which already on two occasions receives funds is Zrenjanin. Zrenjanin, among other things, asked for funds to provide and adapt houses on the periphery of the city that would assign young couples who had one child or had just taken up and were just planning to expand their family, or parenting. A dozen of these fine examples and a total of 27 of these solved housing issues were also a significant incentive for young people to stay where they got the roof over their heads and to work there. Of course, there were other very good examples. By the way, the biggest amount of money has gone to the adaptation and addition of space for preschool institutions because these waiting lists are still relatively large, but the result is that two and a half thousand youngsters, boys and girls have received accommodations in preschool institutions. In seven villages, we managed for the first time together with local self-government units to establish a clear age for child care. So, starting with the fact that preschool accommodation is not only a result that will reduce parents' concerns about where children are, but that it has an educational character, that it strengthens the competence of our youngest citizens over achieving the most different goals, we really think that this investment is very justified. There were such demands that appeared to be very unusual, one unit of local self-government, I think I told you once, she asked for 18 electric bicycles to fix the birth rate, and Shid was concerned. It was a little illogical for me how we'd fix it with electric bicycles. However, associates of families and nurses who visit children and older helpless persons, since Shid has 18 villages, each of them got that bike and unmatchedly faster reached the destination and spent an incomparably longer period of time in the house, dealing with the care of a child, than an old person, so that young parents could devote themselves and think and feel at the end of the state support. So, the imagination of those who apply for these funds is great, we can talk about it, we simply don't want to take a lot of time, but from the total amount of money you've brought out yourself is the largest number of funds left for preschool institutions, unfortunately some empty schools we've adapted for such spaces. For example, in Subotica, it happened that we had been preparing 5000 meals a day for 30 years, raising the number of meals to 12,000. These are deep questions of life. These are questions that concern really young people who gain more confidence in their country being around and that they can rely on it when they plan to expand their families. I truly share my satisfaction with all of you, honourable MPs, and on behalf of the Government and the President of the State, I thank you once again for working together on this issue.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64971	Thank you. The word has Minister Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64972	Dear MPs, I'd like to introduce you to one more thing. As far as we as the Government of the Republic of Serbia are determined to fight and fight the grey economy, against working on black, we are also committed to combating all those who violate the rights of our mothers, mothers and pregnant women and who violate any labour law when it comes to them. In that sense, you know that on that free phone regarding the Labour Inspectorate, 0800-300-307 we introduced option 2, which implies that all those mothers, maternity mothers and pregnant women who know their rights are violated can report these cases. From July 22nd to November 27th, there were 208 calls, of which 55 were employed pregnant women and 84 were on maternity leave. The inspection did 105 inspection controls and out of these 208, 103 were tips on the phone. Of those 105, there were 13 solutions and 36 warrants for the records, then four misdemeanors, we filed 10 requests for a misdemeanor procedure. This was all about 22 employers, for a total of 13 pregnant women and nine maternity parents. The entire list and the entire register is kept up-to-date, there are no privileged ones, is on the Ministry's site in the Inspectorate of Labour option – registers and can, literally, be seen from Sunday to Sunday by employers who have violated the law and who have taken away some rights from pregnant women and maternity parents. Like I said, none will be privileged, especially in cases like this, and will be punished by maximum punishment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64973	Thank you. The President of the Government has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64974	I would just like to add to the end, I was reminded by Minister Djukic Dejanovic when she said it was a deep-life issue, and you also said that it was not a matter dealing with a resolution and that it was really impossible for you to have some kind of successful policy, implementation of that strategy, without, through various resolutions, all of us working on it together. It seems to me that respected MPs can see that we are truly all deeply committed to this work. I would add only to the end and what we have done, in terms of electronic services for new parents and how we are trying to make life easier for both new parents and parents with slightly bigger children. So, a few years ago, we introduced a system of e-babys, an electronic system for reporting newborns, so that parents would practically immediately report the birth of a child in the maternity ward, not spend three days running from the counter to the counter. We, two years ago, then, implemented a system of e-baby phase 2, so that's where we added, as you know, we promoted it right to Zrenjanin, a parenting supplement. So, today and for your parental allowance, you report through that system and you get on your cell phone just text message that your parental allowance will be paid in the next 45 days to that and that account. Indeed, everything we could do to improve this service every time, give both time and peace to parents to deal with the baby. We have now further improved that service by now and when the parent comes out and the baby comes out of the maternity ward, they get one piece of paper on which not only are all the things that we've finished for them, that they know what's over and what else they need to finish, but also information about the new law. So they know what parental supplements are now and what rights they have for the first child, second child, third child, etc. So, we're constantly, somehow, in communication, trying to be with the organizations that deal with this issue and with the parents themselves, to understand what it is that we can make it even more life-long to make it easier for them. We also introduced an electronic service a few years ago for enrolment of children in kindergarten, e-Wall. Until now, up to 18 months ago, only in four local self-governments in Serbia have been available. We've invited local self-governments to report further. Now we have 145 local self-government. Our plan is to include all local self-governments in this project in 2020, so that children are enrolled everywhere, if parents want to, electronically, without going to kindergarten. Again, time savings, maximum comfort for parents and entire families. We've been introduced since this year, since September 1st, electronic enrolment in primary and secondary schools. The only thing left to not be a complete electronic enrolment is confirmation of a doctor's examination. We've now tied that system to ISIS, to an electronic health care system. So, on March 1, 2020, when the enrolment begins, you will be enrolling children in schools without any additional paper necessary. All that country ends for you. Finally, another huge problem we solve is the construction of new kindergartens. We really have to invest a lot more there. The Ministry of Education has signed an Agreement on Co-operation with the World Bank and the construction of new kindergartens is also found in the national investment programme and in the next few years we will focus on building new kindergartens, equipment for kindergartens and working with children, since preschool age. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64975	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Elvira Kovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64976	Thank you. I'm glad we showed how much it was done to make it easier for parents. I would like to point out in my final comment that indeed countries that have fertility rates more than average, such as Sweden, the Netherlands and others, generally do not have specific policies that are aimed at increasing fertility, but are simply, it would say, "gendre sensitivity" or those gender-sensitive societies, in which such conditions are simply created, provide support for all segments of society to families. It is interesting that the mentioned strategy to encourage the birth of the Government of the Republic of Serbia also indicates that in the Nordic countries, the active involvement of fathers in parenting is, the absence at birth of the first child increases the likelihood that they will wish for another child. I would remind all of us that, in accordance with the Law on Labour in Serbia, it is possible for a child's father to use a leave of absence for child care until 365 days, but unfortunately, the practice is such that statistics percentages show that everything between 4% and 5% of fathers decide on this. So, I think we should also work on promoting this possibility. The family-supported environment encourages the involvement of fathers in raising children, meeting family obligations, which would certainly have a positive impact on the general change in the concept of understanding gender equality. I think just the example of the Nordic countries that I mentioned proves that gender equality itself can lead to an increase in the fertility rate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64977	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64978	Thank you. I only have two times three minutes, and that's why I have to be very quick and concrete, and I urge that the answers be that way, possibly. Mr. Trivan, the last time we talked, you announced, there was a problem with this current, mini power plant "Rocket" and everything that was going on, the unloved scene. In this regard, I have had several questions and you have then announced that you will come to the congregation very soon with new law or amendments and additions to the Law on the human environment, on the protection of the environment that this problem should solve. I ask – how far did it come? Can we expect that in this context, this law on banning mini power plants will contain, indeed, a ban on building mini power plants or just banning in protected areas, because these are two different things? I think he has a basis for a more complete ban. As I said, if any of these investors have the right to any compensation, better give them better than to risk the unloved scenes and some kind of mini war that has been fought in many parts, and ugly scenes and broken heads and injuries that have been happening throughout Serbia at these sites. The second question is the same for you, regarding the other topic, which is this announced ban on imports of cars with lower standards, environmental. There's a bit of a mix-up, I'd say, and I'd challenge the President of the Republic with my performance in an interview. This has caused a lot of confusion among citizens, although there have been several attempts to clarify the matter. So people were afraid that retailers would take away their cars with these inadequate engines, or it would just be a ban on importing engines from below Euro 4 standards. In this regard, one expert opinion of yours do you agree and do you think, no matter what we do, that we have as good as possible, and everyone agrees that we have as much air as possible, but that actually, our cars are not the main polluter of the human environment and air, even in cities where there are much bigger problems, actually, bars, or heat used, especially in the winter season? So far from the fact that cars don't pollute, but I think it's too expensive to impose too much, too much pressure on the pockets of most of our citizens who drive cars right now, at an enormous percentage, 80% of them are the ones who would now come under the influence of this ban. For Mr. Loncar, just a brief question relating to multiple sclerosis patients, there are about 9,000 of them, and what are their chances of providing therapy complete and with newer or newer generations of drugs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64979	Thank you. The word has a Minister Trivan.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64980	Thank you very much. In a few sentences. So, when it comes to mini-hydro-centrals, we've done a fundamental in our society, I'd say, public debate about what kind of impact they have, positive and negative on our environment. What happened in the meantime, and that was very important, is that our president received a delegation of people who believe that the mini-hydrous are not desirable, in their opinion in protected goods, above all, and of course they had a chance to talk about it somewhere. There's a procedure in progress now. So, I still don't think the mini hydrothermias are desirable in protected goods. For now, I think we should limit ourselves to protected goods. We have our obligations to all the conventions we have signed towards renewable energy sources, there is Minister Antić who does it very well, and that is one segment we must also, and we need to fill in on the issue of energy. So now we're going to work on proposing that kind of solution in agreement with the president's cabinet, and it's important to see more than clearly what the impact of these mini-bodies is. As far as cars are concerned, any dilemma needs to be developed. So no one is going to take cars away from our citizens, no one is going to cause any problems when it comes to owning cars with Euro3, Euro4 engines. So, everyone who owns it, of course, can use it further. What we're talking about is whether in the future we're going to allow these cars with the worst combustion imports. This is a topic not only for the Ministry of Environment, but also for the Ministry of Trade and others dealing with traffic. That's what we're gonna do at the beginning of next year. What's your question, actually, is, as a third, it actually refers to urban environments. We have to make the difference between environmental pollution in urban and rural areas, because the thing is quite different. We are, in fact, under the greatest impact in urban areas, but the sources of pollution are actually multiple, you mentioned them yourself. It's hard to figure out now exactly whether the larger traffic polluter or the larger contaminant is actually a deposit on all those energies that are sometimes better, sometimes a little worse, and in fact everybody pollutes the environment. It is now our struggle as people who deal with the environment to improve our people's living conditions in different ways, but each of us and as a citizen will have to make part of the effort to make our environment, of course, better. In these days we've had in the past month where we've had very sunny weather, where there's been high temperatures, where there's no rain, where there's no wind, where there's no heating, it's clear that traffic was one of the biggest pollutants. That's why we told that story at all, about engines and everything. It is understood that heating, even cooling in another way, is the source of various types of pollution, and that is what we will understand, deal with in a way that does not endanger our country, while protecting our citizens. One of the most important methods of protecting our environment would be to instruct local self-governments to work intensively, for years, to shut down these individual boiler rooms that they lay down. Those who own these boilers from tires to different kinds of oil, which is actually catastrophic and carcinogenic, and this is an opportunity to warn the citizens and ask them not to do it at all. So don't put your individual boiler rooms on anything that isn't intended for these purposes, because it's really harmful for you yourself. The state will help, Belgrade has been implementing this kind of policy for years and Belgrade can serve as an example that this is a way to fight for good air quality, and what are, for example, power plants that heat our cities, should slowly move on to some cleaner sources. There's a clear difference in Belgrade, let's say when we're heating up on gas, or let's say some other energy sources. So, we deal with all the questions that you mentioned, and we'll be sure to resolve all these questions over the next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64981	Here you go. The word is made by President Ana Brnabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64982	Thank you. Just one detail about your first question, which is the production of electricity from small hydropower plants. So I fully understand the need to protect the environment and I am absolutely up for it. But I think that again in Serbia we are going to extremes with some problems, especially because we like to politicize some topics that have nothing to do with politics, so who has now allowed the construction of small hydropower plants, so what is the bula of corruption, so what happened, so we have, of course, come one step at a time to completely ban the construction of small hydropower plants, not just in protected areas, as you have now mentioned. So, I have to tell you that this is completely pointless and if you look at what is happening in Europe today, and also in the EU itself, but let's say throughout Europe, so in 2018, the increased amount of electricity produced in hydroelectric power plants was again, mostly in mini power plants. So, countries that are much more concerned with environmental protection, unfortunately have a much longer tradition and preservation of their local communities, care for local communities, continue to build small hydropower plants. I'll tell you that in 2018, if I'm not mistaken, an additional 2.2 gigawatt of electricity was created from hydropower plants in Europe. There is the most about outside the EU, there is the most, there is over 1,000 megawatts in Turkey and about 419 megawatts in Norway, I think we are in 2018. We don't have that much in Serbia, with all these protests that we have, with all the politicization of this issue, we don't have 400 megawatts in total, I mean at this point, from small hydropower plants, we have 100 megawatts from small hydro-elements. Now for the citizens of Serbia, just to understand to what extent this issue is politicised. Please don't go to the extreme, so that we don't really be such a non-serious country where they say okay, and if there is, and I'm really open to accepting that there must be a problem somewhere, to say that because of one or two problems, let's completely ban small hydroelectric power plants. So I think it's completely pointless. As for multiple sclerosis, first of all, I'm really glad that we're talking about this topic today. What seems to me to be talking more and more about issues in the field of health. I can't remember ever talking about health care so much before, so as much as it stands out to treat kids abroad. Of course we didn't even talk when there wasn't a fund to treat children abroad. Those who criticise us today that support is being collected through text messages, at that point they didn't even have a fund for it, never occurred to them. So we've been criticised for that, it seems to me that now we're not because we've explained how much money is invested, how much more is invested every year and how much has been done through the very fund that's registered. It is also with multiple sclerosis which is indeed a terrible disease that affects, mostly young people. I've received representatives from one of the associations to hear the problem because I'm really interested in it, especially since it's a disease that usually occurs in young people, I mean between 20 and 40 years old. I looked a little along with the Ministry of Health and the Republic Health Insurance and Statistics Fund. So we have two problems. The first is certainly that only 13% of all patients who have about 9,000 are treated. The other problem is that this therapy is extremely expensive. But when you get into a little bit more trouble, you'll see that in 2009, out of the total number of patients, only 460 patients were treated, but nobody mentioned it at the time. That wasn't a subject at the time. It wasn't a criticism of the Ministry of Health or that government at the time, simply because it wasn't talked about. This is what started talking about when I saw these people. Minister Loncar was activated when we started talking to certain producers of innovative medicines and considered how to increase the budget for this, with a constant budget increase and for all other things, very expensive therapy for the treatment of rare diseases, children and adults abroad, for treatment of cancers. We've been set aside for both gamma knife and x knife. So all these things have to be budgeted somehow. Between 2009 and 2018, the number of patients treated increased slightly more than two and a half times. It's a significant release from the budget. A total of 1,083 patients were treated in 2018. We have significantly increased the budget for the treatment of multiple sclerosis every year compared to last year. In 2015 compared to 2014, so it's the first year we... were still extremely strict fiscal consolidation and savings measures, but we increased the treatment and the budget by 18% that year compared to 2014, then 11.40% in 2016, 15% in 2017 and an additional 29% in 2018. Now we've again decided to increase the budget, by negotiating with producers to introduce some innovative therapies. I don't think this is enough, but this is an extremely expensive therapy. In doing so, I ask you all to understand that we are trying to reconcile the funds available to us between new cancer treatments, for additional treatment of children abroad, for rare diseases, now for this. So that's one, unfortunately, limited budget that you have to and try to spend as much as you can. We will continue to run a fully transparent policy, to talk to these people, to explain to them what we are doing, to agree on what further we can do, but, please, therefore, when it was a huge problem and when we were at the beginning or below, no one talked about it. So let's try to find topics, and especially you as an MP for the opposition, or an MP who does not support this government, to find topics that the government is not already dealing with, that is, topics that the government itself has pointed out are problematic and that we are trying to solve them. It seems to me to be somehow the task of the opposition in the Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64983	Thank you, Prime Minister. The right to another question is Mr. Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64984	I am glad to hear the relatively concrete and sincere answers that include that there is not so much money and it is not such a great situation in the budget. Listening to some discussions here, I thought we were in the golden age. So, I respect the efforts that are being taken, but let's say we saved, and if you had removed from the budget a national stadium and some similar things, you would have saved a lot of money for, say, treating rare diseases and even more money or for a wider percentage of those receiving multiple sclerosis therapy. As far as these mini power plants are concerned, it is a small percentage and such a small percentage of energy generated from a renewable energy source in general, especially from a mini hydropower plant in Serbia, so it is an additional argument for me that there are simply many more problems and damages produced, and it is a very small benefit in energy terms. But let's go for harder and a little more complex questions. It may have been a question for Mr. Mali or Ruzic, but there are none, so I have to ask you, Mrs. Brnabic, why is the reintroduction of payment classes delayed? So, two, three years since we've been here in the Assembly, it's always for the new year, for January 1, it announces and then cancels. Also, you heard yesterday and the day before Mr Mustafa from Presevo said and asked for the results of their May 1992 referendum on the territory of Medvedje, Presevo and Bujanovac on Kosovo's accession. Mr Mustafa said he wants Albanians in southern Serbia to get everything Serbia is looking for with international guarantees for Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. Isn't that, Mrs. Brnabic, just one example of how these speculations with demarcation, exchange of territory and the like actually increase aspirations to part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia and various appetites that have been almost extinguished or have fallen apart, resuscitating? So, the very story of it in our public about these things has restored the requirements, like Mr. Mustafa. Finally, a question for Mr. Nebojsa Stefanovic. We could discuss here for two hours, but would you be inclined to support, Mr Stefanovic, an idea that may sound radical, but I suggest it here in the Assembly, it can be modified a little bit, and what do you think about, because of these huge affairs mentioned in the dedicated industry, in the manufacture of weapons, above all, the Krusik affair, but others, to further or test or put a moratorium on private intermediaries in the exporting of weapons from the Republic of Serbia, and to do so by state producers and state-owned companies? That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64985	Thank you, Mr. Vukadionovic. Dr. Zlatibor Lonchar called. Here you go, Dr. Lonchar.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64986	Mr. Vukadinovic, I assume that sounds to someone perhaps acceptable when you say -- you know, you didn't give the money from the stadium here. First of all, you know very well, I just don't know why you won't... There is no country in the world that spends all the money on drugs and treatment. So there's no such example in the world. That's one thing. The other thing, I think we've proven that we're one extremely responsible government and it would be your turn to say -- people, I don't like you, I'm not a fan, but you've invested a lot more and you invest a lot more and you're doing a lot more than you've done, and you've done a lot of things that haven't been fixed. Let me remind you how it worked until 2014. The Prime Minister told us that we had the same hurt 1,000 people from multiple sclerosis, from rare diseases, from various cancers and from everything, but it wasn't a topic anywhere. And do you know why there was no topic anywhere? It was not a topic because a certain part of the budget from the Ministry of Health went to the media, i.e. those agencies, newspapers and television, where they allegedly paid for health institutions. Can you imagine? Let's just say, the Clinical Center pays the press to advertise it. You have one of Serbia's only clinical centres, and then he gives huge money to the newspaper to advertise it, and that's how it worked. Neither they advertised the Clinical Centre, nor there was a larger institution, and then today, from the Clinical Centre of Serbia, nor did it have any need, nor did it have any purpose, nor did that money go for it. No, that money went off to not talk about problems. The police removed associations if they accidentally approached the Minister of Health or someone from the government. If they want to approach, then there's a cordon of police to move away, so there's no theme, no saying anything's being treated. Please deny me that it wasn't like that and deny me that once more has been invested and that more has been aided both children and everyone. Please, here, deny me in front of everyone that it was like that. Have you heard of prevention? Did you hear that we're much better off leaving our kids out on the street, but let them go to those stadiums, go to sports facilities, play sports? Have you ever heard that the greater prizes were never given for medals and for others to motivate children? Is prevention the best thing? Will less kids get sick if they're involved in sports, if they live that sports life, than those kids who eat fast food and who get fat and who live some other way of life, and God forbid, they end up getting high, selling them drugs and stuff? You rarely have kids who do sports and who cross that path to the other side. Just be a little realistic. There's no problem. So, I'm just asking for it, nothing else. Is there a country that has solved all the problems and can single out money for all the drugs that appear? It doesn't exist, it absolutely doesn't exist. Check, here, you'll see, it doesn't exist. The systems they're comparing us with, don't drag me by my tongue to talk about what it looks like, they don't see a doctor. They can't reach a specialist doctor. They only see him on TV. Let's not talk about waiting lists in other countries. As for the drug for multiple sclerosis, the cure has come out, this one that will be from the beginning of next year for our patients. A year ago, a year and a few days ago he was just registered in America. Well, can you imagine that we're going to have the same drug here? And when was that? And not that we're going to have it, but it's being produced in Serbia. We were able to convince these people, that drug is being produced in Serbia. We negotiate to get it at the best price and plus that we have the need to take a number of patients, to give them, to give them that medicine, to heal, because it won't go through this mandatory part here, which is when we have, when it comes with new drugs, a year for them to take a certain number of patients and to heal. What, did someone take more care of that? Has it ever been more transparent? Did you steal any money? Do you have any information that one dinar was stolen from health care? Tell him, tell him when it was better. Let me know when it's more invested. Just remind us, just say the word. There, I'm only asking for that correctness.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64987	Thank you, Dr. Lonchar. The word has the Prime Minister, Mrs. Ana Brnabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64988	Thank you. So, I checked now. In countries that are members of the EU, of the type of Hungary, Poland and Bulgaria, the coverage of patients receiving treatment against multiple sclerosis is between 12% and 30%, therefore, not much different from Serbia. In many, much richer countries, some EU, some outside the EU, types England, Denmark and Norway, this coverage is between 40% and 50%. For those of you who tell me that there is 100% coverage in the region, of the type of Montenegro and of Croatia, I ask them how many people are diagnosed and what is the standard to be diagnosed, because if you have such standards that instead of 9,000 diagnosiss that for two thousand people and then you say - so 100% is a coverage, so we can and so on, but I think it's better to really diagnose everyone who is sick, so let's see what we're going to do then. So in countries that are much, much, much richer than Serbia, the coverage is between 40% and 50%. Now, while Minister Loncar was talking, I've checked one more thing. So here, England is between 40% and 50%. I've checked how many stadiums are being built at this time or is being announced in the construction of England, and I've found eight at least: "Bradford Plimunt", "Stvinage", "Fulam", "Vimbledon", "Jork City", "Boston United", "Aberding" and "Gloster". But it's just the beginning. So, I would assume, I don't know why in the English Parliament now someone isn't criticizing the government why they're even investing in these stadiums, but they're not putting everything into drugs? You know, it's a good idea, but it certainly doesn't work long-term, because you're building things and doing things, because in the future these things will, in one way or another or third way, bring you some extra revenue into the budget that will allow you to continuously in the years ahead of you to allocate fully sustainable money for these opportunities. If you now have 100m euros in your budget, the easiest and most beautiful, the most politically opportunised to take these 100m euros, share the people you need and help one generation of people or one group of people in one year and everyone is happy. And what do you do next year? So, if you ask me, I view the national stadium as an investment, an infrastructure investment, which besides the results it will have when it's built, will also produce some results while it's being built, because it's a significant, huge investment. He'll hire some people, hire some construction firms. These companies will pay taxes. They'll pay taxes on those people who work. From that stadium will generate new GDP, or generate GDP growth, as any infrastructure project, and then the project itself will allow us to promote Serbia by being able to bring some European world championships here. People will be able to come here as tourists to watch those championships. They'll generate some economic activity again, through restaurants, selling drinks, buying some equipment, buying some stuff. So you can not build anything and give everything now for the single use of someone, as commendable as it is, but it simply is not a sustainable economic policy and will not ensure that, unfortunately, people who are diagnosed in the future, diagnosed with other diseases or this disease, have tomorrow a sustainable budget to be treated. If that's not clear to you, good thing you're not in charge of running this country's economic and social policy, because then you'd spend it all this year, and next year, who knows what happens? As for this call by a particular political group of Presevo and Bujanovac some Albanian parties, I am sure you know that this is not new and that such calls from certain political leaders in Presevo and Bujanovac to secede from Serbia and join the so-called. Kosovo or the great Albania, which is the entirely idea resulting from one, so I would say, a rather disturbed understanding of the geopolitical situation at the moment, and also in the world, is not a new thing. It is hypocritical of you to accuse President Vukic or this government of trying to find a solution to a centuries-old issue, we have led to some political elites in Presevo and Bujanovac calling for secession. So, here, now I've found it. The first declaration of attachment of the so-called so-called ‘. Kosovo, which I found and I heard of, was in 1992. At that time, the so-called "supervised" was held. a referendum. One of the conclusions of the 1992 referendum, which was organised by Albanian political parties, said that the assembly of all Albanian council members of the Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja municipalities has brought a declaration seeking Kosovo's accession to Albanian-based towns. You know that's been the subject ever since. This is not a new topic, it is not a subject that is the result of the difficult talks that we are having, above all, to ensure that Serbs remain on the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, the security of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, the better position of the Republic of Serbia and all that we are ultimately leading through responsible politics, but rather the result of some politics and some political opportunism of some Albanian leaders from Presevo and Bujanovac in the decades that preceded us, and you know that very well. So it's hypocritical, it's inconclusive, and I really mean quite a cheap attempt to place this news as if it had anything to do with our efforts to find a solution that will bring long-term sustainable peace, not only in the Republic of Serbia, but in the whole Balkans. Because we're the opposite of what you're for, which is because you don't have the political courage to solve any problems. You leave these problems behind for some generations to solve them. No, we'll solve the problems. If we can do our best to solve problems and not leave these problems for generations to come after us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64989	Thank you, Prime Minister. The word is Dr. Zlatibor Loncar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64990	I apologize, but only because of the people's MPs, because of all the citizens, and in order not to get the impression that we are only dealing with one topic here, the multiple sclerosis you mentioned, and that this is done under some pressure or anything, I have to tell the citizens of Serbia and all of you that, in addition to the latest medicines for multiple sclerosis, our competent republican expert commissions have decided that from the new year, the latest lung cancer therapy is coming and the latest therapy, one of the best currently, for hepatitis. So not just for one thing, which means we're thinking about everything else, not just one kind of disease and one person. So three of the latest treatments are coming up. Let me remind you that in this year we have introduced the latest melanoma therapy and a lot of other treatments and that no new therapy has ever been done and started again. I also have to tell you the citizens of Serbia, which therapy will be introduced, the decision is made by our biggest experts in the area. The decision cannot be made under the pressure of the pharmaceutical industry, any industry, any association, anything. When you know how much money we have, then expert commissions are doing an analysis of what for that money can do the best and the greatest effect, what can the best result and give the largest number of cured patients. It's the basis and that's how it's determined and that's how it's going to be determined while I'm in this place. There won't be any pressure, there won't be any pressure. Anyone can try, anyone can pay for the campaign, anyone can do it. I understand those people. They do, it's business, they invest that money to invent the cure, to make it, and then they have to start selling it to get that money back to earn it, but we have the health of our Serbian citizens and the greatest profit they can get at that moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64991	Thank you, Mr. Lonchar. The word now has Prime Minister Ana Brnabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64992	I'm sorry, I didn't answer one part of the question. I consulted with Deputy Prime Minister Stefanovic. So, I really don't think at this point we're going to use time to respond to factory affairs, like the factory affair "Krusik". Let the authorities say what they have to say about this affair. For me, this affair is really one indicator or compliment for everything we've done for our dedicated industry. While there was no dedicated industry, while the dedicated industry was on its feet, there was no affair. Now all of a sudden we're having affairs in different companies, in different companies of our own. I see it as an attack on our dedicated industry. She's much stronger today. She's much more solid today. She's bringing income to the budget today, hiring people, and not with small wages. We'll continue to invest in it. It is certainly your right, as an opposition, to try to fabricate whatever number of affairs you want to prevent us from talking about the results of everything that has been done since 2014. You only have, if you look at the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, really indicatively, this morning I tried to remember, only in the last 10 days how many factory affairs there have been. It was "Cruik", so the doctorate of Sinishi Mali. People are giving me the ultimatum to replace Minister Sinisha Mali, and they did not wait for the explanation of the Ethics Commission of Belgrade University. They didn't see that decision, they didn't see it at all, we didn't see it. The Belgrade University's Ethics Committee has not yet made a decision, an explanation why they rejected the report on 700 sides of the expert commission. It's the rule of law. They know, they saw what's true. In this assembly I said – you will look for a commission until you reach a commission that you can put pressure on to make any decision you want, and so it was. Five commissions passed that said it wasn't plagiarism. Two views of the expert commission. You found one, and you didn't wait for the explanation of that decision, and you said, "Separate the Minister of the Small." He was Sinisa Mali, so Nebojsa Stefanovic, so Minister Vulin and this organic food factory "Jovanjica". Yesterday we heard potentially the biggest affair in Serbia's history. Please, it's in time, it's an organic food factory, there was Alexander Vulin, so there was the Pannonian Sea there at the time. What exactly does that mean? Now he's a plagiarist of the Yelena Trivan. Just one piece of advice. You're making so many affairs, not only can we no longer respond to them, and I will really advise my ministers not to respond anymore, but to every affair that you produce that we respond with one result that we delivered to the citizens of Serbia, it's such a hyperinflation. People, you're having a new affair that matches your previous affair that you invented. As for Krusika, only some competent authorities do their job. We're a government that respects independent institutions, the rule of law, we have nothing more to say about this affair, there's anyone who's going to say anything about this affair. Generally, you know what, here's another affair you can, please, report to independent media. You know, I loved organic tomatoes from this "Jovanja," which means, I guess, as Prime Minister, I funded drug traffickers. This is another major affair in Serbia's history, perhaps one of the biggest ones, so we can talk about it next time. What I'm going to advise my ministers one more time is that every question about any more factory affair, since we have to answer every question and we don't get to talk about the results... We're here for the results, for the citizens, for what we've done for them. They gave you a mandate through you. Today I didn't have time to say, here, I would have killed myself now if I had come out of the Serbian Parliament not to say this, not to repeat what President Vukic announced today this morning when he opened a new "Jang Feng" factory in Kragujevac for 800 workers, for the first time in Serbia's history unemployment is one-digit, people. For the first time in Serbia's history, we have unemployment which is a single-digit, third-quarter unemployment of 9.5% this year. We have economic growth that will be 3.5% at least this year, as projected. We have two billion and 870m euros of foreign direct investment in the first nine months. That's 33% more than last year. Today another factory opened for 800 people in Kragujevac. Where do you want better things? Do you understand, honourable MPs, respected citizens, as far as we no longer arrive to talk about these things, things that are important to citizens, jobs, quality of life, wages, pensions, an increase in pensions of 5.4% since 1 January 2020, all because of the stupidity of defending ourselves why one minister was in one plant, in an organic food establishment? Well, really abnormal, really abnormal and really, after all, we're insane not to talk about the results, but to jump to defend really the things that you show two papers and see that those things that you're talking about don't make any sense, no connection to the relationship. So, as for Krusika, go ahead, you have control over independent bodies, you hold the judiciary, and the judiciary all of us in one control mechanism. Please insist, we know that we will insist that all these things be made clear and come clean because we are proud of the things we do, the way we do them, the energy we invest and the results we have for the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64993	Thank you, Prime Minister. Now the word has Mr. Vukadinović. Here you go, Mr. Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64994	Thank you. I'm the last one to deny that there's movement and that there's progress in various areas. That's not controversial. But in these other answers, probably unnecessarily so long, one dose is still being promoted, I would say the heroism and praise that citizens will best assess for themselves how real it is, including health care, and if I say not at all deny that progress has been made. What you said about the stadium being built, six stadiums in England, and so you tried to answer my remarks about this national stadium, it just shows, or casts doubts about other answers that seem convincing, and if they are just as serious, then we really have cause for concern. So these stadiums that are built, built by private funds, built by clubs, and not built by the state, and out of loans, or out of loans, as ours will build. Not to mention the quality of our English football, that kids should leave the street, that's true, but those kids from the street won't go to the national stadium to play sports, but they need them in their schools, in their local communities, in their neighborhoods. So again it's a superficial argument. Not to mention that you skipped out, but now it doesn't matter, about paying classes to answer, even though you've been answering for almost an hour, I'm saying that again for paying classes. As for the dedicated industry, we have it, we've had it before and it's done a pretty good job, but now it's got serious problems. Yes, thank you for your recommendation, and without it, we will continue to ask and investigate, not to undermine, but just to make it work better. As for a little inappropriate dictionary, you should probably be chaired to warn you, you said – it is hypocritical, etc. I could say for a part of your answers and accusations that they're a little hypocritical, but that's how it is, that's our political culture. We should all work on both sides of this hall and these tables, or these benches, to make it better. In order for it to be better, we must first take a fair look at ourselves and look ourselves in the eyes of all of us, Mrs. Brnabic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64995	Thank you, Mr. Vukadinovic. Now the word has Mr. Dragan Markovic. Here you go. Have Mr. Djuric prepare himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64996	Thank you. Honorable members of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to tell you that the opposition has managed to get you into their field and to deal with the answers to the lies they've been making lately. Everything they said has no basis for citizens to believe these false stories, but it has grounds that Mr. Police Ministers, when they led the police that police beat up workers who were employed in the flag at the time in Kragujevac, that they beat the unions, that you arrested drug dealers and drug dealers with no idea how many tons. It hasn't been done in the last 20 years. When it comes to the finance minister, I deal with the economy and it has never been more financial stability for the euro to rest, that you can take a loan in dinars, that your wars don't jump and that you have a credit ability at the same time as you took the loan and when you pay off the loan. It's all lies, but it's not a false threat, a gun pointed at the president of Serbia. It's an assassination attempt with visual stimulation. Slavica Djukic is a psychiatrist and knows what encouragement means. So some fool's gonna watch there, he's just left to go to the Kroll where that gun can be found. And we all deal with these topics, answer their stupid questions, and Serbian citizens are interested in the programme. What are you people offering, what your street offers, etc. When it was that they could do whatever they wanted, beat up women, get into RTS with a chain saw. No one was arrested, one night and released. Next time, if the respected ministers do not respond, they will enter with these guns, who knows how many they have and where they are. Serbia must be a free state, because citizens say, when they threaten the president of Serbia, so what are we going to do, what will happen to us if we think differently from the minority who cannot cross the censorship. Minister of Labour, you must fight to change the law. The labour law says: "He who does not go to work for three days, and does not bring medical assurance, is out of work." Six months, 180 days, you don't come to work, and you don't have confidence, and where's your job? On the street? To take out the signs, is that in your job description? We must also change the Rules of Procedure, that the Rules of Procedure can no longer favour MPs. He says we do. And where do you work? In the field? What are you doing in the field, what's the state's interest in that field? What's the score? So I can tell you that you are passive and say -- what will those who decide the fate of Serbian citizens, those from Europe, and I don't know, some big states say.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64997	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. Is one of the ministers answering? The word has a prime minister, Ana Brnabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64998	I fully respect the People's Parliament with you. That's exactly what I said. So we've moved on to this field where we defend ourselves against constantly new and new factory affairs instead of talking about the things that the citizens have chosen us for, for which they've given us the mandate and what our job is. I really think that we should impose that the results are only important and that we answer the affairs so much that we deny clear, obvious lies, and also invite the competent institutions to deal with these affairs. I can understand the honourable MP who spoke, whom I was not able to answer because of the Rules of Procedure, that the national stadium is not needed, as probably no other structural facilities are needed, because it is a waste of money. So it didn't take 15 years or the National Museum, so 10 years didn't take the Museum of Contemporary Art. I guess I don't need any modern concert halls in the Republic of Serbia. Then I would understand that these things were closed in 2003, 2007, because there was no money in the budget to work on and they were reopened, but the idea was to give more for the social, for unemployment. After all, unemployment was growing. I think 600,000 people lost their jobs during that period. That it was given for treatment, but unfortunately not, it wasn't built, but it wasn't given for treatment or social treatment. So where all that money went and that's a good question for the authorities. We know where 619m euros went. We know that. Whether that money might have been for the budget for the treatment of children or whether it was for the social budget or for training the unemployed or whatever, but I understand that there was no one else, that the money had ended up with someone else. Finally, again, so I absolutely agree, please let us talk about the results, not the factory affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u64999	Thank you, Prime Minister. The word has the Deputy Prime Minister and Interior Minister Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u65000	I want to thank Mr Markovic for continuing to support the fight against organised crime, primarily drug trafficking, and I think that we are all here together on the same mission, therefore, the National Assembly that adopts this kind of law. Thank the MPs who have always been on that line, who have always worked very hard to improve legal solutions and to make it possible to pursue those who are engaged in this illegal activity more effectively. I want to thank the people of the police, especially at the moment when there's a lot of pressure on those who are fighting in the police against drug traffickers, especially those departments, especially those people who are really express professionals in all rows of police and when they get through the mud. I have to say, I want to stand in the protection of these people because it's about top-notch professionals. To all people who work in the police, who have contributed by their actions that this year by 15 November we have seized over 6.2 tonnes of narcotics, which is an exceptional result that we have not had in Serbia's history before. I expect that this result will be significantly better during the year. This, of course, has been contributed primarily by police people, those who are the professional composition of the police, who are truly exceptional professionals and experts, those people who are there to make Serbian citizens safer. It's hard sometimes when I listen to them go through the mud, because they don't respond in one day or one moment to the goals of some people who, unfortunately, don't get over anything, would humiliate the people of the police and ask them to cut their wages, to eliminate certain units of police. The best thing to do is to put an end to the whole police force, it's best to let them be like when they were all and all. To be perfectly clear, you know who all those people were who decided all our fates in this country, what it looked like back then, and how they ruled Serbia. Fortunately, the majority of Serbian citizens, I am confident, supports not only the work of the police, but also all the honest and honest people in this country who want us to fight and successfully fight corruption and crime, that every year, as we do right now, we manage to bring down the crime rate, make people feel safer, better equipped with all our security services, have the capacity to fight and win anyone who thinks that our country's security is at risk. Especially what I'm glad to see is that the professionals in the police, all the people in the police, every cop, took seriously what I told them in 2014, that the fight against drug traffickers, all those who sell or want to sell drugs to our kids must be a priority. So thank them. Thank them sincerely from the heart for everything they risk every day, for paying for their families, for working hard and not watching what time it is when they fight it. Thank them for everything they've done and I'll always try to protect them from everyone, whatever price I'm gonna pay or I'm sure I can say that on behalf of all the other members of the government, we'll try to protect those people who really impress on the ground with their courage. Thank you, Mr. Markovic, for that support.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u65001	Thank you, Mr. Stefanovic. Do you have any other questions, Mr. Markovic? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u65002	I expect Mr. Djordjevic to answer and tell the citizens of Serbia, I don't know which member of the Labour Act, what happens to an employee in an institution that doesn't come to work, so the citizens can hear it? In a way, I will not say that this is an excuse that we are now changing the Rules of Procedure, but simply, those who vote for you not to work, and you who gain the trust of the people that you have the privilege in the Assembly. What they're going to say - I went out for breakfast across the street or for lunch. Well, here's the cheapest lunch in the world, cheaper than going to a bakery. So there's no excuse where you are. You didn't get a job unless you were a member of a committee, so you traveled to a country, on behalf of the state or the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I also ask Slavica to answer and tell the citizens, because you know, when there's a threat that a man will kill a woman and when that happens, we have at least five, six murders in a month. This is an incentive and a threat, and we have one smaller number, fortunately for us, citizens with a code that is missing and it's always someone who runs the country, etc. I'm looking for those two answers.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u65003	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. The word has the Minister of Labour Zoran Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u65004	I appreciate the question. Let me tell you, the employer is required to report if there is any abuse of official position or working time. In that case, the labour inspection is also required to come out and she will react by saying that, you said, if she does not appear unjustly at work, then the employer has the right in some way to punish or even to cancel the one who violates the law. So, in this case, but also in all other cases, the state has decided to fight the gray economy, against working on black, against abuse of official position, against work that is in some way something that is causing damage to that employer who hired someone like that. In this case, it is the citizens of Serbia, the people of Serbia who have just voted for those who are not here and who do not come and do harm, not only the employer of the National Assembly, but all the citizens of Serbia, because it depends on us and on you how good we will be to lead this country. Unfortunately, some of them took the right not to come, but also, as far as I know and got the information, they're regular at the register, every month they come to collect their salary and their transportation expenses and their transportation fees and a warm meal and everything else that belongs to them under the law, even though none of the only working hours have been done. So I invite both you and the National Assembly to see all legal acts as they can and how they punish all those who do not come. I believe there's both a warning and a punishment and a deduction from the salary and everything else that can be done. I would draw your attention to one more thing, which is – I spoke to Minister Loncar twice, because I couldn't believe that in our country since 2004, it was the very ones who didn't bring here here today that no specialization in our country existed or was approved. So by 2012, by the time Alexander Vukic arrived, we didn't have any of the only approved specializations. The first resident left in September 2012. So, nine or ten generations of students in our school didn't have the opportunity to go to specialization, and then we wonder why these doctors went abroad, why they went to school, why we missed medical staff and doctors. That's not the only problem. So, when someone went to special, and he left on September 2012, the first one ended this year in September. So we have a serious one trunk in our time where we won't have generations and generations of doctors. I think we need to seriously deal with how and how they ran the country, because it's not all about money. One thing is that they stole 619m euros, that's one thing, but maybe that's not the biggest damage. The greatest shame is that they have endangered the safety and health of the people and citizens of this country, because it will certainly be some of the next generations to suffer, and that is all we have to do. I think Minister Lonchar knows more about it. But again to get back to this before. I call upon the National Assembly and those who lead the National Assembly, if necessary, to call upon the work inspection and the work inspection to come out and advise and give a warrant to get out of all of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u65005	Thank you, Minister Djordjevic. The word now has Professor Slavica Djukic Dejanovic. Here you go, Professor.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u65006	I would, of course, like to thank Dragan Markovic Palma, an MP who has very secure access to this segment of work, asking parliamentary questions, and always with the idea of getting that answer that is positively driven to society. You know, this question doesn't get in the way that I'm responsible for in the government, but it's affecting the feeling of weakness that those who are trying in a sensational way, by inducing aggression to express their impotence. It's the people who say that Alexander Vukcic is a man of infinite trust. In recent history, we haven't really had, even in the history of election results, such a degree of trust in one man. Those who cannot reconcile with that fact choose ways, but not to induce sick people. People with mental disorders, and the birth-enhancing strategy brought by the ministry headed by Minister Loncar has been very well determined on this issue and refers to the 2026 period, is precisely about the existence and investment in institutions that are completely new, new to our conditions, and are called mental health centres. They will not induce them, because healthcare professionals and psychiatrists who have over 850 in Serbia know their jobs well. They will induce those who are hard to control their behavior, their anger and their infirmity. So, Dragan Markovic Palma is justifiably considering that visual induction, that verbal induction to aggression, especially when it comes to personalities like President Vukic, is something that scares citizens and is something that we have to, absolutely get up and react to everyone. So, as a doctor, as a psychiatrist in the extreme case as a member of this government, I'd like to say that directed any way of aggression at the president of the state, with one particularization that children understand, is just a message of the powerless. I've got more to regret than that, and we've got to convict them.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u65007	Thank you, Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic. Now the word has Dr. Zlatibor Lonchar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u65008	Mr. Markovic, as one of the most experienced politicians, you know, there's no need to explain things to you, but here's the topic that's mentioned I want to make everyone happy. We inherited what we inherited, something we managed to say in which direction that system went, as long as it all came, that would have hit us. You know what steps we're taking ourselves, what we're doing in order to do, what we had to do to stop it, and then get going and fix it. I want to tell you, from three days ago, that there was a competition at the Clinical Centre of Serbia, 58 nurses were accepted. Of which 20 sisters went abroad a while ago, which at private clinics, 20 sisters returned Monday and came to stay at the Clinical Centre, to stay in Belgrade, to stay in Serbia. Don't forget that it's sisters with great experience, years of experience that they've been doing, some of them were sisters. That's what the situation was, and that's what it says is the current situation and what we're doing with what we're supposed to be and what we're fighting for. What Mr. Markovic says to the opposition and affairs. You know a lot. Here's to telling you and the citizens of Serbia that there's something about it. They have two three brilliant moves that they themselves have made. One of those moves is this boycott. They did it without a mentor. That's what they agreed to do. The other their genius move is this shameful, scandalous, whatever you want, this front page of the NIN. It is not right for this assembly to pass without reminding the citizens of Serbia, the teacher said professionally, that it is a reflection of impotence. I think it's a reflection when hate prevails, when passion overcomes, and you have no solution to the problem. Mr. Markovic, these are their two decisions the citizens will have the right to make. As far as their other decisions are concerned, even though someone thinks they're bringing up these factory affairs and all that. They have nothing to do with it. They're just readers of what foreign mentors give them. They just read the questions and they have, they have to make lines how many times they read these questions a day, how many times they went to a press conference at Alexander Vukic's, Nebojsa's, Anna's, or anyone's. How did they get that information? They got all that information from our people, all of our people who worked and worked on some responsible functions. They took that information under the pretext of doing something good for our country, but for another friendly country that wants us to do good, so just to give them that information, they'll use it to us in the war against who and what. Dear Serbian citizens, dear Mr. Markovic, that's how it works. None of their questions are. It is all a question of foreign agents who do not want Serbia to run its own policy that has only an interest in Serbia's progress and better for Serbian citizens. That's what everybody needs to know. Always remember, our people often say that – beware of your friends, with your enemies will be easy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u65009	Thank you, Dr. Lonchar. The word is made by Prime Minister Ana Brnabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u65010	Thank you. Let me just add a few words. Here's the front page, the famous front page of the NIN. The message can't be clearer. I think we all agree on that. It can't be a clearer message. I will keep her safe, as long as I am in this place, that whenever I speak, from now on, with European Parliamentarians, EU representatives, the European Commission, various international organisations, whenever we talk about freedom of the media, European values, democracy, democratic society, to be there for me to explain what they really mean. What does that all mean? Are these civil European values? What's, uh, extra interesting now. You've got something new every day, so that's what happened when that hanger scandal was on the terraces, and then they accused the SNS of being behind those gallows. And then they all passed it on to the so-called. Independent media, like bomb information. When it turns out they're Davery, there's no information anywhere else. No one from the Alliance for Serbia talks about it anymore. So that's how it was for burning books. They've again accused the SNS of burning the books. When the MUP barely somehow found evidence, because without any evidence they wouldn't believe what actually happened, then no one else was there. There was no one to apologize to those citizens, or Marinika Tepic, or Bastac, or Gilas, or anyone else, and there was no sign in the media anymore, that independent. It's just a missing topic. And so everything goes schizophrenic. They do something, then they end up accusing the government again. When you prove it, then it no longer exists as a topic. So yesterday, this front page came out, that is, this NIN came out this morning, so it was withdrawn, so they just downloaded this photo that they cut so nicely, they croaked, to make sure they gave exactly the clearest possible message. When the owner reacted. Reacted by the owner, said aman people, in a country where the president of the government was killed a few years ago with a sniper, it's really not right. It's not that value, so as much as we want to criticize that power and as much as we don't love Alexander Vukic and that government, it's not right. Take it off. What happened today? They're accusing us of censorship. Imagine, now it's our fault again. Well, completely out of your mind, now it's our fault for censorship. Then what happens today? Just before I came to the Assembly, I watch the news, a respected MP who receives a salary, but does not come to work, Mr Miroslav Aleksic, has a press conference and what does the day after this cover story, which is a direct attack on Alexander Vukic, says – the owner of the agricultural goods "Jovanjica" in which a large amount of marijuana was found, first called after the arrest? Andrew Wolfie. It goes on, every day, they don't have a single day's break. They don't have half an hour's break. So it doesn't matter. Now the front page, someone's there, there's the owner who made them take off the front page, accuse the government of accusing Vukic of doing it. Here, here's the censorship, here's how there's no freedom of the media, and at the same time, Andrei Vukic said that the man who owns the agricultural goods we found, this government, this Home Office, we found that plantation. Now, he says - I have reliable information that he first called Andrej Vukic and I call on the D.A. to come forward about this knowledge. Well, I'm calling on the D.A. to finally respond. Is it true or isn't it true? People, if it's not true, then charge that Alexic! Is this how politics should be run in Serbia? Is there enough persecution for one family? What does this look like? Then he says -- besides Andrej Vukic, the owner has often contacted Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic, perhaps that's why Nebojsa is not answering. Imagine, the minister who ordered the ministry to go there. Do you understand how out of your mind that is? What's going on in this Serbia? So, totally insane. Finally, who heard that Gavrilo Kovacevic, a member of Belgrade City Council, was attacked? How many people have heard? Why? Because they can't hear. I guess it's because there's no freedom of the media in this country, because I guess we're talking about what's going to be written in the media. No, because he's not Borko Stefanovic, that's why people haven't heard. Because a member of the SNS today in Serbia is allowed to break your head with a baseball bat, that's allowed. It is allowed, as you are allowed to directly call for the murder of the legitimately elected President of the Republic, and immediately proceed with the attacks on his family tomorrow. The D.A.'s got to get in the way of that. I call on the D.A. – please report this information. But if not true, charge Mr. Alexic with lying. Once you start from something to make it possible to live normally in this country, work normally, and to allow us, as Government, to have time to do our job for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, not to constantly and continuously defend ourselves again and again against such fools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u65011	Thank you, Prime Minister. The word has the Secretary of Defense, Mr. Alexander Vulin. Here you go, Mr. Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u65012	The Honorable President, Prime Minister, the Honorable Ladies and gentlemen of Ministers, comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, you know, I am now, and forgive me for being a little late, I have now been on the property of the Vrtogoš and the base of the Chuk personnel, in the land zone of security, where our army is taking care and making sure that every inch of our territory is protected, safe, that no political, separatist provocations that can occur in that area in any way do not endanger the everyday life of each of us, all of us Serbian citizens, regardless of religion, nationality. I was now with our boys and girls in the land zone, who don't mind being cold, who don't mind that it rains, who don't complain that it is, who are infinitely proud to be in Serbia's military and to guard our country. So if you'll excuse me for being late, but please welcome them all together, they're following this. You know, instead of being proud today that for the second time in a year, the Serbian Army has received a salary raise, which is no longer a single soldier who has at least one set of new boots and at least two sets of new uniforms, instead of today talking about how proud we are of the Supreme Commander, I mean President Vukic, who is able to resist all the pressures that come from any part of the world and to preserve our foreign policy, to preserve our policy of military neutrality, we will have to deal with one liar who responds to the name Alexic. But what do we do, it's politics, and we have to do it, and since the D.A. doesn't react, because the courts don't react, I gave this Alexic the opportunity to prove all his lies in court. We go to court, when he doesn't want a court, I'll sue him. So, Alexic's every honest crime scene or, at the very least, suspicious. He sees the minister reading tomatoes, picking radishes, must be some kind of crime. It's impossible for a man to work with his own hands. He didn't do it. You know, I'm a peasant kid, I'm not ashamed to work with my 10 fingers. I'm proud of my Dragutin and my Job. They taught me how to do 10 fingers and that it should be helped, so when you see the host fall, then when you see that he doesn't arrive before the rain to pick up the hay, and you come to help. In 2015, with the leadership of the National Employment Service, I came to Jovanica because we received information that not only there, but in all the agriculture around Belgrade lacks seasonal workers. I brought the entire leadership of NSZ to see a little firsthand how they live and how they do the ones they need to hire and I'm not ashamed of it and I'm proud of it and I'd always do it again. Although I could have known in 2015 what would happen in 2019, then that scum did not accuse the Brotherhood of the Hilandar monastery, which had received that same Colovia into its Brotherhood and gave him the blessing that his company and property was named after the Hilandar monastery, is Luka Jovanica? Why don't you tell the scum that? It's not conveniently political, because you know that the people would immediately see what you're saying, because you know that the people would say right away – here they are, lying, accusing Hilandar, they want Hilandar to charge drug trafficking because one man has betrayed their trust. Is that what they're gonna do? He won't. They know it's not smart to do it, they know it's not politically smart to do it, but they're going to try to find one of us so they don't spit sweetly, and they're used to us keeping quiet, they're used to us not defending ourselves, they're used to running from courts, they're used to saying, "Oh, let it go, fool," they'll pass. It won't work. Why didn't he accuse me of cleaning up Star park? After that in that Star park, there were also fights, there were drug addicts, there were everything and everything, our police fight against them every day. Why don't you accuse me of being guilty of that, too? Yeah, I was cleaning up Star park. Why didn't he accuse me of every disease that happened in Belgrade from an allergy? Yeah, I was cleaning up in Stepa Stepanovic's Ambrosia field because it couldn't have been different. Why don't you accuse me of that, too? Every honest work, everything that looks like honest work, it's all a cause for spit, for hate, for lies. In this country put the Prime Minister in front of a sniper rifle, put the president of the state in front of a sniper rifle and pretend it's normal. We have to wait for the newspaper owner to have mercy, to say, to introduce common sense. Do we have to wait for that? Do we have to wait for the owner to have mercy? Is there any law in this country, is there any common sense in this country, how much morality? Ladies and gentlemen, I've been editing a magazine, not just one, but I'm talking about a political magazine that was very critical of the government at the time. That we didn't put Tadic in front of the sniper. How many seconds do you think I should be arrested, locked up and thrown away the key that I put Boris Tadic in and photographed him behind the sniper? How many introductions do you think I'd get about how Zoran Djindjic was killed in this country, and here I am, the one who wants to kill his successor? Doesn't that apply to Wolfie? Why don't they kill him, huh? He can kill himself? What doesn't anybody think about it, he has kids, he has people who love him? Why don't they think about him? Who wants to stand in front of the sniper? Who wants to put him in front of the sniper? Who wants you to accuse him of scurrying with drug dealers because he was picking tomatoes? Shame on you! If you had any shame, you'd probably be ashamed. But as our people say, fear not him who fears nothing, feareth him who is not ashamed of anything. My peasants like to say – he gave cheeks in the arena. He gave his cheek to the arena, as he sold his party to Vuk Jeremic. Why isn't he talking about how much money he's got for not talking about a criminal gang that's got the whole world listening to Wolf Jeremic? He found someone to attack because with his 10 fingers he wanted to do something, he wanted to show something. Come on, dare you, accuse the Hilandarian Brotherhood of accusing all the customers in Maxie, accusing Maxie of selling organic tomatoes, which they didn't know was about to be charged with illegal opiate production tomorrow, and that's not what someone in whose coalition is the people who advocate the legalization of cannabis. Well, they don't understand that they arrested him at all. They don't even know why they're arresting that man. They fight for marijuana to be legal. They don't even know what they're doing. Well, those people smoke marijuana in public. Well, should I remind you of Bastache? They don't even understand why they arrested him. They are angry with Minister Stefanovic for arresting traders and drug dealers when Bastac cannot smoke legally, but must illegally supply marijuana. They don't understand anything. They don't understand this Serbia. They don't understand that their hatred won't bring them any political point. She won't see any good. Of course every one of us gets upset, hurts. I've been in politics for 30 years, but I don't want to hide anything from you that upsets me. I have two sons. Do they need to listen that their father was a drug dealer? Is that what they need to listen to? I'm supposed to explain to them the difference between picking tomatoes and working with my 10 fingers, with scum and thugs putting us in that bike where they play themselves. I don't hide from you that I'm upset, I don't hide from you that I'm angry, I don't hide from you that I'm disgusted with such people, and I hope that once in this country, the court will be a benchmark for everything, that we'll go to court once, he and I, if it turns out that I've been picking tomatoes, and he's trying to do that, on that hatred and evil, to those lies. He picks up some pathetic political point, if that's what political points are for at all, so let me hear one big apology, let me hear him say it and admit he's a liar. If he won't, at least let the court make him do it. There's a court in this country. Once again, I ask all the courts and prosecutors to respond when something like this is heard and done. Don't wait any longer for some boss to have mercy on a death warrant, a warrant, an attempted murder to get away with his own good will. There must be law in this country. It is not a good will not to threaten the death of the President of the Republic or any citizen of this country. It's not a good will, it's the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u65013	Thank you, Mr. Vulin. Mr. Markovic has two minutes to comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u65014	Thank you. I also have two recommendations. One recommendation is for the minister of education, to inform all schools that have the possibility and there are enough classrooms to be able to enroll from next year on those professions that used to be, which are craftsmen, since they are deficits in Serbia, such as welders, carpenters, carpenters and ceramics. The second recommendation is, given that this year has been dry, that much less wheat and wheat has been sown this year than it was the previous year, what is it that is the recommendation of the Ministry of Agriculture for agricultural producers? What agricultural culture do they sow to know that this agricultural culture has a market tomorrow and that they can live off their work?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u65015	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. Now the word is Mr. Vladimir Djuric. Here you go. (Dragan Markovic: Is there a minister of education? It is, but there is no possibility of a minister answering now. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Djuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u65016	Thank you, Chairman. It's exactly 18.45 hours now. This session takes up to 19.00 hours, and I am almost certain that if I have this long to answer parliamentary questions, we will not be able to hear my final comment, and my parliamentary rights will be damaged.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u65017	We'll be there, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u65018	You, as chairman, have allowed the Secretary of Defense, and now you allow the other MPs to earn. You've allowed the Secretary of Defense to present some private disturbances here as well. I understand that he had the need to bring it out here, but it's not business time for that. He could've called a press conference in the lobby, so he could've said all that in this house, too. But my question that I want to delegate here is about what we talked about until this campaign of answering to affairs started. It seems to me somehow to the affair manufacturers and the discoverers of the affair and to you these affairs very much fit, because then you can crash for an hour and then we can't deal with life issues, which we did at the beginning of this village, we were dealing with the environment, for example. and issues of funding social policies in the family. I want to delegate Minister Antića to the question of what he will do about the EPS investment needs, because, according to the latest analyses, the EPS capacity will soon be insufficient to meet the growing needs and there will be a need for huge investment in new capacities, it will be necessary to replace the time-consuming capacity and replace and redistribute existing capacities to protect the environment, as the EPS has become one of the largest environmental pollutants in Serbia. I've said it today, and I'm going to say it again -- one Te "bone B" emits 130 thousand tons of carbon dioxide a year. It's a show equal to the total emissions of all German thermal power plants. So, in the last five years, EPS production has been dropping. Eight percent is smaller than in 2013. The EU rules would cost EPS 500m euros and the existing EPS production model would be completely economically invaluable, and I will give another piece of information provided by the Energy Community in this House of the National Assembly. If the European rules on emissions of harmful gases were currently in force for Serbia, and if Serbia had to pay quota and foam emissions for excessive emissions and air poisoning that citizens breathe, so that the additional cost of these pens would be spent on electricity and on end-users, the electricity in Serbia would have to add as much as 24%. I remind you that the EPS has committed to implement European environmental requirements by 2027. I wonder if there's even a plan for these huge, massive investments, because the EPS investment trunk in the last six years is... The EPS has already been late with a minimum of 400m euros in investment in the past six years only to the level of depreciation, and investments are needed over this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u65019	Thank you. The word has Minister Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u65020	First of all, I can't get along with all your data. There's a lot of inaccuracy in your data, indifference, and I can say freely for a little bit of traditional malacity coming from the Energy Community Secretariat, which when some data is presented, for example, on the non-CO2 emissions, you said CO2, this is about SO2, "Kostolac" and "Kostolac B", just ignores the fact that it's a 2016 analysis, and that the EPS built a smoke gas-discharge facility in "Kostolac B" and that it was part of the first phase of the Kostolac project that we did with our Chinese partners, so today we have a smoke gas-resuming facility in "Kostolic". It's not a secret, and the prime minister and I and the president have talked with us several times on the subject that the EPS should have a far stronger investment policy. On the other hand, I have to say quite openly and completely clear that the EPS has been subinvested to some extent over the past period as a result of the fact that Serbia has the lowest electricity price in Europe. In objective terms, the Republic of Serbia, if we exclude Ukraine, Moldova, which has a certain other methodology and if you observe Eurostat data, they are moved against the Western Balkans and EU countries, Serbia with the lowest electricity price cannot have such a strong investment policy and it is quite clear. That is why we, with measures to consolidate the EPS, primarily its financial stability and sustainability in this period, were based on increasing efficiency, reducing network losses, and we are very successful there. We've cut them by a few percent over the last few years, raise the bill and streamline the number of employees. In those segments, let me say, we've achieved quite a good result. The World Bank and the IBRD, which monitors these processes, agrees with that, above all, in front of the IMF. On the other hand, we have a surplus against the requirements of the Serbian electricity market at the annual net level. So Serbia is a net exporter of electricity and this wave has been going on for several years. You know that in 2014, we had those heavy floods that, first of all, hit the Kolubara Basen and where our largest coal mine was submerged and from that moment on, we had to change certain technologies, first of all, in the Colubara, and we're doing pretty well. It's not true that every year our electricity production falls. For us, realistically, compared to 2013, a few percent drop in the thermal sector, for example. In 2016 very well compensated for production in the hydro sector and in 2016 we had 36.5,000 gigawatts of electricity lessons, which is one very good production. For example, in 2012, there were 34 thousand, so 36, 34, so that's significant more in 2016. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the So it's around here all the time. There are some variations that depend on hydrology and the quality of coal. To move on to what I think is the essence of your question. So I told you this about SO2 is not true. We built a smoke exhaust facility in the Kostolc. When it comes to other investments, we have invested more than 400m euros in ecology over the past few years. On all our thermal capacities that will work after 2023, electric filters have been made and thus we have solved dusty pollution. We solved the denitrification on almost everything. For "The Bone" I said, the decommissioning facility was done when it comes to Tent A. At this point, the project is being implemented, an investment weighs 170m euros, and the project works with the Japanese consortium "Micubishi Hitaci", until 2023, when we have an obligation to implement it, we will end it. At this point, we end funding, or negotiate funding related to TENT B's absence. So 400m euros have already been realised. At this point, and what is planned is an investment of about 800m euros in ecology. That's how we solve these existing blocks. In parallel with that, we're doing replacement capacity. You know we're building a "Costolac" Block B3 power 350 megawatts. The project should be completed in 2021. This brings us new 350 megawatts, which are around 4-5% of our production and we have made a decision on the EPS Supervisory Board, I expect the Government of the Republic of Serbia will very quickly confirm this, and is in the draft budget, or already adopted budget, a guarantee of 446m euros for the realization of another thermo-block 300-350 megawatts in Kalenić, that is Kolubara B. It's a project that we continue to realise, it started somewhere in the 1990s, stopped due to financial inability at the time. Today we have the strength to carry on with it. In parallel with that, we're doing a revitalization of our key hydrocapacity. I'd like to remind you that in Gjerdap, we've made five generators, we've increased their strength, we've given them a new working century for 40 years. We signed an agreement with "Silvia Machines" to revitalise "Gerdapa 2". We've already done the speaker. We're planning some additional projects in the hydrosector, and above all I'm thinking about the sea power plants, some 150 megawatts that we're negotiating. We're planning the Ibarian, that's what was part of the Italian agreement. Unfortunately, the agreement with Italy has not been realised, we are now "divorce" from it and entering a new cycle. Finally, I end up with renewable sources. The EPS cannot be the only investor in the energy sector. We now have more than 500 megawatts of new ones on the network from renewables. It's private investment, but on the other hand, the EPS does such projects. Serbia's power plant is developing a project of 66 megawatts in Kostolc, a wind farm. It's to be their first project from the renewables, and we're planning very intensively, and we're talking pretty quietly while we're planning it, but that's why we're doing a lot of, hopefully, work, so 100 megawatts of solar park in Kostolic, also an EPS investment. We've got dumps, we've got those finished parts where the coal exploitation was done. Our estimate is that these locations are ideal for new solar parks. So, first of all, citizens, but also the National Assembly, sleep peacefully, EPS, all energy companies provide the country's energy stability today, but also work very intensively to have a completely secure energy situation and in the future, and that is what I think is important for all Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u65021	The word has the People's MP Vladimir Djuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u65022	Thank you. I think this is going to be final now, so I'm going to try, since seven hours is coming. Your status information in the EPS is in conflict with the Fiscal Council, and then I don't know if this government should possibly lift the Fiscal Council. The investment plan I expected to hear from you is that the EPS investment will increase by 200, 250m euros a year, even worse, to provide 1.1 billion euros that the Fiscal Council says is needed to secure coal production, or to tell me that these data are simply incorrect, but then we will really ask the credibility of the Fiscal Council, which is the data that you consider incorrect. This is 1.1 billion euros in investment needed to expand coal production. That's 10% of the annual income and budget receipts. It's huge money. Another problem, the non-profitability of the EPS. EPS is ten times less profitable than comparable companies. Even if it raised profits to 200, 250m euros, it would only be 60% profitability with comparable companies. Yes, you said, it is true that the price of electricity in Serbia is low. Ukraine is the only one with a lower electricity price in Europe. And, of course, it's also some price of social peace and it's an emergency, but it's obviously going to have to come up with an increase in electricity. However, the problem with the systematization of employees, therefore, the EPS must also give you as a competent ministry a plan to resolve the surplus staff for which the Fiscal Council estimated to be around 15% to 20%. And 30% are employees' costs in the production of EPS. That's huge. You have a service activity, you have a racio, says it should be 50-30-20, 50% are employee costs, 30% are all other costs, 20% is profit. It's logical for service activities that don't have the cost of depreciation of huge, huge equipment. The EPS can't be compared. That's why 30% of the cost of EPS employees is huge. We expect to hear this plan, because these are strategic things that will have to be dealt with for the next five, 10, 15 years, because we have already come to the point that the demand for electricity is on the way over the production capacity of the EPS in the next five years. One more thing I'd like to do as an additional question and additional information. It was a lovely debate. I believe that the prime minister spends a lot of her time on the material condition of families with children, but I have to ask here a very specific thing, which I don't know if I'm going to get a concrete answer – when we're going to get amendments and additions to the Law on the financial support of families with children? It's a promise that's been waiting for more than a year now, because there's no money in the maternity and mother budget. It's 64 billion like last year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u65023	Thank you. The word has Minister Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u65024	First of all, I want to say that we are working very hard on these investments in the mining sector. Dear People's MPs, the EPS will produce 40 million tonnes of coal on spears in Kolubara and Kostolac this year. We are one of the largest producers in Europe. These coal systems move around all the time. We have to do 40 million next year and these investments are continuous. We have about a billion in the plan, as much as the Fiscal Council says, but you know it's not the Fiscal Council's genius, but it's written in the E.P.S. business plans and our Energy Development Strategy. So, the opening of a replacement dig in Radljevo and Field E, these are investments in the next five, six years, about a billion. We've already taken the first banger to Radljev. This year we enter into an investment of 200 – 250m euros, two systems, BTO for Radljevo and Polje E. You know, one of those systems - the buffer, the delayer, the transporter is more than 100m euros. So these investments are big. Finally, I want to tell you, don't worry about coal production, let us trust the EPS, there are really serious people who are seriously aware of strategy and planning. There's one thing I need to tell you. My dear MP, in 2005, there were 64,000 employees in the EPS system. There are 28,000 people working in the EPS today. If we take another number of those who are on KIM and we take that in some of the austorious actions some work for the sole purpose of EPS, it's 34,000 people. Thirty thousand less than in 2005. So the system improves, the system works well. Of course, there's criticism, so the criticisms are sometimes in place, and sometimes they're pretty much a part of someone, let's just say, the already learned environment. Many, I have to say the fiscal advice that I greatly respect, often and too often experience an EPSkol boxing bag and likes to hit on it and when there's a reason, and there are sometimes, but also when it's not there.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u65025	Thank you. The word has Minister Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u65026	Thank you. I'll try to be brief, since I assume you expected there would be no answer, since it's over, but only briefly. A billion more in the budget is for social and maternity care. Slavica Djukic Dejanovic has money in her budget for it. Local self-government separates the money for maternity care and I will remind you that the president said in the 200m-euro investment plan, and 24 billion will be in next year for maternity care. I am grateful to the president, not only did he initiate these changes when he came as president, which he stood at the head of the state when it came to recognising the problem demographically, but today what he still recognizes is precisely these results, which the president was saying, are the result of all this. I believe that all that I have said, these 24 billion, these additional billions, this is all that Slavica Djukic Dejanovic does, I believe that next year the Prime Minister will have much better results to come before us, because the most important thing is to change the demographic image. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u65027	Thank you. Here's your comment.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u65028	I'll try not to use the full two minutes since we've wasted session time. I'd just like to answer to Minister Djordjevic. One billion is not enough. With budget rebalances, eight billion have increased the rights of beneficiaries in the area of family and child protection, social protection benefits from the budget. Eight billion is increased in rebalancing. At the meeting of the competent assembly committee of your ministry's representatives, it is our question – whether these eight billion are meant to increase maternity and mother benefits, answered - no, these eight billion budget rebalances are taken to compensate for the missing funds that we missed in 2019 to budget for the payment of these small payments of 850 or 2,500 dinars, how many a thirds, for example, 20,000 mothers, maternity, get in Serbia, because they were suspended by the application of this law. The money needed to guarantee these mothers' minimum wage levels, we calculated for 20,000 mothers, so let's say 30,000, is somewhere around 11 billion dinars a year. The state crashed 22 billion on court sentences and penals, on "energy green", on "constrasts", on the AIK guarantee fee, etc. In violation of citizens' rights to trial within a reasonable period, two and a half, three billion, say, because the courts are late. So, fiscal priorities are not well-set, and reforms are not going in the direction where they are most needed, and I think that maternity pregnant women and that category are very socially endangered and that we are not dealing with propaganda, but that we are dealing with facts, and here is the division that shows that the additional money is not budgeted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-11-28-1.u65029	Thank you for your comment. I thank all the ministers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia who came to the session, who participated in our work. I thank the MPs of the National Assembly. This concludes this part of the session and tomorrow at 10.00 we continue to work according to the laws we started this morning. Thank you.
