ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-15-1.u57967	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the 14th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that the sitting is attended by 117 peoples. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 140 MPs are present in the hall and that we have the necessary majority and conditions for the work of the National Assembly. In accordance with Article 86(2) and Article 87(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I shall inform you that this session has been convened within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and extremely for Monday, therefore, past the days set out in Article 87(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for laws in the agenda set out in the request of the Government as soon as possible. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with a call from the session of the 14th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly called upon at the Government's request, pursuant to Article 106(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 48(3). Law on the National Assembly and Article 249. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, you have been sent a request to hold an extraordinary session of the National Assembly with a certain agenda contained in that request. The meeting of the 14th Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th session was set out as follows: The draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Regulation of Public Debt of the Republic of Serbia, on the basis of the non-payment of foreign currency savings laid down by the banks whose head office is located in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and their branches in the territories of the former republics of the SFRY, the Proposal for a Law on Reciprocal Administrative Assistance in Tax Issues, the Proposal for a Law on Trade, the Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Trade, the Proposal for a Law on Stock Exchanges. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic, on the basis of Article 92(2) of Article 157(2) and Article 170. The Rules of Procedure proposed that a joint principled, uniform search be carried out: - on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Republic of Serbia on the basis of unpaid foreign exchange savings from banks whose head office is located in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and their branches in the territories of the former republics of the SFRY and the proposal for a law confirming the Convention on mutual administrative assistance in tax matters; and - a joint principled search on: the proposal for a law on trade, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on e-commerce and the Proposal for a Law on Stock Exchanges. I'm asking the promoter if he'd like a word? No, I don't. I thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 137, no one, with abstentions, voted four MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. We're going to work on a set agenda. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly inform you that today they are invited to attend: Minister of Finance Siniša Mali, as well as his associates at the Ministry of Finance, as well as the Head of Public Debt of the Ministry of Finance, Deputy Director of Public Debt and Senior Advisor at the Public Debt Administration at the Ministry of Finance, as well as the Deputy Minister of Finance. I am asking MPs' groups if they have not already done so to apply for a word with the order of MPs. Pursuant to Article 157(2) and to Article 170. I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly a joint, principled, single search on: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Regulation of Public Debt of the Republic of Serbia on the basis of the unpaid foreign savings of citizens laid down by banks whose head office is located in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and their branches in the territories of the former republics of the SFRY and the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Convention on Mutual Administrative Assistance in Tax Matters. I'm asking if the finance minister's representative wants to say it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-15-1.u57968	Thank you very much. Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, honourable MPs, you have before you a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the regulation of the public debt of the Republic of Serbia on the basis of the unpaid foreign savings of citizens laid down by banks whose head office is located in the territory of Serbia and their branches in the territories of the former republics of the SFRY. The law amends and complements the law that was passed in order for the Republic of Serbia to comply with the European Court of Human Rights ruling in the case of Alisic and others against BiH, Croatia, Serbia, Slovenia and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. The amendments to the law extend the deadline for decision of the public debt administration following applications, the number of half-yearly wars from ten to eight and the move to start payments by six months. The deadlines are moved primarily because of the inability to save to obtain documentation from the competent institutions in the former republics by 23 June 2019 and gain the right to the outturn of old foreign currency savings. I am primarily here thinking of a confirmation of the non-use of foreign exchange savings from the competent authorities in the Republic of Croatia, the issue of foreign exchange savings recorded in the single account of BiH citizens, as well as the treatment of claims based on savings from the bank at KIM. These are precisely the problems of obtaining the prescribed documentation in the Republic of Croatia and BiH that have prevented the completion of the application for foreign savings from these countries. Given that the Public Debt Administration is due to deliver all the solutions to the savings this year by 23 June without having available for the reasons I have listed the necessary data, it is estimated that the six-month extension is necessary in order to minimise the risk of error in the decision-making process as well as to protect the reputation risk of the Republic of Serbia. Dear MPs before you today is also the Law confirming the Convention on Mutual Administrative Assistance in Tax Matters. In fact, the 2008 financial crisis has affected the realization that existing co-operation instruments between states in tax matters and tax institutes themselves are not adequate. Large exchanges of tax ejaculation and tax avoidance have led to the need to intensify activities at international level in order to create new rules in the matter of international taxation and administrative co-operation in tax matters. The OCDE Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development has worked jointly with the Council of Europe to create a legal basis for better administrative co-operation between tax-related states in order to reduce opportunities for tax avoidance. It is precisely the result of this work to improve the 2010 Convention, and this Convention allows for the exchange of information on taxpayers for all tax forms, by granting signatories the right to limit that scope to one that meets their needs and opportunities. In addition to introducing a legal basis for the automatic exchange of notifications, the signing of the Convention also allows for an increase in the number of countries with which our country exchanges those notifications. Serbia has so far exchanged notifications from 54 countries under the double taxation Treaty, while the number has increased to 128 countries by signing the Convention. The Convention for the Republic of Serbia should enter into force on 1 December 2019. I hope that you will vote to amend the first and this new law and I am at your disposal for any question you have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-15-1.u57969	Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want a word? The word is Alexandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-15-1.u57970	The President-in-Office, respected ministers and fellow MPs, on the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Public Expension Control, we had the opportunity to hear in detail from the Finance Minister's co-worker on the reasons for which the deadline is extended, i.e. that all the reasons set by the minister were in fact in order to achieve the interests of the Serbian citizens who live here, because they do not have complete documentation to fulfil their rights, i.e. to collect debt during the time of the SFRJ and the relevant banks. These banks, of course, are all in bankruptcy and that right to achieve it is necessary to complete their documentation. That is why it is in fact an outing of Serbia's citizens to exercise their right in full capacity. As for the Convention discussed by the minister, it is very important that Serbia is in the process of implementing its reforms, improving its work, because the General Secretariat of the Council of Europe has one so-called. a black list of countries that simply don't want to deal with tax policy and tax issues in the way they prescribe those standards. That is why it is important why you have today and proposed this law, because Serbia in the future, since it has entered this global network relating to tax policy, shows that it goes to the shoulder with economically developed countries in which it simply implements this policy. This, of course, was not possible until the moment until Serbia implemented its economic reforms and fiscal consolidation. As we can see, the results are not only accurate, when we talk about the results and the government of the Republic of Serbia and the president of the state, but we see that, in fact, the acceptance of such a world international organisation is, in fact, one recognition of Serbia for what it has done in recent years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-15-1.u57971	Thank you. The word has the first authorised representative, Ivan Bauer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-15-1.u57972	Thank you, President. Dear ministers with associates, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the Social Democratic Party of Serbia parliamentary group, will support all proposed laws on the agenda of today's session. The Convention on Mutual Administrative Assistance in Tax Issues was adopted in Strasbourg on January 25, 1988, but the practice has shown, especially since you said the Ministers of Excitation of the World Economic Crisis in 2008, that the tax ejaculation on the international agenda takes on such a situation that this Convention needs to be upgraded, or complemented, as you wish. This work has been entrusted to the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, i.e. the OECD and the Council of Europe, and its result is an updated version of the Convention, which is today in front of us, which took effect on 1 June 2011, which was signed a month ago by the Republic of Serbia, of course, with certain reserves, notice and accompanying declaration. These reserve notifications and the accompanying declaration are something that is in accordance with the Convention, i.e. the possibility provided by the Convention to States signatories, i.e. the jurisdiction of the signatories, since there are some legal ones, so to speak, entities which are not States which have signed this Convention, therefore, for the reason that it is possible that those jurisdictions at a given time, when they sign the Convention, do not possess all possible capacities necessary for its full implementation. With Serbia the Convention today has 129 signatories and among those signatories are all G20 countries, all OECD countries and all BRIKS countries, i.e. Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa, including some countries that are considered tax paradises, which I think is very important for its economy. The Convention is the most comprehensive multilateral instrument available to combat tax evasion and tax avoidance, but with the protection of the basic rights of taxpayers. It creates opportunities for international co-operation to improve domestic tax legislation, but also provides administrative co-operation to countries through which they can improve their assessment and collection of taxes. Because of its content and its global character, it certainly represents a broader and more complete framework than any bilateral agreement that, as the minister said, we have signed with different countries and therefore represents a superior instrument for control. Not to mention that information collected through the application of this Convention can also be useful in the fight against corruption, international corruption, money laundering and terrorist financing. So, it is a very important document for the Republic of Serbia and certainly it is very important that we sign this document, which we have already done, and also to confirm it in the National Assembly, because this will reduce the situation of tax ejaculation in Serbia, as it applies not only to domestics but also to legal and natural persons, who have certainly an interest in trying to export their profits or their income to their home countries or to some third countries in an attempt to reduce their tax obligations. Furthermore, it is certainly a benefit for Serbia to improve its international co-operation, when it comes to tax issues, as it thus increases its international reputation as a credible partner. It is a great motivation for multinational companies to reduce or, if possible, avoid their tax obligations, to move profits from a country where the tax is higher in another country where the tax is lower. They use different means for this, whether it's legal means, that is, to use the law available options, whether it's some means that, I say, are at the border of the law, because it's looking for holes in laws or in international legislation, which we're trying to prevent exactly this way, and some of course tend to break the laws completely just to reduce their tax obligations or to avoid them. How do you solve this problem? Completely, unfortunately, not at all, and in part, certainly by constantly working to improve the capacity of the Tax Administration to strengthen international co-operation and faster and more efficient data exchange among tax administrations across the planet. As I said, this problem cannot be solved permanently, but we can work on its reduction, hence increasing budget revenues each of the countries signatories of this Convention, which is, I would say, particularly significant because it opens up the possibility for us to further relax our expenditure side of the budget, i.e. to continue to increase wages and pensions further reducing the tax burden of work, which I would say, I hope the minister agrees with this, are our most important short-term fiscal targets on the bulky side of the budget. That is why we believe that the signing of this Convention is very important for the Republic of Serbia, and, of course, its confirmation in the National Assembly. That's where our business doesn't end, because those who try to avoid paying taxes or reducing it, so to speak, coloquially, never sleep, which will say that international co-operation must continue and must continue to work on improving all possible documents, whether it is international documents, such as this Convention, whether it is domestic tax legislation. Fighting against tax evasion is something that can be called an eternal struggle or a kind of "circulus Vitiosus", or a vicious circle, because whenever you think you've found a solution to one problem, there's a new problem that you have to fight again. The second law on the agenda today is the Law on the regulation of public debt on the basis of unpaid foreign exchange savings, which was brought up with the idea of saving savings by allowing citizens of former SFRY republics to be compensated, i.e. to raise their old foreign savings that they had in the branches of Serbian banks in their then republics, and today the state, in the same way, that is, under the same conditions as the citizens of the Republic of Serbia who had that savings in the branches of these banks in Serbia. So we're trying, or we've tried, when we've passed this law to even the rights of citizens of the former republics of the SFRY, with citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The need to pass this law came after a final ruling no longer possible to appeal to the European Court of Human Rights on 16 July 2014 in the case of Alisic and others against Slovenia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, Serbia and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. The direct effect of this verdict is so-called. the pilot-judgment, which will say that it applies, not only to these three persons who, in a specific case, have received a court ruling in their favour, since the pilot-judgment is also related to all others, about 1,850 concepts relating to around 8,000 persons who have automatically received these representations, i.e., all these cases have been resolved in their favour. This has created a commitment for us to solve this problem. In addition, in the sentence of the European Court of Human Rights ruling, it is said that this is a systemic problem and it is up to the states, namely Serbia and Serbia, to make certain legal solutions to which this problem will be dealt with fairly, which we, of course, have done within the deadline provided. Why do we have amendments and additions to this law today? Because it has come to the conclusion that due to certain circumstances, I would say several subjective circumstances, which are not on our side, the inability to carry out these commitments within the intended time limit, for the reason that there has been a delay in obtaining the documentation, need to exercise the right to recover the old foreign savings. What exactly is this about? In some countries there was a delay in obtaining documentation which, of course, occurred as a mistake in foreign countries, and this problem occurred particularly in the Republic of Croatia. In some other countries, the documentation that has been delivered, which has been collected by citizens, has not been valid for us. The problem is particularly linked to the Federation of BiH. For this reason, given that the Public Debt Administration has certain deadlines when it is required to deliver solutions, and that the documentation is still in the completion phase, it was practically not possible to perform this task before the Public Debt Administration, it was not possible in time to start to pay off the old foreign exchange savings, and we were forced to prescribe these amendments and the additions of the Law to move deadlines, of course, as soon as possible, for the reason that we would ensure the fairness of this legal solution, for the reason that we gave the savings the opportunity to obtain complete and valid documentation in time in the new prescribed legal period, but also to prevent possible abuses which, the practice has shown, appeared in some cases. For this reason we are discussing today, and in a few days, I believe, we will adopt amendments and additions to this law and in this way, I believe, justly damage the citizens of the former SFRY republics. It remains only in the end to confirm once again that the SDPS parliamentary group will vote in the voting day for the laws that are on the agenda of the session today, but also those laws that we will discuss tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-15-1.u57973	Thank you, Mr. Bauer. The word is Alexander Stevanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-15-1.u57974	Thank you, Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, at this point, we have a proposal for two laws that are quite technical in nature and do not have a feature of what would be controversial. A law that changes nature and deadlines in which old foreign savings are paid is a question that we inherited from the 1990s, and the decisions of the international body, the only pan-European body we have in Europe, has found that the Republic of Serbia has certain obligations on this matter and, accordingly, there is no possibility of discussing it and that, if we are a country that respects our international obligations, we are doing anything but acting according to the court's decision. This is how all sovereign states that are serious, and in Serbia was no different. What is the reason for the law being passed, as far as I could conclude, by following that matter, from the time it was brought to court and when the ruling was made, is that other countries were not prepared to adopt appropriate sublaws in time and to issue appropriate certificates quickly enough. This is the case in many of the countries of the former Yugoslavia, and the situation is particularly complicated because the banking sector is at a time when old foreign savings and the banking sector that exists today are not like anything. On the other hand, Serbia's delay is not the result of our mistreatment in Serbia, but because people who need to get what was taken away from them in 1990 were in one deeply unfair way unable to bring all the certificates and prove that they really are those people who are asking from the Republic of Serbia. On that side, it's okay to pass this law. It is also okay that the delay will be compensated in a certain way by a shorter payment period, through a smaller number of wars, and it is on our part, as I say, a rather fair gesture of Serbia. What is my question for the finance minister, who is very often turned out not to be such a wrong question is whether with 100% or very high certainty we can claim that within the time limit provided for by this law we will really come into a situation that the largest, or almost all saves all the necessary documents? Finally, I would point out once again that it is very important that we adopt the practice that Serbia knows what its debts are. Even though it's been a long time, it's also in my memory today that we've reached an agreement with the London Club to get a write-off request from commercial creditors, that we didn't have a slight relationship with what our debt was. That went unnoticed at the time, but today may be a good thing that we're trying not to accept debts that aren't ours. That's, say, one civilization progress. Essentially, this law has nothing to object to, with, of course, this little question of mine – is it six months enough or should we have left ourselves a little more of a commo, again I say, not for the sake of our organs, but for the savings that collect documents in some of the countries that do not have very friendly administrations and are not quite known for their speed in issuing them? As for the second law, on the Convention on Mutual Administrative Assistance in Tax Matters, it is the Convention signed by more than 120 states and territories so far, and this is a way to avoid the tax evac that is happening in Serbia, so as to avoid Serbia being a place where it is good to carry out tax evacuations by legal and physical persons from other countries. From that point of view, it's a good thing we're getting into that program. Of course, there is no need to observe the miraculous Declaration, for the simple reason that there is still a significant number of territories and countries that will not sign it, many of which have rather developed relations with Serbia, so that on this side the Convention will provide us with the possibility of a good portion of the ejaculation that is emerging in Serbia. On the other hand, there are, I say, certain countries and territories where it won't be possible, because they don't think of being in such a convention. Also, it is always important to point out what we are missing, which is that Serbia should not be the place others use and on the other side of the country that are the biggest source of tax evasion, in some ways, will not view Serbia as a place where money can be hidden, that is, laundering money, or changing tax payments through legal procedures. On the other hand, the co-operation of the tax authorities of the Republic of Serbia and the tax authorities of those countries is a good thing. Finally and the last thing that should always be considered and what is the point of every tax avoidance agreement is to think about the causes of tax ejaculation. So there is no better cure for legal persons in Serbia not to go astray than to reduce the participation of state spending in a social gross product each year and simply to leave more space for private investment, the development of acceptable investments and thus to make the best possible incentives for paying taxes, because when someone, for example, tries to avoid paying contributions and other types of workloads. If your accusations are lower, it'll be a shame to do that. If these imposings are great, it is easy to reach an agreement that neither the most organised tax administration with all the e-administration can handle with all the controls. So it's important to sign these agreements, but above all, it's important to reduce the tax burden and not give incentives to our businesses to avoid paying taxes for the simple reason that just avoiding money and bringing money to certain countries that have come well and treated as tax advances also has certain costs. So the point is to set up a tax system that our businesses and citizens will view as deeply just and above all, and what actions that are aimed at committing tax evasion, i.e. creative tax avoidance, which comes to the same, simply, that there will be no excessive sense of physical and legal persons dealing with such actions in Serbia. As far as the agreement itself is concerned, of course, the agreement is welcome and it is a good thing for the Republic of Serbia, I underline it once again. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-15-1.u57975	Thank you, Mr. Stevanovic. The word has the finance minister Sinisha Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-15-1.u57976	Thank you very much. Dear People's MPs, just to clarify one thing. Therefore, an extension of the deadline is due to the inability of savings to obtain appropriate documents and certificates, primarily from Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. And we think a six-month deadline is enough. So my wish was for this deadline to be relatively short, but also relatively long, enough for this process to end, the process that has been going on for the fifth year in a row. What is important for both the citizens of Serbia and for you to know, therefore, in the Republic of Croatia only 20 December of last year is a defined institution that confirms those certificates to the savings held in the Republic of Croatia. On the other hand, as far as Bosnia and Herzegovina is concerned, they had an even bigger complication because these certificates of old foreign currency savings were used to buy apartments and participate in privatisation and they needed much, much more time to determine how much de facto was left to these people in order for us to pay the part. For your information, just to be precise with the figures, therefore, a total of 9.324, of which from Bosnia and Herzegovina is convincing not more than 56.017, people residing in the Republic of Serbia 2,003, in Croatia 838, Northern Macedonia 196, Germany 183, Montenegro 153, Austria 85, Slovenia 51 persons, Switzerland 43, USA 32 and Canada 30 persons. So, a total of once again 9,324 applications, where the party has more, therefore, one of these savings also has an old foreign exchange savings in several banks, but on the other hand, if we vote this extension, I am sure that within six months this process will end and eventually remains in the Republic of Serbia to honour this debt. If you take into account the number of applications, as well as the amount in those reports, you come up with a figure of around 130m euros, which the Republic of Serbia will have to pay on behalf of old foreign exchange savings to creditors, or savings from former Yugoslav republics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-15-1.u57977	Thank you, Minister. The word is Anna Karadzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-15-1.u57978	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have two laws before us: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Debt Regulation on the basis of unpaid foreign exchange savings of citizens and a Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Convention on Mutual Administrative Assistance in Tax Issues. As for the first law, it should be pointed out that here the only change, as you have said, is the start date of payment by six months, that is to move six months of collection of documents by citizens, and that citizens will not be damaged in any way, when we talk about this, but that the ministry has had a positive attitude towards citizens when we talk about this deadline and that no matter what payment will be moved in six months while the documentation is being collected, the end of the payment itself will not be moved, but there will be a smaller number of wars that will be greater, and that citizens will not suffer in that case in any way. The reason for this amendment and supplementation is, as you said, of around 9,300 applications submitted, around 7,800 requests do not have complete documentation. It is 80%, and it was really necessary to extend the deadline for citizens to be able to participate, or to supplement their documentation, in order to avoid further errors. As for the second point, the Convention on Mutual Administrative Assistance, when we talk about Tax Issues, this is a very important Convention that we signed in Paris last year and which we need to confirm today, that is, in the voting day. The PS-NSS-USS Group certainly agrees with this, because we believe that this proposal is very good, i.e. that it is very good to be part of over 100 countries that this Convention covers when we talk about curbing corruption, when we talk about all the problems that come about tax evasion, that is, to facilitate the detection of entities that want to avoid tax in such a way as to transfer it to countries with lower tax jurisdiction or where it does not exist at all, so that we would indeed reduce and reduce corruption in this way and allow a better standard of Serbia's citizens. As I said before, this Convention covers over 100 countries that are connected, which are working on the exchange of information. Just because we signed this convention, we show that we have a reputation as a single legal secure state. It is also important to stress that besides this, it has been said that the General Secretariat of the Council of Europe has so-called. To express a black list of countries that do not want to co-operate in this area, and it is important that because of the country's reputation and any further steps of EU accession, we certainly do not find it. What is also important is that this Convention will not in any way, or taxpayers, have any damage, but to protect their privacy rights. The fact is that Serbia cannot meet at this time all the points that the other countries of the Convention can meet, but that is why there is a particular one, as pointed out in the Convention, a reserve, where there are countries of those 100 countries, there are still countries that do not have certain personnel or have no specific number of people required. It's been said, as far as I can tell, that, for example, We can't participate in some international action where we're going to send our personnel, specifically. But that is no problem, because simply, we are not obliged to meet all their conditions, and by being part of it we will certainly contribute much to Serbia's development through the different exchanges of information that we will have with these countries, because as we have heard today, there are all the most developed countries of the world and privileges and the pleasure is to be part of it. Once again, I would like to point out that our parliamentary group will support these two amendments and amendments to the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-15-1.u57979	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's Ambassador, Plasimir Stević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-15-1.u57980	Dear Vice President, distinguished ladies and fellow MPs, respected ministers with associates, we are discussing two laws in the area of finance as part of this search. The first is the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the regulation of the public debt of the Republic of Serbia on the basis of unpaid foreign exchange savings laid down by banks based on the territory of the Republic of Serbia and their branches in the territories of the former republics of the SFRY. We have known for a long time the fact that many old savings have been left without paying off the old foreign currency savings in banks whose seats were located in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, or in the branches of our banks located in the territories of the former republics of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. Today, we are talking about the establishment of a new obligation by the Republic of Serbia that will be required to make possible, on the basis of the European Court of Justice's ruling, the payment of old foreign exchange savings that the savings then made in the branches of Serbian banks in other former republics. In particular, when it comes to Serbia's debt, it is the "Invest Bank" branch in Sarajevo. Otherwise, Serbia's legal position was to apply the principle of territoriality, which stems from the Anex C Sucession Agreement. A similar case had other savings with the "Ljubljanska Banka". That's why the group of old foreign currency depositors Alisic and Sadzak "Ljubljanska Banka" and Sahadinovic "Invest Bank" addressed the European Court of Human Rights, whose legal position is that followers are obliged to pay off old foreign currency savings to these clients of the parent bank, because the branches they were in other republics had no legal entity. Otherwise, this is the first pilot of the verdict, and before this court there are more than 1,650 similar cases, indicating the systemic problem of outstanding old foreign exchange savings. This law has just regulated the obligations of the Republic of Serbia, taken over by the state, as the "Invest Bank" since 2002, until today, is in bankruptcy proceedings. So this payment goes to the public debt burden of the Serbian state. The fact is that the Ministry of Finance, i.e. the Public Debt Administration, is facing a number of problems in the process of verification of old foreign exchange savings, in particular in the process of obtaining the necessary and necessary evidence prescribed by law in order to determine the real situation. That is why the law proposes to move the deadlines so that old foreign currency savings can obtain documentation from competent institutions in former republics whose branches have been spared and acquired the right to pay off old foreign currency savings. The deadline was until June 23rd this year, and now by law it moves in another six months. The reason is also that some former republics began to issue certificates late, e.g. The Republic of Croatia was not valid until December 2018 in Bosnia and Herzegovina, etc. Therefore, the extension of this deadline goes in favour of the savings that need to exercise their right, and the state of Serbia has taken over the guarantee that on behalf of the bank, which is in bankruptcy, it will make it an amendment to the Public Debt Act. When it comes to the Law on Confirmation of the Convention on Mutual Administrative Assistance in Tax Matters, the Convention on Mutual Administrative Assistance in Tax Matters was signed in Paris in 2019. The financial crisis that hit the world in 2008 led to the realization that the existing elements of co-operation in tax issues between states were not adequate. The increasing incidence of tax avoidance, legal gaps and non-compliance with tax rules, the shift of profits to low-tax countries has led to the need to step up international co-operation. The Convention on Mutual Administrative Assistance in Tax Issues has 128 signatories, both state and international organisations, including the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, which has worked together with the Council of Europe to create a legal basis for improving co-operation on tax matters. The Convention provides for the provision of assistance between signatories in the form of an exchange of information through the collection of foreign tax claims, as well as assistance in the delivery of documentation. Also, the Convention applies to income tax, profit tax, net assets tax and capital gains tax. The tax introduced at the level of political units or units of local self-government, value added tax, sales tax, property tax, inheritance and gifts, real estate income tax is also covered. For this reason, the Convention guarantees the protection of the basic rights of taxpayers. To that end, the confidentiality of the information, which is exchanged, is a very important condition for the exchange of information, as their limited use. For reasons of improving the transparency of the tax system in the Republic of Serbia, as well as preserving the reputation that the Republic of Serbia has and wants to maintain at international level, the Republic of Serbia has committed itself to signing and confirming the Convention by the end of 2019. Otherwise, the EU Council has warned of the possibility for the Republic of Serbia to be included in the list of non-cooperative jurisdictions in tax matters. The EU delegation to the Republic of Serbia later explained that the Convention on the Republic of Serbia should enter into force by the end of 2019. In accordance with Article 28 paragraph 3. The Convention, for a Member State of the Council of Europe, such as the Republic of Serbia, or the OECD Member State, which subsequently expressed its consent to be bound by it, shall enter into force on the first day of the month to come. During the period of three months from the date of deposit of the instruments, confirmation, acceptance or approval, the whole procedure for signing, confirming and depositing the instruments is planned to end by the end of August 2019 at the latest, in order to bring the Convention into force on 1 December 2019. The Republic of Serbia is unable to take the obligations prescribed by the Convention immediately. In order to meet certain obligations under the Convention, it is necessary to meet complex technical conditions, as well as to ensure a satisfactory range of human resources which the Republic of Serbia currently does not have. In a part that is currently unable to meet its obligations, the Republic of Serbia has used the right given in the Convention itself to make reserves, as well as to deliver certain notifications and declarations. The notification reserves and the declaration will be delivered to the OECD when the instruments of confirmation are deposited. According to regulations, reserves, notices and declarations, together with the Convention, they are subject to confirmation in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Finally, the SPS parliamentary group in the voting day will support the proposed laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-15-1.u57981	The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-15-1.u57982	Ladies and gentlemen, we have two draft laws. One refers to the settlement of the debts of the Republic of Serbia towards foreign exchange savings, which someone said is a purely formal technical issue because of the inability to obtain adequate documentation from interested persons to whom the Republic of Serbia should compensate for the old foreign exchange savings, cannot obtain valid documentation and Serbia, according to all international conventions, is pro-longing that period of return, i.e. giving the possibility of an additional six months for certain persons to be able to obtain appropriate documentation. Why does this matter? It is important for the simple reason that, at the time of the concession and the negotiations on the succession, Serbia insisted on these issues to be subject to a succession, to be C or G chapter, where Serbia, in principle, or all of the former republics of Yugoslavia, on the principle of territoriality, when finally the accounts are taken as much as anyone has obligations, will pay it out of old foreign savings. Among other things, there is BiH, then Macedonia, the present little norther, Croatia, Slovenia etc. The international court was of a different opinion. He said with a convincing majority that it was a private property, that it was the personal property of an individual and that it could not be the subject of a succession or of an agreement after a succession, but that it must be settled because it was a matter relating to, that the public knows, "Invest Bank", which had its branches, in this case, a subsidiary in Tuzla, so the person that the BiH citizen, while also Germany, sued the "Invest Bank" and sought his old foreign savings. It is the pilot of the verdict that was made for this person when it comes to "Invest Bank" and when it comes to Alisic's person, she is from Sarajevo, she sued "Ljubljanska Banka", and these are two pilots of the verdicts. Based on these pilots, the verdicts need to be regulated by Serbia about 8,000 demands, i.e. cases, 1,600 cases, 8,000 people that Serbia should settle on the basis of some rough assessment. However, the number will finally be known when proper documentation is obtained. Why is the paperwork here controversial? Because, specifically, in this case, when it comes to savings from Tuzla, BiH is not in a situation or is unable or for some other reasons unable to provide adequate documentation, it cannot obtain, he and other persons, a particular documentation. What's the point here? The bottom line is that Serbia, respecting the International Court of Justice's decision, must compensate for the old foreign currency savings created by the collapse of the former SFRY, which is completely natural, the withdrawal of banks based in Serbia. The "Invest Bank" was, in 2002, liquidated only for comments. You don't need a quiz question to guess who liquidated her. It was liquidated by Mladjan Dinkic, as well as "Beobanka", as "Yugobanka", as all banks, explaining that they are not liquid banks, that these banks cannot carry aces on the market with competition, and in fact providing maximum conditions for foreign banks that have come to these premises. In doing so, he had not thought for a moment that the possible entry of one of these banks could be among other things and the taking of certain obligations. No, in the case of Investbank, but in the case of many banks. There formed one bankruptcy mass of all these banks that were liquidated, in the end, a bankruptcy mass estimated over a billion and a half euros that Mladjan Dinkic held. Where's the money? No one's determined that until today. When you look at Beobanke's assets, it is impressive, Mladjan Dinkic managed the money, he made major decisions, made moves, when it comes to Beobanka, arguing that Beobanka was used for money laundering in Cyprus, arguing that Borka Vukic privatised it along with Slobodan Milosevic, etc. Mostly here it is very important to know history, to know the background of this debt that needs to be compensated by the Republic of Serbia. But what we Serbian radicals insist on, and we use this opportunity to remind and point out, is that here and thus putting private property first, the personal property that is uncut, and here on the basis of the pilot of the verdict, decisions are made in general for all persons who are in the same or similar way under the allegations damaged as these two persons who are in the process against "Investbanka" and "Ljubljanska Banka". What has been translated into our terms lately? We only remember how much we persuaded you about the compensation, that is, an adequate solution to the problem of foreign savings that saves in Swiss francs. That's when we told you that they had court decisions, that it was the pilot's judgment, that the pilot's judgment should be acted upon, that the courts at certain levels found for individuals that these green interest were not based on the law and in the Constitution of this country. However, instead of acting on some of the positive rules imposed by the International Community, in this case Europe, you are better off, when I say you, the most responsible, have put pressure on the higher level of the judiciary to question this first-degree verdict. Just a man who can't believe it. How did you realize that in this case you respected the International Court of Justice, and in the case of our citizens, when it comes to foreign exchange savings, or those who were credited in Swiss francs, there is no pilot of the verdict. Secondly, gentlemen, when it comes to the incomparability of personal property, remember that in certain courts, although the truth is now domestic, and it is not excluded that it will also be at the International Court of Justice, individual beneficiaries, pensioners, complained. How are you going to get here? It must be based on the pilot's decision, the verdict to act in the same way as in this case, specifically in this proposal, based on a foreign citizen, it must also be done to our citizens. Any verdict that is positively resolved in favour of the applicant when it comes to the use of pensions, and based on what was earlier, the state would have to respect the pensioners' pockets, against the constitutional, against the law. You are now introducing a rule, the Assembly is making a decision to extend this deadline, but you will have to justify today, how and in what way should be paid on the basis of, I say the pilot of some verdict, how to pay off all other pensioners, all who are damaged. Whether and how damaged this court will determine, if it does not adequately and to the satisfaction of those who have brought the suit, it will not be determined by domestic courts, along with the Constitutional Court, which is a more folklore organisation, then international courts. So the international courts will just so the public knows, with the judgments of international courts not to play, because in the event of failure to fulfil obligations, they prey on the property of a state that has an obligation to pay for damages. So what we're listening to yesterday and the day before yesterday at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that we have enormous property, that we haven't agreed with the former republics yet, is likely to be one part of the compensation for those who are at risk of personal property. I'm just saying, I'm warning. As far as this Convention is concerned, there is an anecdote related to the Thessaloniki Volunteers. Resting, gathering power from Serb soldiers on the coasts of Thessaloniki at one point, someone cried out - a man in the sea. In the sea suddenly a Serb soldier with a vest, with full equipment, pulls out that drowned man, all applauding his brave act. They ask him - how did you do it, he says - I don't know who pushed me. Now, there's no telling who pushed Serbia into signing this convention. First, the possibility of co-operation in the area of avoidance and tax regulation is provided for mutually signed international contracts. There are even contracts that are unilateral, bilateral or multilateral. And they're moderate, they're based on who's being handled in cases like this and this Convention. This Convention according to all the analyses of people who are of the profession goes hand in hand to those of the EU countries who are rich. They are those who have an interest and have also how to benefit from tax control and taxpayers, especially residents when it comes to other countries. First of all, it's kind of strange, conditionally said, that you're putting one document, one adoption act, and you know for a fact that this act cannot be applied immediately. It can't be for a long time, because the promoter says – we're not technically, we're not professionally and staffed in order to meet the requirements of the Convention. It goes to an extraordinary session of the Serbian Parliament to tell the story of tax evasion that we prevent tax avoidance, that in this way we attract foreign investors, which is not in any way justified in all of what this Convention provides and ultimately, all international contracts aimed at managing a single tax control. Among other things, these are agreements for you, for example, at the Benelux level, where Belgium, the Netherlands and Luxembourg have common control over taxes. You have an example in the EU where no country accepts that another state is controlling it, that other country's controllers are coming to that country to exercise control. Even the exchange of data, it has reserved a discretionary right to delay sending certain data to the EU. Another reason for gentlemen to suggest this is because Serbia as a state with its supervisory authorities cannot exercise control within the EU by sending its controllers to carry out insight into the tax books and tax data of EU countries. This is clear when it comes to EU countries' declarations and we do not see why they are in such a hurry. It is most likely to be used for some propaganda purposes, to say the least -- and here we are, who are going through Europe, and we are going to contribute to the EU and how it controls tax payments. What is the subject of this Convention? The subject of this Convention is to control the payment of taxes on a variety of grounds, but bilateral contracts are above all these conventions. The multilateral agreements between the countries are above these conventions. The convention is, as the people would say, like the Divine Guide, neither helps nor escapes. There are some obligations, but they are not strictly defined when it comes to relations between individual EU countries. EU countries have their own agreements. The control and control of taxes and tax policies and documentation of another country, many EU countries, and among them the most developed countries, interprets as a violation of the country's sovereignty. It's an interpretation of EU countries. That's what Germany tells you, it's interpreting a country that was a member of the EU by yesterday, it's formally still, it's Great Britain, etc. It is also France, whose president you are waiting for today, to thank him for and for having this relationship with Kosovo and Metohija, which at any time stresses that there is no more EU accession and that Kosovo and Metohija is an independent state. France also interprets that it is a interference with the internal issue and a violation of sovereignty. What's Serbia got here? Serbia has agreements with certain countries here. It is true that this Convention has been signed by 120 countries, but, look, these 120 countries are clearly talking about those who are poorer, they will have, on condition, damage, those who are richer, they will benefit. When a bilateral agreement is signed with EU countries or other countries, then everything about paying resident tax is defined, or when it comes to legal persons who are residents here. Here's an example of Fiat Kragujevac. Look at the problem. The contract with the Fiat that was made and we have an agreement with Italy is specific by freeing Fiat from many taxes, so that Fiat, apart from subsidies, has additionally received 300,000 euros for the whole period. It's all in the contract. I don't believe there's that man, especially from this new government system, who, on his own, would take anything out of the contract. When it comes to paying the taxes of individual persons, i.e. persons, it is also defined by mutually signed contracts between the two countries. Whether a resident will pay in the country from which he or she is or will pay in the country where he starts or where he has a certain part of his job, that depends on which country in this case of bilateral relations to be, as it would say, stronger with arguments. It's not like anyone believes that Germany will let its citizens, who, or her businesses, are doing business here, pay a whole job or a bigger tax or a bigger part of that tax. It's out of your mind. What's wrong with us Serbian radicals? It's up to us Serbian radicals to get to know the public, that the public knows what this is all about. This is, in fact, a simple folkly speaking, a haze sale. You're selling fog. You are rushing, running, blind, obediently going to the EU, not taking care of what obligations arise from this. The EU will tolerate an unprofessional technical failure, but will not tolerate you indefinitely. You will be declared a black hole when it comes to tax control, not you, but Serbia. Then you'll see how all this happens when it comes to foreign investments, everyone will run because certain sanctions are provided. Now you think we Serbian radicals are politicizing this, we're talking about dirty technology, we're talking about you guys. The dirty electricity. You'll see, it'll all be your turn. You know when? When you don't listen, when you don't meet the EU's orders, when you don't listen to Americans, and as things stand, obviously the president of the state isn't in the mood to recognise Kosovo, but you'll see how this all falls into the water, how you suddenly touch the bottom, but you know what, the song says - and the fall is the flight, the more you fly, the more you'll fall, that's the unwritten rule. Therefore, our proposal is to withdraw this Convention and apply the same arches when it comes to compensation for both our pensioners and our savings in Swiss francs.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-15-1.u57983	Thank you. You've wasted your time. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-15-1.u57984	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, therefore, it is not the idea of this Convention that we control how other countries work, but to exchange data with them, to be part of developed countries that work together to prevent tax evasion, money laundering and thus contribute to the fight against terrorism. I will remind you that together with you in the last 18 months we have passed and passed 12 laws and over 70 sublegal acts, just to create a system that is aimed at combating terrorism and working to prevent money laundering. That's exactly why we were praised a few weeks ago and removed from that gray list of FATF organizations. I think it's very important, this very convention gives us the opportunity and opportunity to work with 128 countries, or 127 plus Serbia, on exchanges of information, to see where the problems are so that we can be part of this group that deals, just as I said, by preventing money laundering and fighting terrorism. So, on this point, this convention and its adoption today, we will begin to apply it from 1 December 2019, and on the basis of that, if you vote it in the next few days, we will do all the preparatory actions that are necessary in order to both administratively and in any other way be willing to exchange that information and be part of that big system. I'm going to go back to unpaid foreign exchange savings for a while, because I want you all to understand that two things are the most important thing about amending the law. So, on the one hand, we meet these people, who didn't have the opportunity, not because of us, but I already told you, because of institutions both in BiH and primarily in Croatia, to come to the paper, to come up with documents, to come up with evidence of how much they are owed on the basis of unpaid foreign savings. On the other hand, the payment deadline the state took to be five years, to be in the 10-year half-year war, we're cutting by a year. So in the previous version of the law that deadline was February 2024, we are now reducing it to August 2023. For a year we reduce this period, we try to make our commitment to respect these people for the shortest time period, and on the other hand we give them the opportunity to prepare, obtain, obtain, obtain, get all the documentation they need to complete this process successfully. I'll remind you one more time, there was a theme and the banks were mentioned. So, a total of 13,019 parties, of which is the 7,701 party Invest Bank a.d. Belgrade is in bankruptcy, 2.291 Jugobanka a.d. Belgrade is in bankruptcy, 706 parties are IK Banka a.d. Belgrade is in bankruptcy, 706 parties are JIK banka a.d. Belgrade is in bankruptcy, 501 parties are Beobanka a.d. Belgrade is in bankruptcy, 462 parties are the Bank's bankruptcy, AIK bank is 339 parties and the final bankruptcy is 311 parties. So, a total of 13,019 parties, and once again, it is 9,324 requests, the largest number from BiH 5,617, Serbia 2,003, 838 requests from Croatia, Northern Macedonia 196, Germany 183, Montenegro 153, Austria 85 requests, Slovenia 51, Switzerland 43, USA 32 and Canada 30, therefore, at the residence of those people who submitted the request. We give them a chance, especially for these BiH people, and for Croatia to obtain all necessary documentation in an additional six months to fulfil its commitment to this matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-15-1.u57985	Thank you. Replica, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-15-1.u57986	First of all, Minister, you're right, the exchange of data means the automatic exchange of that information, and there's nothing here that's controversial. It should be technologically, technically and professionally equipped to come to that stage. It's a long way from that, and you're admitting yourself here in the proposal. Secondly, you now have in the draft law that the government proposes to the Assembly, which is the settlement of credit obligations to Slovakia, which was created from the previous period, and the matter is a succession, a succession agreement signed in Vienna, which belongs to the Annex G, as well as this. This debt is left to the Agency of Virgin Islands, which is why we speak Serbian radicals – could it not have been discussed after the founding of these foreign banks that one of the conditions is at least part of the debt to take over? They took over not small funds, one way or the other. Don't kid yourself. As far as these obligations are concerned, Mr. Mali, Emina Alisic of Sarajevo has sued "Ljubljanska Banka", and Sahib Shehadinovic of Tuzla, a German and BiH citizen, has sued "Invest Banka" and on the basis of these pilot convictions a commitment has been made, there is no Serbia will-not, the International Court of Justice has reached a verdict, a pilot of the verdict, it is an obligation. Our only question was whether in the event of a pilot's conviction at domestic retirement courts, for the individual who complained about this, everything that happened about the withdrawal, or the pension cuts. Is that how the Government of the Republic of Serbia will act?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-15-1.u57987	Thank you. The word is Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-15-1.u57988	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there is no need for any of my fellow citizens of the Republic of Serbia, there is really no need, no need for citizens to be afraid of those MPs who mention unilateral agreements, means a contract with themselves. That's what it's said here. I wrote carefully what my esteemed colleagues were saying about this discussion. On the one hand, it is a matter of technical laws, but I don't think they are so insignificant and that without a serious discussion here in the National Assembly they should be adopted. Also, there is no need to invite and call on citizens to go into judicial proceedings that would be extremely uncertain and very expensive. Here, there was now controversy about pensions, laws passed by the National Assembly, and now the question is, how are we going to do it if we get to those so-called so-called. The pilot of the verdicts, it is true that the pensioners made the most of the crisis and it is indisputable, we are grateful to them, the largest number of these pensioners welcomed the efforts of the government of the Republic of Serbia and then Prime Minister Alexander Vukic to draw the state out of the crisis and speak of it and the support that this same Aleksandar Vukic had later in the 2016 elections and in the elections for the President of the Republic of 2019, when he confidently won at least one part of the former regime, when he won the former regime, in fact, which led to the challenge of this crisis. Serbia is not the first and only to resort to these unpopular measures. As far as I'm aware, in 2010, there is still a reduction in pensions in Greece, for example. I have not heard that some verdict on Greece's pension cuts made that the Greek state has to pay for it or Spain, is the same for Spain. Do not invite citizens to initiate expensive and uncertain disputes before international courts, especially because the prospect of such a dispute is almost zero. If it is for the sake of politics, then say, "I am a politician, I will say something I am not sure of, so decide what you will do." I don't know after such inspiring speeches when it comes to some of my colleagues, they say these agreements are a haze sale. Now, I don't know if hundreds of fog factories are dozens or hundreds of new workers, and that's fog, hundreds of miles of highways, and that's fog, bigger pensions and public sector wages, and that's fog. It's all fog. A higher average salary in the Republic of Serbia, and that's fog. It's all fog. It's just, you're gonna have to convince some in a little less than a year. You have so much time to convince that what citizens see with their eyes isn't true, it's not true, it doesn't exist, it's some mirage. Well, Serbia is no longer a desert to be a mirage in, it was until 2012, when they destroyed everything they arrived. Serbia is now becoming both a modern and economically more advanced country. If someone wants to be found in the political system and political life of the Republic of Serbia, they should be found in these frameworks, not talking fiction and scaring citizens. We're done with those, I hope. That's who we're done with. Also, why an agreement in which this government did not participate, not many before, which was signed in 2008 or 2009 at the time of the outbreak of the global economic crisis, and signed by the then-Government of Mirko Cvetkovic with the "Fiita", someone claims to implement the practice from the current government. First, that's not true, it has nothing to do with the truth. Tax exemptions and taxes were released at the time, and now we have our laws that we apply and it has nothing to do with whether the legal person, i.e. the origin of the capital and the owner from abroad or from here, if the company is registered with domestic regulations, has to pay taxes, so let it come from wherever it wants, from Germany, from France, from Italy, from the Netherlands, from Belgium, from China, from Russia, has to pay taxes. I don't know why such resistance to this law concerning a certain exchange of information regarding the tax procedure and the tax administration. Here, we were on a very unpopular list, in my opinion, undeserved, because Serbia was never soft to launder money and spill capital, we were and now we're not taking the risk of getting back on that list, someone's going to say – but, well, that means these rich people are blackmailing you, ratting you out, doing whatever they want, so they can get their own rules out with which we have nothing to do with it. That's what we hear from our colleagues who, let's say, stand up for as tight a relationship as possible with, say, China. And they won't say that while we were on that blacklist, that payment traffic between the Republic of Serbia and the NR China was impossible, not our fault. China has simply implemented international regulations. Now let's not accept this agreement and question co-operation with countries that are truly our sincere friends. Here, so there was no direct payment between NR China and Serbia, and now someone else says I'm not telling the truth, let them prove it. I'm telling the truth in this case, because I'm tracking what's going on with the payments that the Republic of Serbia has. It's not enough just to make an affair, but a little something to read, try to learn, maybe even figure it out. I may not know anything, but, well, I know that this situation was really very unfavourable for the Republic of Serbia. We can't touch why these agreements we have in the field of tax control, exchange of information, etc. were needed. I wish we had had the opportunity to adopt these agreements long before and long before 2008, 2009 or 2010, when the need for such agreements on the international stage appeared. I don't think we should have gone into the kind of privatisation we've had since 2003-2004 without such international agreements. Imagine the perks gathered around Miskovic and "Delta", when they start the privatisation process, so the initial price is one-fifth of the book value of the privatisation entity, and the bookkeeping price is at least 10 times lower than the market value of the privatisation entity. And if someone takes the digitron and only a little bill, the starting price is only 10% of the market price of the subject matter of privatisation. This means that Serbian tycoons were created by writing laws that the former regime adopted here, why they bought social property, then in other countries that have far lower tax rates and far less control over money flows, moved the headquarters of these companies, sold capital at market values, made huge money, and the Republic of Serbia that had to take care of the workers who were jobless was deprived of tax revenues from the sale of that property. What a hoax we're talking about is what the big ones want to make us. If we had one of these agreements, it wouldn't be possible. And this is the truth. That's what happened later. The famous privatisation, they say, of direct foreign investment, is selling "Maxia". Where was she? In Serbia? Is taxes paid in Serbia? Did the money end up in Serbia? No, he ended up, as far as I know, in the Virgin Islands. Mr. Minister, you should initiate along with a colleague from the Ministry of Economy to make a law on companies, to change and supplement offices, that it is not possible to move economic operators in the Republic of Serbia to countries that are not signatories and do not apply this agreement. Only in this way can we avoid further abuses like we had until 2012, 2013, 2014. They say off the record, and I believe that the number is close to the truth, that 50 billion dollars was exported in one way or another in the privatisation process. And not only in the privatisation process, of course, and in the process of various trade in goods, services, etc. Remember only the 2010 or 2011 foreign exchange laws, when the duties of the Foreign Affairs Inspectorate have been completely suspended to monitor whether these goods or services are actually imported into the Republic of Serbia for paid goods or services abroad. Or that even when the goods were exported, the foreign exchange inspectorate was unable to insist on the exporter to transfer the money to the Republic of Serbia. Thus, before that law, only with this law did they wash themselves in a certain way as criminally responsible for what the Republic of Serbia did. When it comes to the old foreign savings and this agreement, it is private property, according to one of my colleagues, only forgets that now the banks operating in the territory of the Republic of Serbia are mostly private property. So they're both private property, uncut. It doesn't matter if it's someone who's concluded a bond by international courts, specifically with the Swiss franc contract, whether he's the only private person, but also the origin of the money that's being awarded to him, whether he belongs to some private investors, and most often to the pension funds of some other countries. So we applied one such one-sided interpretation, most likely that we would have to pay for the damage either one or the other, but in absolute terms, and that's again from the budget of the Republic of Serbia. So I ask my colleagues not to frighten the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. What was interesting to me was, of course, the Ministers, if possible, as soon as possible, while we were dealing with banks in bankruptcy within the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds and banks that were in liquidation and bankruptcy, there was a lot of abuse and failures made in earlier years, before 2012. Now I'm interested, and here you mentioned some citizens who were in the territory of the United States, were they depositors in our banks located in the territory of the United States or were the depositors here in Serbia, so that's where they only started to live? Why am I asking that question? Because for our banks that are in bankruptcy in the United States, a special procedure is being conducted, independent of our state authorities. In particular, there is an education of bankruptcy and there is particularly a collection of claims. One of my experiences was that one of our citizens, most likely the money he received during international sanctions, had invested in one of our banks located on U.S. territory, meaning money that wasn't his. When these banks went into bankruptcy, he initiated a procedure to collect claims and to one bankruptcy authority, so in the U.S., where our capital is again, and in front of the domestic authorities, so from the bank's bank's bank that is here, or the mother of the bank, call whatever you want, which means that because of the imperfection of the legislation, a mangoof will double collect one of his claims, which is otherwise very suspicious and the word is, I think, worth about five million dollars. If he hasn't done it before. I'm interested in whether this law applies in this case, because we can't charge from the acquired mass of banks to pay the claims here in Serbia when someone on the same basis from about the same source, so our assets charge it in another country, and twice more. In my opinion, first of all, this gentleman should prove the origin of the money, that we know if it really is his, and if it really is his and can prove it, let it be decided whether it will be charged from a bankruptcy that is in the United States or from the acquired mass that is here in the Republic of Serbia, and on one basis cannot be charged twice. In any case, with these laws, Serbia shows that it is a serious state, that those obligations it has at its disposal, and as regards the agreement on the tax procedure and the tax administration and mutual assistance, Serbia only shows that it still has a serious administrative capacity to start an agreement like this first, and that in some foreseeable time it fully applies, which only speaks of the fact that Serbia today is much more respected, much more respected and much more appreciated than nine or ten years ago and that this is one of the reasons why it should support these laws in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-15-1.u57989	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Mr. Mircic, you want a replica of Mr. Arsic's exposure? Yeah. ) The word is Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-15-1.u57990	Just an explanation. I have to tell my colleague he didn't read the material to the end, if he'd read the video, he'd have explained it. Only the ministry has allowed unilateral agreements to mean that certain regions in the countries have the right, have the opportunity to rule out such a possibility, or to demonstrate a reserve. In Germany, for example, Bavaria as a region has the opportunity to express a reserve for the application of this Convention. In America, the U.S., individual states have the independence to express their reserves or sign the Convention, regardless of the position of the federal state. This is why these internal contracts are signed between the Federal State and individual states. As far as this attitude of yours is concerned, that some pensioners do not complain, that you stress that an uncertain fate or judicial suspension is the most direct threat. You're the government, I'm the opposition. You're threatening them to make an uncertain verdict. Who are you to threaten? The only thing you told the truth was that there was a gray list. A few months ago, we ask you, Serbian radicals -- when Serbia will be removed from that list, what is the condition for it to be removed? You on us trees and rocks. You know, when the wolf and the donkey fought over whether the grass was green or dead, the lion, the animal king, punished the wolf who claimed to be green. The donkey says, "You see for yourself, my king, that it is green." He says, "I did not punish you for the green grass, but because you argue with the donkey."
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-15-1.u57991	Thank you, Mr. Mircic. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Right on the line. Here you go, colleague Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-15-1.u57992	I don't want to talk about domestic animals, I think that all animals are in a certain way noble, some of them are for eviction and mockery, I don't want it to be a practice in the National Assembly. There is no unilateral agreement, there is a unilateral application of a regulation. So the Republic of Serbia is not an EU member, but can unilaterally apply all EU regulations and no one can forbid it. Let's get this straight first. So the unilateral agreement is the same as signing a contract with yourself. Let's get this straight right now. Furthermore, as far as our citizens are concerned, I'm not scaring them, I'm just saying that no one invites them into procedures that are uncertain, legally insecure, which can cost them enormously. So that's my word, and if they're gonna do it or not, that's their thing, but don't tickle them. One more thing, being an opposition doesn't mean that it doesn't have to mind what he's saying here, you know, because I guess the goal of all of us in this room right now is that I don't count on these in the former regimes, they don't even come into the O.R. and they're not in the interest of improving the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I guess it's in the interest of all of us, regardless of the political outcome in the elections, that we work in the interests of the citizens. That's how I feel about politics. If we're just going to deal with making the best of the election, even if they're not telling the truth, then in such a political struggle, I am really questioning the honesty of some of my colleagues who do not belong to the SNS parliamentary group and parliamentary groups who support the government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-15-1.u57993	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic. Right on the line. Here you go, colleague Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-15-1.u57994	It's in vain to explain more. I would only ask the Minister to explain whether this provision on this Convention stands, to enter into force at the end of 2019, and that Serbia will then become all obligations under this Convention, which is as soon as technically, technologically and humanely trained as possible, so that it can participate in this whole control process? What, Minister, otherwise, if Serbia does not do so within the time limit, does not enable it, does it entail any other measures that would eventually put foreigners, or foreign citizens, in the role of controlling and preparing? In any case, how much of this equipment and how much human training would it cost Serbia? It's just, I'm interested, Minister, because it's not worth wasting any more time, it's for nothing, we don't have any radicals time. The people are watching, so let them decide.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-15-1.u57995	Thank you, colleague Mircic. The word has a representative of the promoter, Sinisha Mali, minister of finance. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-15-1.u57996	Thank you very much. So don't worry too much. By the end of the year, we will go into the application of this Convention, as promised, as set out in the Bill of Law. All the activities are already under way, there's no reason for any of you to suspect that we're going to do something like that. We have been preparing for this for a longer period of time, and I think there are huge advantages for our country to go into data exchange with so many countries and to start to process, administration and laws, in the end, share and direct us to be part of a global system that is just directed against the fight, that is, against terrorism and to prevent money laundering. I think it's very important and in terms of deadlines, in the end, we'll see each other here and in November and December, and we'll defend the 2020 budget, so you'll see if we have or haven't applied it in time, but I'm sure and I'm telling you, I guarantee you we'll apply that within the time limit. What you said, Mr. Arsic, I think it's very important. You've just cited the fact from the field which is also the cause of the amendments to this law. So, the certificate of residence is a very important document required when applying for the payment of this foreign savings, precisely because they would know whether anyone lived and when, in Croatia, Bosnia, Slovenia, America or Canada, and to know whether he used his right in some of these countries in order to reduce abuse and ultimately we want to pay all these people what we are obliged to pay, but no more, especially in order to reduce these abuses. So far, it's good co-operation of our Deposit Insurance Agency with institutions in those individual countries. What is particularly important is that you understand that this process has been going on for several years. In December of last year, Croatians gave us banks that gave these certificates, only in December did they give those institutions that would give these certificates to citizens. In BiH, there was a special process, I wasn't an expert in this, but all these certificates went to this unique number, and then they were used for old foreign savings and for buying apartments, paying off apartments, participating in privatisation, buying a business space in privatisation, and then it happened at some point that their institution gave confirmations to everyone and said -- look, no one took advantage of their right, and we know that it did. And, then, when you're responsible for the budget of the Republic of Serbia and the citizens of Serbia, then we're going along with the relevant institutions in BiH to get additional information, to go through all of this and see, well, if there was someone, if we owed someone, he used it right in the meantime, and to avoid it happening twice. So we are trying to be very responsible, very careful, to get these people to meet on the one hand, but on the other hand, of course we are protecting the interests and budgets of the Republic of Serbia and the citizens of Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-15-1.u57997	Thank you, Minister. Since there are no more registered presidents, or authorised representatives of parliamentary groups, we are moving to the order of the MPs according to the application for a word in the common, principled and uniform search on the drafts of the law referred to in points 1 and 2 of the agenda. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Muamer Zukorlic. He's not there. The word has a folk emissary, Jasmine Karanac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-15-1.u57998	Thank you, Chairman. In its presentation, I will refer to the proposal for a law confirming the Convention on mutual administrative assistance in tax matters. The adoption of this law is significant from a number of levels, i.e. a number of reasons for its adoption. The first and basic reason is better tax collection, i.e. reduction of tax evasion. By signing the Convention and by adopting the law that we are discussing here today, conditions are created for Serbia and 128 signatories of states and jurisdictions to advance mutual co-operation, thus improving international aid from tax authorities, all with the aim of better tax collection, i.e. preventing money laundering and combating terrorism. What led to the need to step up international co-operation? It's a very large situation of tax indiscipline, i.e. avoiding tax payments. Namely, the legal gaps and the discrepancies of the tax rules led to the transfer of profits to low-taxed countries. In this country's domestic multinational companies, but also individuals, in an artificial way, make profits, avoid paying taxes, and the country in which the profit was achieved loses significant funds. This can be very dangerous, given that tax revenues are part of the total income of a single country. Non-taxation affects the reduction in the volume of state revenue, i.e. the reduction in the total amount of money available to the state during the financial year. Given that the money that the state collects, finance and meet the needs of citizens in the areas of the jurisdiction of the state, such as health, education, social protection and the like, it is not difficult to conclude that reducing the amount of tax collected and other income from the state means that the state must reduce consumption. When it is not able to reduce consumption and collecting taxes and other revenues is not enough to finance public expenditure, the state is forced to borrow. Due to the obligation to repay debts, the government's expenditures are increasing in the coming years, which, unless taxes and other revenues are growing, fall on the burden of future generations. All these are the consequences of tax avoidance, which will be much harder to achieve when the Convention on Mutual Administrative Assistance comes into force. By signing this convention, Serbia has shown co-operation and ambition to actively join international efforts to prevent illegal tax avoidance. Since the Republic of Serbia is unable to take over all obligations prescribed by the Convention immediately, it will be necessary to provide additional technical conditions, human resources, which will lead to further improvements in capacity in tax issues. There is also the possibility that through international co-operation we can gain additional experience in this area, which will have a positive feedback in the country itself, trained people, the possibility that our experts participate in the work of international expert bodies, alone cooperation in the field of our tax authorities and the tax authorities of other states signatories of this Convention and the acquisition of new experiences in practice. This also sends a message to the domestic economy, but also to the public in general that the state is willing to make every effort to improve tax discipline. Access to the Convention will lead to an improvement in the overall economic environment, further contributing to increasing the confidence of foreign investors, i.e. to increasing foreign investment. What is very important, the Convention guarantees the protection of the basic rights of taxpayers. With this, the Republic of Serbia shows its commitment to the policy of implementing and improving human rights and rights in general by helping taxpayers exercise their rights and ensuring adequate protection of these rights. As a member of the Council of Europe and a country that co-operates with the Organisation for European Co-operation and Development, as a candidate country for EU membership and as a country that continuously demonstrates its contribution to the continued improvement of international relations, it is logical for the Republic of Serbia to approach such a convention, thus showing that it is a significant factor in the construction of the international order. As a candidate for EU membership, Serbia shows this is committed to meeting its obligations in the association process. So we remain in strong partnership positions with the EU, which leaves us with space to demand the effectiveness and speed of solving individual processes and issues in our relations with the EU. Accessing this Convention will provide a basis for deepening co-operation and creating additional trust at all. "In particular, in the field of tax matters there will be improvement of concrete activities in the sector and in the field itself, and this will build additional trust between us and our partners. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia, which in its programme definition represents the view that authorities must provide comfort, health care and income education from taxes, supports Serbia's accession to the convention. Our parliamentary group will vote for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-15-1.u57999	Thank you, colleague Karanac. The word has a folk MP, Jahja Fehratovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-15-1.u58000	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, correcting any injustice that has hit any man in the 1990s is commendable, especially when it comes to the fact that people who are their life savings, what generations have earned, invested in banks, believing in that system, that it is important to enable them today to make their entire life savings a way back and that this is the way of healing an entire nation, an entire nation, an entire nation. Finally, the kind of courage of this government and the state of Serbia shows that we are on the path of healing and the path of prosperity that will allow, while respecting other people's assets, other people's earnings, and others to respect and correct those stereotype images they had towards this country and these banking systems. That is why in the day of voting, we will certainly support this proposal and these proposals, because we believe that the basic right of every individual to repay what is owed to him, and in this case especially because he believed in this system, invested his life savings, life savings and expected, here, almost three decades to return it to him. On the other hand, it is very important that these and such actions indicate that the state has become strong, strong and financial enough and in any other sense respect not only for its citizens, but also for those who have trusted it, and today they belong to other countries, thus building up and restoring trust in one country, in one system and in one society as a whole. Of course, this second bill is also important because by importing different types of co-operation and conventions etc. In the tax system, I think it's a lot less possible for those who try different types of embezzlement, fraud to distract certain systems in order to take some of their property and transfer, say, where it's much easier to bypass the tax. It is therefore important that we have as many of these and these laws as possible and that we are healing the entire tax administration system, because, therefore, we will also strengthen our position and thus have most of the resources available, which, again, we can return to citizens through capital and other projects. Therefore, the MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party always support such laws that reflect a quality, a reflection of an organised and a reflection of a well thought-out policy, and which gives one particular security and hope to the citizens that we are finally going towards the path for this country to become a well-organised system, because if we look at Western Europe, and also that Germany, which is one of the most developed countries of Western Europe and the world, we will see that this security that citizens feel in it, is actually resting on a stable tax and banking system. So this example and this kind of relationship, first and foremost, towards old savings, then and according to other obligations, go in that direction. We very strongly support every kind of decision like this, and in voting day we will support these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-15-1.u58001	Thank you, colleague Fehratovic. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-15-1.u58002	Thank you, Chairman. Honorable ministers with associates, the SPS parliamentary group, as our friend Zvonko Stevic, as the authorised representative for today's debate, will point out, will support your proposals for the laws we are discussing today. I will focus on the first of the laws and perhaps a small simplification, for the sake of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, to clarify that it is a foreign exchange saving from the area of the former Yugoslavia, laid down by banks whose headquarters is on the territory of Serbia and their branches in the territory of the former republics of the SFRY. The reminders are due to the foreign deposits of around 310m euros, laid down by 27 April 1992. I think I've given the exact information, if I haven't, I'm asking you to correct me in this number, but I think it's precisely this figure that I've just pointed out, and that's the amount of interest that's being calculated, starting in 2016. As my respected predecessors, who in their professional reference to these issues, have pointed out, in order to improve the position of foreign savings, and this is about the basic objective of the proposed amendments and addition of the law. In that sense, I would not repeat what has already been said, especially from the predecessors who pointed out facts that cannot be doubted, especially what my distinguished colleague Ivan Bauer pointed out. What I want to particularly underline and to focus in some way are the problems identified in connection with the collection of the necessary documentation, which led to the need to extend in the first place the deadline for submitting applications, but also to recognise the right to collect public debt to citizens who, as a confirmation of foreign savings, instead of foreign savings books, received foreign exchange cards. So, indeed, an absolute nonsens, which is regulated by legislation, i.e. by system solutions, must be corrected, and we are doing so today. The extension of the deadline for submitting claims, in addition, I do not think that this is highlighted, has yet another consequence, and this is due to the extension of the maturity deadlines of the bonds. I don't think even in the context of the proposed laws there's one such information listed, but it's certainly true. Dear Minister, I would like to comment on something that is extremely well-intentioned for you and your proposals, which is that in no case is the situation that occurred to us with the succession of assets under the Agreement on Sucession. Why am I saying this? I'm talking about the Republic of Croatia. The reminders are working, and you know very well, the Commercial Court in Zagreb recently reached a verdict rejecting the Jugobanka claim for the return of 20m euros in credit, the beneficiary of which is the same credit to the Croatian company Vortex. Reminders for the sake of this same Croatian company, Vortex, have earned the right to recover the entire property in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and that of businesses, locals, therefore, a complete business space. In return, the Commercial Court delivers a verdict which is unfortunately and judicial, I am talking about the Commercial Court in Zagreb, which is denying the "Yugobanks" right to repay a 20m-euro loan, and then the "Yugobank" is overrun by a total burden of obligation. Moreover, it is interesting that Jumko from Serbia, unlike the company Vortex from Croatia, who was otherwise handed over the entire property, so Jumko returned the property to Vortex. This same "Jumko" failed to restore one single store in the centre of Zagreb in the area of 750 square meters. Why am I saying this? I'm talking precisely because in a situation like this, a conflict agreement should be respected. Our courts respected that agreement. We didn't wait for the so-called. bilateral agreements between Croatia and Serbia and made the judgments they made and not in the way the Trade Court in Zagreb did, but on the contrary, protecting the property of the Republic of Croatia. Of course, I will not condemn the courts in this way because the courts have finally reached a verdict that corrects this injustice and makes a kind of reciprocity to protect the property of our businesses. I think these facts are very well known to you, Minister. Why do I point them out in particular? Because through these laws we are equating citizens and saving the former republics and saving Serbia. And that is absolutely correct and it is absolutely in line with what the EU in some way imposes on us, not only the European Court in Strasbourg through the verdict you mentioned, but also through the harmonisation process that we are leading to a final goal, which is the accession of the Republic of Serbia to the EU. I wouldn't want what I pointed out to be a negative example to reflect this situation. I don't think they will, given that here the legislation is too clear, precise and unequivocal and in any case, protects everyone's interest. In the end, I just want to confirm once again that your legal proposals are more than good. I'm not going to talk about a tax ejaculation that my colleague Bauer specifically pointed to. I just want to confirm that this is going towards that ultimate goal, and the ultimate goal is to prevent tax evasion, or financial consolidation, the establishment of financial discipline, where you've done a lot, and here you have our great support and just keep going. Once again, full support for the bill you've made today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-15-1.u58003	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-15-1.u58004	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we're talking about part of the debt based on old foreign currency savings. The biggest victims of the 1990s weren't foreign currency savings. They will be returned in one way or another to the foreign exchange, even from the pyramid banks. And that's where the state sided with the savings. The biggest victims are dinar savings. Hundreds and hundreds of millions of euros were in account in the 1990s. They believed in their country, they believed in its currency, and inflation cleaned up the savings in favour of the debts. All the losers, the debtors, the borrowers, everything they owed, inflation wiped out, but those who have been saving hard are also wiped out. They have not obtained the right to be returned to them in one way or in the way that was brought before for foreign exchanges, nor will their savings be returned to them, nor will they be returned. They have given a certain burden to banks, a burden of social peace, along with agriculture. Most farmers were saved in dinars, most of the savings were lost, such as through low prices, financing social peace, lost a lot of things. Agriculture never got that back. The biggest farmers today, in the 1990s, did not think of farming, but rather of smuggling oil derivatives, cigarettes and everything else. Later, they turned that money, very cheaply, into a privatization into a huge area of agricultural land. The state was withdrawing loans before sanctions, loans were paid to banks, and loans were paid to businesses. After the change in 2000, domestic banks were liquidated. In this way, the companies that were to repay these loans and whose assets the banks could sell and compensate for foreign and dinar savings have become easy prey in privatisation, better said grabbing. Those resources could be recovered from that mass. By 2011, however, according to international organisations, the easy prey created by the liquidation of domestic banks, and thus the trustee of various companies, the capital went to the Virgin and various other Cook Islands. According to estimates of international organisations, over $51 billion was missing by 2011, Privatisation or better said Grabbing left over 400,000 people out of work. Pension funds thus became empty, pensions were paid out of a new debt, the party's main product of the former regime was debt. They didn't even know anything else, and it's not only a problem that we're in charge, it's because they didn't create a source to pay back the debt. On the contrary, they destroyed it, the economy that could repay that debt was destroyed, given to various tycoons into depravity, and by firing workers, on the income side, many have moved on to scale. Thus, pension funds, health funds were emptied, and in 2012 we found a house of naked walls, a house where no host was known, an empty house where it's hard to be more orderly. So, a house that's been pushed almost into the dust, and in order to make the house back, you have to be patient about making clay so you can bake bricks, cracks, to rebuild the state takes time. So I welcome the state's decision to return the rest of the foreign savings and I think it's in favour, not only of those who get the money, it's in favour of the state. The state thus shows that private savings, citizens' property, are untouchable and that anyone who touches it will have to return it. We inherited, we're government in the state, we inherited the former state's obligations. I think that the Croats cheated on us for various properties by sea, various companies from Serbia, the various banks from Serbia were left without property in Croatia. I don't know what more we can recover, but it's our turn to restore the trust of our savings in our banking system and it's no accident that we seem to have a billion euros more in foreign exchange reserves this year than we had before. It is probably due to the fact that the state has regained citizens' trust in savings and that citizens have decided to save, not only in euros, not only in foreign currency, but in dinars. So I welcome this way to return the rest of the foreign exchange savings, and later, at the end of the session, I will also look back at the taxes of various tricks and therefore thank you for your attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-15-1.u58005	Thank you, colleague Rističević. The word has a folk MP, Tanja Tomašević Damnjanovic. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-15-1.u58006	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Mr. Ministers with Associates, colleagues and fellow Members of People's MPs, is now on the agenda, in addition to the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Debt Regulation of the Republic of Serbia on the basis of unpaid foreign exchange savings, and the proposal for a law on the certification of the Convention on Mutual Administrative Assistance in Tax Matters, which is the result of the joint work of the Council of Europe and the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, and its aim is to promote international co-operation, in order to improve the functioning of national tax laws, with respect for the basic rights of taxpayers. This Agreement allows Member States of the Council of Europe and OECD Member States to develop extensive administrative co-operation on common ground and respecting the basic rights of taxpayers, which covers all mandatory taxes with the exception of customs fees. Increased mutual support aims to help fight tax evasion and is accompanied by security measures to protect taxpayers, both individual and corporate, as well as national economies. The 2008 financial crisis has affected the realization that existing co-operation instruments between countries on tax issues and tax institutes themselves were not adequate. The high tax evasion situation, tax avoidance led to the need to intensify activities at international level to create new rules in the matter of international taxation and administrative co-operation in tax matters. That's exactly why you signed this convention. The Convention provides for the provision of assistance between signatories States in the form of exchanges of requests, spontaneous, automatic exchanges of notifications, assistance in the collection of foreign tax claims, and assistance in the delivery of documentation. Serbia is the 112st country to sign the Convention, which has already ratified 100 countries. Due to the EU Council's warning of the possibility for Serbia to be included in the EU a list of non-cooperative jurisdictions in tax matters, as well as for the purpose of improving the transparency of the tax system in the Republic of Serbia, as well as the preservation of the reputation that thanks to the responsible policy, led by the president of the state, Aleksandar Vukic and the Government, Serbia has at international level, Serbia has also committed itself to signing and confirming the Convention by the end of 2019. In view of the above and of the exceptional importance of these draft laws, the SNS will support these proposals in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-15-1.u58007	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Jelena Vujic Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-15-1.u58008	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, old foreign savings, another legacy from the past. It is true that it is a technical law, we have two draft laws, but it should also be spoken of, because in this way, I say, foreign savings that invested their assets and savings in banks after 30 years will be able to return their foreign currency savings, and the state of Serbia shows its responsibility to all Serbian citizens. Dear Ministers, Mr. Mali, the Parliamentary Group of Unity Serbia, Dragan Markovic Palma, will give full support to all proposed legislative proposals, as well as the proposed Convention you gave, in the voting day. This confirmed that the Republic of Serbia is very responsible for its citizens who had foreign savings laid down by banks, and because of the public and the citizens of Serbia to point out, it is about foreign savings whose headquarters is on the territory of the Republic of Serbia and their branches in the territories of the former republics of the SFRY. These proposed amendments allow citizens to collect documentation for six months to submit and return their old foreign currency savings to the Commission. According to the data you provided, it is a debt of 310m euros laid down by 07 April 1992, I think I made the exact data, and it is, according to the data I had, about 1,600 cases, and you have made about 2,003 items, but complete documentation, or the exact number of savings, to be known only when everyone submits their applications and when the Commission establishes a final state. So, this law was passed in 2016 and these amendments and additions to the laws will be reduced, to say the deadline for the payments to the savings of their old foreign savings, while referring not only to the savings, but also to their successors of foreign savings, if necessary documentation, of course documenting their inheritance. Also, the Commission for drawing up a proposal for payment rights has the possibility, but also the obligation to collect documents that are necessary for citizens, for which citizens have turned, of course, which citizens have not yet managed because of technical problems and reasons to collect, because many have only given them a certificate that is invalid in our country and thus they will be able to collect documentation, because it is very controversial because it is because of the banks that most of them are bankrupt. In order not to be a citizen, the finance ministry reduced the number of half-yearly payments from ten to eight months and thus the deadline for payment instead of February 2024 was moved to August 2023. So, the start of the first payment is moving in six months, but the wars are bigger and shorter. So it is a bill that is in the interest of Serbian citizens, which shows the responsibility of the Republic of Serbia towards its citizens and the JS parliamentary group will support this bill. We also have another law on the agenda, which has also been submitted by the Ministry of Finance, a proposal for a law confirming the Convention, mutual administrative assistance in tax matters. We are aware that in previous reforms, especially when it comes to the financial situation of the state, pensioners may have suffered perhaps the greatest burden, but it has been shown that there has been growth and wages and pensions that are now significantly higher and the citizens of Serbia know that the Republic of Serbia is becoming an economically stronger, economically advanced country and the parties in power are assessing high scores. Dear Ministers, Mr Mali, you will also have support when it comes to this proposal for a law confirming the Convention by the JS parliamentary group. Since the Member States of the Council of Europe and the Member States for economic co-operation and the development of the signatories of this Convention, including the Republic of Serbia, this shows that the Republic of Serbia is becoming stronger in these international relations. This is also very much contributed by our president's relationship with other countries, both in the environment and in these world countries. As far as international relations are concerned, we today also have a very important visit to the president with the President of France, where about 20 agreements are announced, including economic and financial agreements. Also, there is no need to ignore the enormous importance of Minister Ivica Dacic, who at all international meetings of potentials is a very important status of the Republic of Serbia and Kosovo where we have the withdrawal of a large number of countries, around 13 countries have withdrawn recognition of an independent Kosovo. We have six more countries to announce. Also our JS President, Dragan Markovic Palma, who at all meetings both in the country, when foreign diplomats come to him and abroad. It is now in Greece, working on all possible relations and meetings to improve the two countries' international relations. We are in Jagodina i.e. President Dragan Markovic Palm was also visited by the governor of the Red Sea of Egypt and this is all very important how to contribute to international relations, because we absolutely need foreign investments, we need factories. Dragan Markovic Palma is one of the initiators of bringing foreign investors. That's what President Vukic does now. The JS parliamentary group will give you full support on the path to reform and everything you do to the honourable ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-15-1.u58009	I thank my colleague Vujić Obradović. The word has the People's Messenger Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-15-1.u58010	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Minister, I have followed the presentation of colleagues who support these points of the agenda, and especially those who have discussed this international convention on aid in the tax procedure among states signatories and have seen that they do not actually understand that this Convention is a legal framework adopted by the Member States of the Council of Europe and that this is one mechanism that can, in multilateral relations between countries, help remove certain issues, as you mentioned, prevent money laundering, terrorism, tax evasion and everything else. However, there are a lot of lawyers here in the O.R. and in our parliamentary group, as well as in the ruling coalition, and now we come to what kind of obstacles can now be found in the way of implementing such an agreement, or convention. This material right that needs to be applied and really real, and also inheritedly, depends on what the tax is paid for, is different from the country to the country and there are many cases in a situation where bilateral agreements are made to avoid double taxation between the country and the country. So Serbia is signatories with many countries of such an agreement that they must remove all such legal uncertainty in order to know what is being applied. You will agree with me that the income tax is not the same in another country, as it is in Serbia. After all, we too, when we started with the VAT billing, that tax rate was unique to all products, and later, as time changed, and we Serbian radicals always insisted that children's clothes, shoes, what is necessary, school supplies and everything else, medical means must have a lower tax rate, and then it turns out that it was also charming compared to other countries. So it's not just a matter of talking, of praising something, it's going to take away all these difficulties right now. It is simply not true, because it is much more important, Mr. Minister, the Convention on Income and Property Tax, as it is applied, and I will say that and therefore whether any non-residents and residents in the Republic of Serbia are hiding something, trying in this way to wash money and how to jump into it. I have to start with the example of famous Cvetan Vasilev, a home friend, the best probably at the time, Tomislav Nikolic, who was like the Bulgarian tycoon who was on the warrant of Bulgaria, EU members, by 2006, in Serbia bought a glass factory "Paracin", or headed there with jobs, all with the intention of restoring the production of the famous, oldest glass mill in Europe and starting some business. Since the renewal of the job, there's only been one of his three-way investments to restore some kind of furnace. Imagine, in 2012, that he could produce bottles for the Tomors' brandy. Later it turned out, through all that was available to our authorities, as well as to the Tax Administration of Serbia and Bulgaria, that it was a great fraud, the one who turned black through his company Rubin in Bulgaria, left the workers out of work, and with the help of the then chairman of the ruling party, the President of the Republic continued to do until the moment until all the furnaces were sold and went to old iron and 250 people were out of work, and the factory declared bankrupt. Now, imagine you, you have a situation, here's hypothetically, that some foreign citizen wants to invest in the construction industry in Serbia, make buildings, it's now popular, it doesn't matter where, on Kopalnik, in Zlatibor, in Belgrade, in Novi Sad, absolutely irrelevant. And you are now checking through this international convention, its legal and tax status in that country. The prospect is clear and you get information from the tax authorities of that country, which is the signatories of this Convention, that it is a person who regularly pays taxes there, therefore, there is nothing. But Serbia, on the other hand, suspects or burdens, or already has war crimes charges against that person. Well, you're not going to let, if you say it's all right, Naser Oriæ to make hotels and buildings all over Ljubovija, according to Loznica, by Pupac, or maybe you will, or you'll allow it the same thing to some Shiptar terrorists. What about those, Mr. Minister, because this Convention cannot treat the issue, but that is a question for you and for the Ministry of the Interior, who are residents of the Republic of Serbia? So we almost passed the Foreign Law, right, and we Serbian radicals said that we absolutely respect that every stranger should come to Serbia and invest. But imagine, he's a resident here and he has a passport from some other country, so here he has the right to a permanent stay, and in that other country, he's also suspected of some of the jobs he's managed to do there. Do you know, Mr. Minister, how many of those come from the area of a false terrorist state, so-called. Kosovo, which have or have earned the right to have citizenship here, because of course KIM is part of the comprehensive territory of the Republic of Serbia, and money from dirty jobs, mostly from drugs, because it is the biggest transit in the reports of all security agencies and structures and our country, but world-wide, for drug trafficking. Nice, they come to Belgrade, here in Kragujevac, anywhere, buying apartments, renting them, and not paying taxes on it, or dealing with similar machinations. Now that's a question - how can it be prevented? We have another situation, Mr. Minister, mentioned some of it to our authorised representative, colleague Mircic, but here's a clean and concrete case. Is Serbia not a signator of the Double Taxation Agreement with the Republic of Italy? Yes, it is. So how are we going to solve the case of the Italian plant Fiat, which operates in my hometown? We have a situation that you told me last time that you didn't know a single letter of that contract, because the secret, as well as the annex of that contract, is that the Italians, or Fiat, are free of tax and contribution. They don't pay property taxes. The income tax, the question is how much they pay and whether they pay it at all, we don't know any of it. The Italian company received 50% more from total investment subsidies than from its investment, the country of Serbia at the start of 300m euros. After that, we vouched here as a state for a $500 million loan. It's said to be over a billion-dollar number, but also when we take all those releases that the town of Kragujevac gave in the construction of that factory, they're dizzy figures of several hundred million euros that have no cover in any tax system. Since we have this Double Tax Liberation Treaty, so I guess if you don't have the opportunity to have insight into the contract, then ask your Italian colleagues, nicely call the finance minister, the director of the Tax Administration of Italy - sorry, and what do they pay there on the basis of their business in Serbia, if they don't pay taxes and contributions, are released for ten years for employees? So, we come to this, and how do they, as a foreign company, who should respect the laws of this country, and here by this Convention, and pay taxes and behave in accordance with our legal system, can treat these employees as well, send them on vacation as they please? At this point, believe me, I don't know if half of those working on paper are going to work. It's July 15th, until a few days ago, a lot of people didn't go. Those who don't go, who send forced vacations, give them only 65% of the salary. Then the question arises, here they are foreign companies, doing business here and being treated according to this Convention, how on so many days they send a full-time employee, didn't the law limit how long it took, how many people can work? Of course it is, and those of the total number of working days do a hundred and a few days, the rest – sit at home, with the opportunity to invite you or not to call you. These are all questions, Mr. Minister, which you must remove because these agreements, otherwise we understand each other, are known by fellow Marinkovic, after that pack you received from Fabrizio that these agreements and conventions are being put on the agenda, so that we have a debate one point at a time, here we now have two joints. You know how many of these agreements were in those 64 points, 58, 46 that no one was paying attention, and most of the time, Mr. Minister, these are the very agreements to prevent double taxation. No one talked about it almost, and he wasn't interested in it. Now it has to, it fills all this time. So nothing like this is epochal. I will end up with what is very important, and that is how you will prevent it, many of them are also passport and other countries, certain phenomena, of course both Montenegro and BiH, certain persons to avoid tax and make machinations with companies that are in the blockade, which they buy? Then think about it, Mr. Minister, what's the interest of a man to buy 50, 60, 90 of these companies, isn't that suspicious to you, both to you and to the law enforcement? I haven't had time, here I am finishing, to talk about this model of the Convention that I mentioned, about income and property tax, because Article 26 of this Convention represents this key standard for determining which person, whether a legal person or a natural person in a country is breaking the law or not. But there is one other thing that is very important because of our countrymen from Republika Srpska, which is that they are in a certain position of discrimination according to our positive legal regulations, or the tax system of the Republic of Serbia, because although the residents of the Republic of Serbia are buying the first apartment, many of them have found jobs here, waiting for a passport or ultimately their right to surrender, they have a passport of BiH, but they have a permanent stay here. They are not free of VAT, which is a very big mistake, i.e. the VAT return to purchase the first facility, and we then destimulate our people who are even in the process of seeking citizenship and who want to live here, to invest further, and possibly have some of their own money to invest in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-15-1.u58011	Thank you, Mrs. Jovanovic. Right on the line, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-15-1.u58012	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, it is amazing that this wish and regrettable that Tomislav Nikolic defeated Boris Tadic in the 2012 presidential elections, and that Aleksandar Vukic's sending him into political history also seems to me to be their greatest sins. For the sake of truth, the first spray of the Paracino glass factory was privatized in February 2007 under Boris Tadic's regime, Dragan Djilas, Bojan Pajtic, and not to list the rest of the team. Now, Tomislav Nikolic is being attacked because he won Boris Tadic in the presidential election and is attributed to the sins of Boris Tadic, Bojan Pajtic and Dragan Dilas. For nothing more, they can't come back and can't ever beat Tomislav Nikolic again, and neither can Alexander Vukic, which is a mental noun for them. If the biggest sin of the SNS is that of one tycoon, the mafia organisation of the former regime is deprived of power, here, we accept all the criticism, all the criticism, all the blame is for Aleksandar Vukic and Tomislav Nikolic that these can no longer steal any single dinar from Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-15-1.u58013	Thank you, colleague Arsic. The right to replica has Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-15-1.u58014	I expected you first to say the name Alexander Vukic and then Tomislav Nikolic, but you, Arsic, remained sorry for Nikolic. However, do not replace thesis. So, I specifically asked Mr. Minister, I believe that by the end of this debate, as well as under what conditions, I repeat again, all the furnaces were destroyed in 2012, and in 2017, a bankruptcy was declared in the Paracina glass mill. Of course, another question for the Ministry of Finance and the Tax Administration, which, despite all the potentials of the SRS, did not examine, and not only us, but also various other researchers and journalists, the business of the Dragica Nikolic Foundation, which is precisely the tycoon that wrapped the glass glass and deposed it completely, wrapped the workers in black, funded the entire time of its business. But you saw that she wasn't giving up. Now people have to, and those who had to give that racket to that foundation, to run, to hide the phone, because she calls, calls, calls, calls, couples never enough, but they're people like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-15-1.u58015	Thank you, Mrs. Jovanovic. The right to replica has Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-15-1.u58016	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, so I respect that Tomislav Nikolic beat Boris Tadic, and I also respect that Aleksandar Vukic is working for Serbia today to make Serbia a modern developed country that everyone respects in the world. But I will never respect the character and work of Zoran Zivkovic, who told this mantra about Tomislav Nikolic and the first Serbian glass factory in Paracin the Dragica Nikolic Fund. This was said by Zoran Zivkovic here, the prime minister who destroyed our "Sartid" in privatisation through a bankruptcy court in 2003. Well, I can never be his respecter of character and action, and whoever's based on his discussions, he certainly doesn't do it very well.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-15-1.u58017	Thank you, colleague Arsic. Mrs Jovanovic, your colleague Arsic did not even mention you, but only Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-15-1.u58018	I only succeeded during this debate, Mr. Minister, the controversy over whether Dragica Nikolic is a mobster or not, I am responsible for saying she is, but it is not only this Bulgarian financier, but also some of them who are being set up, and these are enterprises, for example, from Crna Trava, I think it is called "Banković" d.o.o. Imagine, in Kragujevac, work gets one such firm where 600 or 700 000 euros are to be washed at the construction of a park, etc. So, a lot of things are, did anyone else talk about it, we don't know, we held press conferences, when no one, when we had the first traces of money laundering, over seven million by the foundation, but it's unfortunate that such connections and such a function were abused, and especially these close tycoon ties with this Bulgarian, that the citizens are lying, that they are being deceived, and in the end, that they become enormously rich in such a short time.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-15-1.u58019	Thank you, Mrs. Jovanovic. Now the word is Natasha St. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-15-1.u58020	Thank you, Chairman. I will take this opportunity to explain to the citizens what this supplement of the law is taking place, in order to meet the savings obligations and to underline the country's responsible behaviour towards its obligations. It is about foreign exchange savings from the area of former Yugoslavia laid down by banks whose headquarters is on Serbia's territory and their branches on the territory of the former SFRY republics. Following the European Court of Human Rights' ruling in Strasbourg, it was allowed to save foreign currency from the former Yugoslav republics to exercise their rights. After the damaged savings of the Ljubljanska Banka, Invest Banka Sarajevo, Tuzla, Jugobanka from Split, then Beobanka and others, there were problems regarding the collection of the necessary documentation that led to the need to extend the deadline for submitting applications, and to recognise the right to collect public debt to citizens who, as a confirmation of foreign savings instead of foreign savings books, where a better review was provided, received foreign exchange card cards. The extension of the time limit for submitting applications for the collection of documents shall result in a shift in the maturity deadlines of the bonds themselves. In addition, certain provisions in the bill have been further clarified, avoiding the need for interpretation. The implementation of the law also provided funds in the Republic of Serbia's budget. The reminders, for example, are about 310m euros in foreign exchange deposits, laid down by 27 April 1992, and interest was included in that amount by 2016. There are about 8,000 people reported here. The president of the Association of Old Savings Mr. Radovan Đuric said in time that they had gone to the governor of the National Bank of Radovan Jelasic and indicated that there could be a buy-out of the foreign savings, however, they thought that if the banks went into bankruptcy, the obligation would cease. No, he won't. For example, the Ljubljanska Banka encouraged citizens themselves to sell their roles prematurely with a discount of at least 20% through authorized agencies. This justifies the uncertainty of paying off the issue of the ex-SFRJ's succession of assets, so the debt of 300 million marks was redeemed for a much smaller amount. During the deposit of savings in different currencies, it was converted into euro, according to a mid-level exchange rate from the National Bank of Yugoslavia, which was valid on 1 January 2002. Now the liabilities to foreign savings are executed by the conversion of savings roles into amortization bonds. The Republic of Serbia retains, of course, the right to claim from the SFRJ's states on the basis of foreign exchange savings payments and that represents its public debt. Obligations have been recalculated by the conversion of savings roles into depreciation bonds, and therefore the foreign exchange savings in euro are made according to the inter-currency relationship towards the middle rate of dinars in the National Bank's Curricula. The Serbian Progressive Party is conducting a responsible policy, paying off debts from 30 years ago, as it guarantees the state of Serbia, and also repays the loans that the irresponsible previous government has put us in. We have a very difficult task, to make progress, and at the same time to pay back our debts. It is up to us to restore the country's reputation, to make sure that where the state of Serbia is guaranteed, there is no doubt that the obligations will be paid. The citizens see it, and that's why they support us in all elections, and we know we can't stop, and we have to endure in the beginning, because of all of us, and especially because of the future that we have to build on a healthy basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-15-1.u58021	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. The word is Milija Miletic. You've got a little time, 32 seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-15-1.u58022	Dear Chairman, distinguished Minister Mali, Madam Secretary of State Jelena Tanaskovic, representatives of the ministry, fellow MPs and citizens of Serbia, I am Milija Miletic, and I come from the most beautiful municipality in Serbia, that is Svrljig municipality, which is next to the most beautiful city in Serbia, which is the town of Nis. In the Serbian Parliament, I represent the United Peasant Party, and I was elected from the Serbian Progressive Party list. Together at the Socialist Movement Parliament Club, the People's Peasants' Party, the United Peasants' Party, we want to work in the interest of all those people living in the country, living from the village and the interest of all those people in southeastern Serbia. I will support the proposal of these laws, because it is necessary for our citizens who have problems. Thank you again, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-15-1.u58023	Thank you, fellow Miletic. The People's MP, Marija Jevdzic, has the word. She's not present. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-15-1.u58024	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the announcement of today's agenda, we have some like epochal proposals of the law again, which is certainly not true. This was the most reminder of what was announced by that lex specialis about "Switzerland" and, behold, you know well that the problems of these loans are not solved by that law and will not be. That's what we talked about then and it turns out we're right and we're not happy about it. We are never happy when it turns out that we are right, when, in fact, what is being passed here in the form of a law is not in the interest of Serbian citizens, or it may formally appear to be, but it doesn't mean anything at all. That's right with this bill of law, with this big title, and it applies to the deadline for the return of the old foreign currency savings. It really doesn't make any sense here, you're in the explanation, though, saying - moving deadlines is a result of the inability to save supplies of documentation from competent institutions in the former republics until 23 June 2019 and obtain the right to pay off the old foreign savings. So, this deadline of 23 June 2019 has already passed and, if we look formally, they have already lost that right. Next, what does this Article 5 even mean? What do they get a team? Obligations to persons, I now quote that member, according to the provisions of this law, which give rise to the right to pay off foreign exchange savings were executed in 10, and now in eight equal half-years of war, that is, the advantage that comes to you, now beware, every 31 August and 28 February, beginning on 31 August 2019 and ending on 29 February 2024, was so, and now, starting on 28 February and 31 August, began from 28 February 2020 and ending on 31 August 2023. So, this deadline is shrinking, and you're passing the law to extend the time limit for them to obtain documentation. This simply doesn't make any sense, and, you know, if this is based on the court's decision in Strasbourg, then whoever went to the court in Strasbourg should have prepared the paperwork. Which is why he was tried in Strasbourg in the first place, if he didn't need the paperwork. What would we be waiting for later and extending his time limit if the law had already established a time limit within which they had to obtain certain documentation? You know, when it comes to old foreign exchange savings and banks, it's inevitable that we remind ourselves a little of what happened to our Serbian banks and the fact that for 20 years, almost, in Serbia, we have foreign banks, which in Serbia operate under much more unfavourable conditions for citizens and legal persons than they do in their countries and in fact they only have the name of banks from those countries where these parent banks are, and essentially they behave quite differently here than anywhere in the world. How did that happen? We must never forget, as long as Labus, Dinkic, Djelic and the team do not go to jail for shutting down Serbian banks that are not yet literally shut down, which they still have, and that Sinisa Mali, the minister, certainly knows, certain funds deposited and as long as they do not go to prison we will not stop talking about it. We, unlike the authorities, are not just going to say – here, this one is guilty of this, he is guilty of what, and these guilty people continue to fertilize their capital every day and keep getting richer, still with power either directly or indirectly, and they don't care about what they did to Serbia and what they did to the people in Serbia. We all remember when they started shutting down these banks, Dinkic was there, like, at the head of the column, and then people were employed in banks, and the most normally in banks were employed women and then those women, the winter period was, then those women went out to protest, went out in front of banks, in front of the Social Accounting Service, which was also abolished, to protest the abolition of banks. So, you know, the power of media spin, what happened? All the newspapers were published during those days, because women were in coats, with not being a status symbol at the time, then almost every working woman who went on vacation for example to Greece was coming back with a coat, and it was not too expensive at all, nor did it mean that there was no money if she was wearing this most common coat, but the media presented it as – the pumpkins rebel against the authorities, the pumpkins strike. Then, you know, how it got into people's ears, so no one else had empathy and felt with those bank employees, on the contrary, that's when ordinary people are like this, when you meet someone on the street, they say, what they do in the coats are up and they should get fired, when they see what it's like for us. So it was done so nicely, such manipulation of the media was that there was no maltene left without any serious reaction that had shut down our banks. Then what happens to bringing these banks that have produced and the Swiss and so on, is a really special problem, and as much as we talk about, it's never enough and we repeat it won't be enough until the actors go to jail. You all remember when Djindjic opened the National Savings Bank, so he threw in, gave up some first dinar or something. Well, when it was discovered that it was a big con, then he said he didn't know it was a private bank but he really thought, well, Dinkic convinced him it was really a national savings bank because it was called the National Savings Bank. There was a lot of things in this country in Serbia, and this people survived, but thank God we'll survive whatever's going on, but here, God forbid it's really and finally something and better. But, hardly, from laws like this, we can expect God to know what's better. Sinisa Mali, the minister announced that it would already be in autumn, that he would offer tax policy laws here, that there would be serious reforms, and we really expect it to be that way, because you are aware of Mr. Minister, and we have talked about it several times, here and when we participated in the debate about how much trouble the tax administration is, in tax collection. This Convention on mutual administrative assistance in tax matters will not help. Well said counterpart Natasa Jovanovic, which is all a framework, but each state has its specificities. Here, for example, is there even a country in the world to charge VAT for electricity that is not spent. You know, how does that happen? You have a house somewhere, a cottage, a family house you visit twice a year, so no one turns on a single light bulb, you get a 750 dinar bill, and it says it's a VAT. How is it calculated that it's just that much? Based on what? What is the assumed consumption? And consumption is zero. That account says zero consumption, and VAT 750 dinars. So, for nothing, 150,000 conventions of this anomaly obviously nobody wants to correct, I'm not going to say that no one knows or that no one can. It's just that no one wants to because no one really cares about doing something in the interests of Serbian citizens. Do you know how many people like that are complaining, mostly complaining about local self-government? Of course, not everyone can know who's in charge of what problem but people somehow mean to go to their community for everything that bothers them. But if 20 people get into one municipality with such a problem, so if that officer over there doesn't know how it happened, I guess it's his duty and his business and his morals, and whatever you want to go to that power distribution in that place so he can ask around, so maybe he can explain it to people, then there's a memo to the finance ministry to see how to say that problem to solve. Of course, not everyone can know who's in charge of what problem but people somehow mean to go to their community for everything that bothers them. But if 20 people get into one municipality with such a problem, so if that officer over there doesn't know how it happened, I guess it's his duty and his business and his morals, and whatever you want to go to that power distribution in that place so he can ask around, so maybe he can explain it to people, then there's a memo to the finance ministry to see how to say that problem to solve. Will this Convention convince you that Serbia finally needs to be taxed in a certain way by passionate individuals, athletes who make the most of their earnings? Of course, I don't want to mention any names, I don't want to mention, I don't have anything against those people, but simply if someone makes any bigger money, then there's a tax to be paid. And those money people don't make secret money, so you have posters here and there's this one and that one, the ticket so much and so much. You know how many places there are, a gym where someone shows up, but they're mostly registered in some countries abroad, they pay taxes, and nobody pays anything here. So, you have to solve some of these important things. Then here's a colleague talking about how tycoons came into existence, how Miskovic became a tycoon in privatisation. It's not Miskovic's fault, neither is Kola Kostic, which he bought the sugar shop for one euro. He didn't pay one euro and go to the sugar shop and say good day, I'm your boss, I bought you. Neither Miskovic thus privatised, nor anyone who did privatisations was responsible, at least not to the extent that those who were officials were responsible, high-ranking state officials who allowed such corruption jobs. And again, as long as they do not comply with the law, I am convinced that there are elements and convicted, but I respect the presupposition of innocence, so as long as there are no criminal proceedings against Dinkic, Labus, Vlahovic, Tadic, Cvetkovic, Djilas and all others involved in this, we cannot solve these starting problems. You can't skip an entire era to draw a line and move on. It can't be like that. You keep saying that you are the state of continuity, the government of continuity, of course, the state has the continuity that you are the authority of continuity with that previous government. You say that when it suits you, and when it doesn't suit you, then you talk about who's responsible and then you say these are relapses of the past, etc. If the relapses of the past are clear with them, clear up, engage the competent authorities and let us see once in action and Zagorko Dolovac, and see in the work and service of police security, etc., in this sense to see who is most responsible and how much, in fact, the state of Serbia has lost money in these privatisations. Where did the money go? How many taxes are hidden here? How much money has been washed? So, there's a lot of these problems that we can't solve with just a political story, we're asking you to finally respond, and you're saying, it's not easy for you, Minister, you found out I don't know what. That's right. There's a lot of things found, but it can't move on until it clears up with what's been found. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-15-1.u58025	Thank you, colleague Radeta. The right to reply, to mention the parliamentary group, has Vladimir Orlic, then Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-15-1.u58026	On several occasions today, it seems to me, we're in the middle of a little bit of thinking that we've exchanged before. A few things have been said today. Here is now in this final address that we have been indicated that the law governing the issue of housing loans indexed in Swiss francs will not give us any effect. Right? Did we talk about this? But it's not a good conclusion. Here's a few days ago official data says 90% of these loans were converted, in accordance with the law we adopted. What's he saying, what? People think it's useful. Which says we were right when we said it was good for people. Earlier today, again as a reminder of something we discussed, on the gray FATF list. So, let me remind those who have forgotten. They claimed and falsely said that we were on the blacklist, the minors agreed with Vuk Jeremic, who said that we would get economic sanctions, and what Shabic was saying, so now I seem to have forgotten myself these days. We were saying to remind you of that. It's not about any black list. We talked in less than a year you'll see we won't be on that list. We have spoken, adopted and prepared everything we need to improve and strengthen our system on the fight against crime and corruption. Who was right in the end? Well, you know who. Serbia is no longer on any list, and in the meantime thanks to these laws that we adopted, and some here are pretending to understand something better, in fact they didn't understand anything, they have to admit today that 532 people, according to these laws, have become subject to the interest of the authorities. We already have 532 convictions for crime and corruption, thanks to those laws that we adopted, and that is an indicator of our relationship with this story and this subject. You also mentioned pumpkins, probably because we mentioned Zoran Zivkovic for a reason. So, the stories you're telling today are the same stories that Zoran Zivkovic here climbed on the head of both God and the people for the past two or three years. I remember his story about the glass maker and everything else. A man was advertised via Twitter. Here I am published by the Bulgarian media on the front page. Some tabloids that split the front page in half, so half of them are Zoran Zivkovic, half of them are Bulgarian starlets, and that's your level, I'm finishing the sentence, the seriousness you need to attach to that subject and that man. Speaking of Zivkovic, he said earlier that the planes we're getting from Russia and Belarus are great buckets, which are what people who don't have. If you agree with him on other things, would it be interesting to hear if you agree with him and these planes? That would be very interesting to hear.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-15-1.u58027	Thank you, Dr. Orlic. The word is Veroljub Arsic, right on line. Here you go, colleague Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-15-1.u58028	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, let's clear up some things far more important than an electricity bill that needs to be advertised to whoever betrayed it and out of four or five million, of course it's going to be with a falinka or a mistake, but as far as I know, the biggest tycoons are against this authority. They'd love to be in this power, only we won't. It is not true that some have not already been prosecuted and convicted, we talked about it when we talked about Miskovic. Now whether he was guilty or not, he ordered laws passed by the National Assembly so that in one immoral and unfair way he could come up with enormous property, but how do we punish the MPs for voting in the National Assembly, that is, I think, the biggest problem. As for the closure of banks, according to the law at the time, just to be clear right away, Mladjan Dinkic did not do it himself, there was another team who actually initiated this story - former Minister Bozidar Djelic "the Duke of Meridian Bank" and I do not count how it all went and how it all happened, I even once told my colleague Marijan Risticevic about it, he realized that it was serious but not as serious as it really had big and serious consequences for the entire financial system. What surprises me is that there is always someone who will defend Miroslav Miskovic's character and work and say that he is not the only one to blame. It's not the only fault, but it's one of the most guilty in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-15-1.u58029	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-15-1.u58030	It's not nice for a colleague to say we didn't understand anything earlier. We understand perfectly. We can politically disagree, but we shouldn't be offended. We insist on it, and we do not have the answer, that for the financial and economic downturn of the Serbian state since 2000, they should match the dosmania, they should match the periances of the regime, both Dinkic and Labus and Vlahovic and Djelic, we have not left it out, and anyone else. If that's what Zoran Zivkovic and Marko Markovic and Janko Jankovic say, it doesn't mean that we feel the same way about other issues. We can't now if Zivkovic says that this Bulgarian invested money in the Dragica Nikolic Foundation, let's say - her, we won't now, because he said. What do we care who says? We have our own data and we're saying what we think we should say. Also, to defend a character and the work of Miroslav Miskovic, do not change the thesis. So what we Serbian radicals say cannot be created by the tycoon alone. The tycoon is created by being in a corrupt affair with the highest state officials. And it cannot be answered by Miroslav Miskovic and this Kostic, who is otherwise not responding because he is close to this regime, to certain people, and they cannot answer for themselves because they did not create a corruption affair because they wanted to. They wanted to, but made it possible first of all, when it comes to Miskovic, from Boris Tadic, Djelic, again Dinkic, Labus, Vlahovic. It's a team that has to be mentioned every time you go about corruption. And it has nothing to do with defending someone's character and actions, and I don't even know what that coin means to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-15-1.u58031	Thank you. Marijan Risticevic, replica Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-15-1.u58032	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Arsic, I've made myself clear. So in 2000, the joint criminal enterprise wanted first of all to acquire the property of the company. Banks that had collateral in the economy were eliminated to obtain assets in privatisation. That's what they sold. One more thing. They sold the whole financial market. They sold their savings. So by bringing in foreign banks guaranteed by the domestic state, by eliminating domestic banks, they've acquired the opportunity to issue our money for 10% interest. I'm asking you -- do you think they brought in 11 billion euros for our economy, that foreign domestic bank? Did they give the citizens 8.3 billion of their own capital? Did you give the state 9.5 billion on public debt? A total of 30 billion needed these foreign banks to bring in to share the economy, the state and the citizens. Probably not. They gave us our money, our savings, our deposits, and that's why the joint criminal enterprise earned profits, and that's why Djelic got the right place in a foreign bank for one-off sums and hence the millions of euros in their accounts. Their goal was to get their hands on businesses, to sell savings, to make themselves well-deserved foreign currency, and that's what I was talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-15-1.u58033	Thank you. The word is Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-15-1.u58034	Thank you. Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, respected finance ministers with associates, fellow MPs and MPs, respected Serbian citizens, the Serbian Progressive Party has no dilemma regarding both draft laws, one draft law relating to public debt to foreign savings, another proposal for a convention. Why doesn't SNS have a dilemma? Because the SNS advocates responsible policy. This responsible policy, both for citizens and for the Republic of Serbia, is being implemented by the government, and this is specifically about the Ministry of Finance. First of all, I would like to say, when it comes to the Law on the regulation of the public debt of the Republic of Serbia on the basis of outstanding foreign exchange savings, that the amendments and additions to this law were caused by the reason that foreign currency savings could not obtain valid documentation submitted by the Public Debt Administration in order for the Public Debt Administration to bring relevant solutions relating to foreign savings. Given that these difficulties affecting foreign savings are not due to foreign savings but due to some failures in some former countries of the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, the deadline for reaching a solution is extended to six months. I must point out that only in December 2018 did the Republic of Croatia start issuing valid documents to foreign currency savings, of course, with proof of place of residence, should the Public Debt Administration be handed over. As regards the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, of course, the bill pointed out that there were a lot of difficulties, first because of invalid and invalid certificates, and then with the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Government, or the Ministry of Finance, it entered communication so that since April 2019, there is the possibility for foreign savings and from the areas of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina to obtain valid documents in order to achieve all those rights that belong to them on the basis of foreign savings. Also, I must point out that the bill does not extend the deadline for foreign savings, on the contrary, for a year. Instead of ten half-year wars, eight are now scheduled. The first payment will begin on 28 February 2020 and should be completed on 31 August 2023. This all shows that this government is leading a responsible policy, that this government, of course, must also take care of valid documentation, because this is about funds that will be paid out of the Republic of Serbia's budget by foreign savings and therefore valid documents are needed. As for the other Convention on Mutual Administrative Assistance in Tax Procedures, I must point out that in this way the Republic of Serbia shows that it is entering a circle of countries that have modern democracy, that it is entering a circle of countries which are and that it is taking care of the improvement of the tax mechanism, that it is entering a circle of countries that are no longer on the list when it comes to money laundering and that it is on the list of those countries where preventing terrorism through money laundering, of course, is no longer allowed. This all shows that this government has been in continuity since 2012, and especially since 2014, it has adopted legal solutions that have just prevented such malfeasances and which bring the Republic of Serbia among the countries that are democratically defined, among countries that are also fighting corruption, crime, money laundering and terrorism, among groups of countries that are among the 128 most developed democracies in Europe and the world. By the end of 2019, all instruments and the implementation of the Convention are expected to be laid down, but I will specify something else. Serbia is the fastest growing economy in this part of Europe by 2014. In the past year, Serbia had an economic growth of 4.5%, unlike minus 3.1%, as it was in 2009, the year when we were convinced that the economic crisis was a chance for citizens. The economic crisis was a chance for private pockets of the yellow tycoon company, but the economic crisis was certainly not a chance, but a very great difficulty for the citizens of Serbia. Also, I have to point out that the minimum profit at the time of the government of the yellow tycoon company was 16,000 dinars, today it is 27,200 dinars. Also, I must stress that higher salaries, higher pensions, that public debt from 78% of GDP in 2012 and 2013, has been reduced to 50.2% of GDP, which certainly indicates that Serbia is a country with a fast growing economy. But I have to go back to one example of how media mogul Dragan Solak, who otherwise bought his friend Dragan Gilas, as regards the media sphere and the robbery of the state for media wealth, according to the "Malta Tudej" portal, bought a Maltese passport for 650,000 euros to avoid paying taxes. In fact, Dragan Solak founded the United Media Malta group during 2014 and made income from 2014 to 2015, without any employee, and I must stress this, achieved an income of 6.8m euros, and paid only 27,000 euros in taxes in Malta based on that income. Non-taxation is a felony. The Republic of Serbia, its government, our President Aleksandar Vucic is pushing for a responsible state, for Serbia on the European path, for Serbia in which each citizen will fulfil his legal obligation, which is paying taxes. The fight on corruption, on crime, is permanent and permanent, and it is the point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-15-1.u58035	Thank you very much. The word has been made by Parliamentarian Olivera Pesic. Let MP Sonja Vlahovic be prepared. Olivera Pesic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-15-1.u58036	Thank you, President. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will talk about the draft law confirming the Convention on Mutual Administrative Assistance in Tax Matters. One of the reasons Serbia signs the Convention is to preserve the international reputation Serbia currently has and should and must maintain. Serbia has committed to signing and confirming the Convention by the end of 2019, otherwise the EU Council has warned of the possibility of Serbia being on the list of non-operative jurisdictions in tax matters. The signing, confirmation and deposit of the instruments of confirmation is scheduled to end by the end of August 2019 and the Convention shall enter into force on 1 December 2019. The convention is signed because it is necessary to step up international co-operation, international co-operation, in order to create new rules in the matter of international taxation and administrative co-operation in tax matters, due to large scales of tax evasion and tax avoidance. On the other hand, the fight against tax evasion and tax avoidance does not mean that the basic rights of taxpayers should be neglected, on the contrary, the Convention guarantees the protection of the basic rights of taxpayers. It should be noted that the Republic of Serbia is not able to immediately apply all obligations prescribed in the Convention for the reason that complex technical conditions are needed to meet these obligations, and it is also necessary to provide for an adequate volume of human resources, which Serbia is currently unable to do and for this reason Serbia has used the right given in the Convention itself to put a reserve on the part that it cannot meet. Serbia has used the right to restrict the application of the Convention only to exchange information in the area of corporate income tax and income tax. The methods for the exchange of notifications are the exchange of notices on request, spontaneous exchange and automatic exchange of notifications. Serbia is already exchanging notifications on demand and spontaneous exchanges based on signed contracts to avoid double taxation. However, the signing of this Convention introduces a legal basis for the automatic exchange of notifications. Currently, Serbia is exchanging notifications from 54 countries under the double taxation Treaty, and by signing the convention, the number will increase to 128 countries. I call on Members of Parliament to support the proposals on the agenda today in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-15-1.u58037	Thank you. The word is by MP Sonja Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-15-1.u58038	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, citizens and citizens of Serbia, today we have two laws in the area of finance. The first is the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the regulation of the public debt of the Republic of Serbia on the basis of unpaid foreign currency savings laid down by banks based on the territory of the Republic of Serbia and their branches of the territory of the former republics of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. With this amendment and the addition of the law, we want to enable citizens to recover old foreign exchange savings. We are helping them by doing so because they have a major problem in the collection of documents, especially those documents obtained from the Republic of Croatia and the Federation of BiH. For this reason, we extend their deadline and allow them to file the necessary documentation for six months to submit those reports to damaged citizens, which is also the duty of each country to protect the rights of its citizens. We have over 9,000 such reports and 7,000 do not have the necessary documentation. The Honorable Minister listed everything to us, all of which are from the territory of the former republics. For this reason, today we have a proposal to amend and supplement the law, as I said, because it is the duty of every state, including the Republic of Serbia, to protect the interests of its citizens. The second law before us is the law on the Convention, which is the draft law on the validation of the Convention on Mutual Administrative Assistance in Tax Matters. This Convention was signed in Paris and signed by over 120 countries, exactly 128 countries signed the same and all the most developed countries are signatories and it is an honor to be part of such an agreement, and therefore it is important to improve the transparency of our tax system in our country, as well as to preserve the reputation we have, and we want to maintain at international level. Dear Ministers, you have heard today probably one of the rare phenomena, that the opposition colleague praised the drafts of the law, which is rare for the opposition's MPs. In voting day, of course, I'll vote for both bill proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-15-1.u58039	Thank you. Ljiljana Malusic has the word. Let MP Dragan Veljkovic prepare himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-15-1.u58040	Thank you, Your Honor. Mr. Minister, with the co-workers of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we're talking about two laws today. The first law is on the return of old foreign savings, and the second law is the Convention on Mutual Administrative Assistance. 20/3 BD/MT Serbia is today one of the most respectable countries in the region. Why? Because since 2012, when it was completely devastated, with a debt of 26 billion euros and a minus 3.1%, that was our economic development, it came to a much smaller debt today, because we're returning their unsuspecting interest of 7.8 and 12% and the principal to economic development, plus 4.5. You're Mr. Today's minister, former mayor, one of the best, if not the best ever mayor. You know why? Because you paid back 500m euros in debt to the city, which was in charge of 1.2 billion euros. Mr. Gilas put us in charge of 1.2 billion, and you paid back a debt of 500 million. We've reached Strasbourg. Pensions, over 200m euros, military, you have returned, the government of the Republic of Serbia, of course, to the then prime minister, and then Mr. Vukic, president of this country. Unpaid extras to the kids, you're back. We were returning to pregnant women, 388 million dinars, you returned. I'm sure you'll be the best finance minister, just keep it up, 500m euros while you were, it's certainly still back. I'm proud to talk to you today. Keep up the good work. Of course, since we have a respect in the world that we will return the old foreign savings according to Ms. Emina Alisic, the "Ljubljanska Banka" has been sued, and not only that bank, many others on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. We'll bring back everywhere our branches have been. The Republic of Serbia reacts very quickly, so 130m euros have already been allocated and this law has come as a improvement for our savings, all savings will be compensated. The only problem is that not all of them are currently 9.324 applications, not all of which do not have valid documentation, about 5,300 people have valid documentation, which will be sorted out. That's why we've extended the deadline and that deadline will be extended for another six months, so that all the savings will be able to collect valid documentation to get their foreign savings back. Namely, what else to say about it, yes, deadlines are cut. It was predicted that savings would be paid in 10 wars. Now it will be done for eight wars, by 2024 debts will be paid. However, it is shortened and the debt will be paid by 2023. What does that mean? Just one outstandingly responsible government, we are all a service of local self-government, of the city, through the state, and we will fulfill our promises. That's why we have the ratings we have in Serbia. A few more sentences about the Convention on Mutual Administrative Assistance. Someone said it wasn't good. How is it not good? It should be a completely transparent tax system in Serbia and not only that, but a complete tax system throughout the world. It must be known who does what, whether he pays taxes or not, and not that Mr. Solak, who used to sell tapes, garners a lot of money in Serbia, and pays a tax that's tens of thousands, hundreds of times smaller, but a real tax that he would pay in Serbia, in Malta. Something like that will never happen again. When the Anti-Corruption Agency was there, we all talked about it, so I'm sure everyone for whom there is evidence will be processed. What is very important is that the member states of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation in this Convention have joined as the world's most developed countries and the SNS will vote for both laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-15-1.u58041	Thank you. The word has Dragan Veljkovic, and be prepared Milan Ljubic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-15-1.u58042	Thank you, President. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Public Debt Regulation of the Republic of Serbia on the basis of the unpaid foreign savings of citizens laid down by banks based on the territory of the Republic of Serbia and their branches on the territory of the former republics of the SFRY. It should be recalled that the aim of the adoption of the basic law several years ago was to fulfil the international obligations of the Republic of Serbia from the European Court of Human Rights ruling of 16 July 2014 in the case of Alisic and others against BiH, Croatia, Serbia, Slovenia and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, which refers to the establishment of an old foreign savings mechanism under the same conditions for all foreign currency savings regardless of nationality. That verdict ordered Slovenia and Serbia to take all necessary measures within one year, including legal measures, to restore their savings to all the savings of "Ljubljanska" and "Invest Bank". While Slovenia and Serbia were standing at the point in which foreign currency savings should be depriving the country whose territory was being collected, the other members of the former Federation made a proposal that, before the final agreement, had virtually verified the Strasbourg court to pay the old foreign savings to the country whose territory was the bank's headquarters. This created the obligation of the Republic of Serbia to pay close to 130,000 savings invested in the Investment Bank branch in BiH in an amount of over 310m euros. I say the amount of the contract, given that the exact amount of the obligation will be defined after all applications have been collected. The law stipulates that the obligations of the Republic of Serbia on the basis of unpaid foreign savings will constitute a public debt on the issue of bonds, as well as the dynamics of the payment of bonds to be issued for this purpose in 10 equal half-year wars, starting on 31 August 2019 and ending on 28 February 2023. However, in the implementation of the oral law, objective problems manifested in the inability to save the acquisition of valid documentation by 23 June 2019 have arisen, thus gaining the right to pay off the old foreign currency savings. Namely, evidence that was firstly saved by the Public Debt Administration did not contain all relevant data, i.e. did not contain an essential fact whether the potential savings were partially or fully used in the privatisation process in the Federation of BiH. The removal of this barrier came only in April 2019 when the Federation of BiH Ministry of Finance agreed to establish this fact on the basis of a copy of a single citizens' account issued by the BiH Privatisation Agency. This fact-finding situation has made it impossible for the Public Debt Administration to deliver to the savings all the solutions by the deadline of 23 June 2019, which produced the need to amend the basic law in terms of extending the deadline by six months, i.e. by 23 December of this year. The amendment of the deadline for the determination of this right imposed the need to amend the deadline for the payment of bonds, which was made by amending the provision of Article 5 of the basic law by reaching 28 February and 31 August, starting on 28 February 2020 and ending on 31 August 2023. At the same time, the amendment to that provision refers to the number of semi-annual wars that fall from ten to eight, and all in the direction of efficiency and the realization of the verdict and confirm that this is a legal state that fulfils its obligations under the decisions of the highest court. Although it is a large amount of money, payment of the amount in a manner and by the dynamics established by law will not negatively affect the increase of public debt and other positive macroeconomic parameters. Thanks to the difficult and painful but necessary reforms implemented since 2014, Serbia has achieved positive effects in all macroeconomic indicators. In this context, I point out that public debt, from once close to 80% of GDP, fell to 51%, unemployment was more than halved, from 25 to 11, we have low and stable inflation, as well as a stable rate of dinar, and the largest inflow of foreign, direct investment in the region last year of 3.5 billion euros, and such a trend continued in this year, so 1.2 billion euros was attracted in the first four months, which is 14% more than in this period. Also, a multi-annual budget surplus should be absorbed, as well as for the first six months of this year of 21.6 billion dinars, i.e. around 180m euros, allowing for a new salary increase, as well as higher investment in infrastructure. Thus, the newly created economic environment has produced an improvement in the business environment, which has been recognised by many investors from all over the world, so that dozens of new large companies recognize Serbia as a place where they can feel safe and predictable and where they can find qualified labour and from where they can export to the world. Finally, estimating the justified reasons for amending the proposed law, the SNS parliamentary group will support the bill in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-15-1.u58043	Thank you. The word has Dragan Veljkovic, and be prepared Milan Ljubic. (Alexander Martinovic: He was speaking now.) I'm sorry. The word is Milan Ljubic, and let Jelena Žarić Kovacevic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-15-1.u58044	Thank you, dear Mrs. Gojkovic. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, today we are also talking about the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Regulation of Public Debt of the Republic of Serbia, on the basis of the unpaid foreign savings of citizens laid down by banks whose head office is located in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and their branches in the territories of the former republics of the SFRY. There are not many changes and additions, and I believe that it is good for citizens to repeat exactly what these changes are, therefore, to change the deadlines for the payment of the bonds, more specifically to postpone the start of the deadline for their payment, then to regulate the issue of certificates for banks where the foreign currency savings over which the bankruptcy or liquidation procedure has been completed have been completed. And at the end of the deadline for decision-making of the public debt administration following submissions, the claims are extended until 23 December 2019. It is important to say that the shift of deadlines is due to the inability to save the necessary documentation from the competent authorities in the former republics of the SFRY and thus acquire the right to pay off the foreign savings. It is mainly about certificates that foreign savings have not exercised their rights on the basis of foreign savings, just so they can achieve their right in Serbia. That's why the deadline's moving in six months. Otherwise, it is about financial resources that constitute Serbia's public debt. I will remind you that in May of this year, the IMF and the World Bank have estimated that Serbia has achieved a good result, reducing public debt from 70 per cent of GDP. In 2014, public debt was more than 70% of GDP. So responsible economic policy has produced results. The IMF forecasts also say that GDP per capita in 2023 will be more than $10, compared to $7,200 in 2018, an increase of 44%. When it comes to responsible economic policy, I want to remind myself of the situation that took place in December 2018 that not every country could praise, especially not the state until six or seven years ago, the devasted budget, the unstable financial system and the heavy financial consolidation measures, so in December 2018 we managed to pay off a billion dollars of old debt from savings that we made and not from some new loans, from new borrowings or refinanced loans. Because of the apparent great efforts of the Serbian government and the resolution ministry, which are seen in the reforms in the implementation of the measures, in stabilising finance and in general in the conduct of a responsible fiscal policy, I will also give support to this bill, which is ahead of us, as a form of support, in the day of voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-15-1.u58045	Thank you. The word is Studenka Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-15-1.u58046	Thank you, dear Mrs. Gojkovic. As has already been said, we are discussing amendments and additions to the Law on Public Debt Regulation of the Republic of Serbia on the basis of unpaid foreign exchange savings from citizens, laid down by banks whose headquarters is on the territory of the Republic of Serbia and their branches in the territories of the former republics of the SFRY. Serbia's commitment to pay off the old foreign currency savings stemmed from a European Court of Human Rights ruling that saved it up against most of the former Yugoslavia's republics. However, due to certain problems encountered by citizens of the former Yugoslav republics, linked to obtaining the necessary evidence to exercise the right to pay off the old foreign currency savings, this amendment gives them a longer deadline for completing the documents in order to exercise their rights uninterruptedly. We see here that the biggest problem has arisen in BiH territory, where there are the most registrations for payment, BiH has issued certificates that are not valid because they did not contain data that are relevant for the conduct of the law. To avoid abuse of public debt management, Serbia reacted and agreed with the Federation of BiH Ministry to address these shortcomings. Another major problem arose in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, which with the certification issued only late last year, which did not leave enough time for the savings to complete their documentation. In addition to extending the deadline by six months, Serbia is reducing the number of wars from 10 to eight equal wars in which it will pay off obligations to persons, who, in accordance with the law, exercise the right to pay off old foreign currency savings. This clearly states that Serbia is ready to fulfil its commitment to citizens within a short period of time and that it is fully prepared in terms of financial security which, of course, has been achieved by serious measures and responsible economic policy, and now the state of Serbia is successfully serving all its obligations. The biggest success Serbia has achieved when it comes to the country's fatal borrowing during the former regime is that these formerly expensive loans have been replaced with five times cheaper loans. So, once the interest of 7.25 per cent that the former regime owed us, we swapped the unmatched interest of 1.61 per cent. It is also a historic minimum by which Serbia is in debt. Certainly, if there were no strong debts, which the state is obliged to repay due to the irresponsibility of former leadership, our standard of living would be much better, but although everyone somehow forgets, a lot of state money goes to pay for the disastrous moves of the former government, and then they wonder why we bring them up to evil. But to return to the topic of old foreign savings and to enable citizens to collect the necessary documentation and collect their foreign exchange savings within this extended period. For the sake of these citizens, I will repeat that the Public Debt Administration will decide by 23 December 2019 at the latest to determine the right to pay off foreign exchange savings, and the funds necessary for payment are certainly already the security of the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2019. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-15-1.u58047	The word is "Andrian Avramov." Behind her, Ambassador Zoran Bojanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-15-1.u58048	Dear Chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected fellow MPs and respected citizens, today we have before us a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Debt Regulation of the Republic of Serbia on the basis of foreign currency savings from citizens laid down by banks in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and the former republics of the SFRY. The Serbian Progressive Party respects the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and implements applicable laws in relation to civil, political, economic, social and cultural rights, provided for by international agreements it respects and implements. I would particularly like to highlight Article 1 of this Bill where it is actually reducing the deadline for paying foreign exchange savings from five to three years, starting from February 2020, which is a positive assessment, because the earlier law envisaged that the implementation of foreign exchange savings should start much later and that the process of payment is going on for the next five years, which only tells us that our state Republic of Serbia has opportunities and resources to enable citizens to have a regulated and secure banking system. The Republic of Serbia fulfils its obligations and is zealously taking responsibility for its citizens, as regards foreign savings, right under the regulations and provisions of the European Court of Human Rights. By proper and responsible accession to the bill, the number of half-year payments is reduced from 10 to eight, making it possible for our citizens to pay them faster. I must stress that the realisation of the proposal for this new law was an extremely difficult and complicated procedure, because our citizens, i.e. savings, had to obtain the necessary documentation from the competent institutions in the former republics, in order to obtain the right to pay off foreign currency savings and for this reason the deadline was extended over the next six months for the delivery of the necessary documents. Our Ministry of Finance also met with a number of problems, because unfortunately our citizens did not have complete documentation when applying, where the addition of these was required and that is the only reason why the Ministry of Finance, or the Public Revenue Administration, extends the deadline for paying off our savings. When it comes to banks that are in bankruptcy, liquidation, I would also point out the advantages of the new law's proposal because the state protects the interests of citizens and what belongs to them on the basis that savings can be made through the Public Debt Administration. In the voting day, I will certainly support that law. The improvement and speed of the adoption of laws from different areas is evident, all with the aim of helping our citizens on various issues and enabling the rapid development and progress of the Republic of Serbia. This may not be a topic today, but I must point out, among other things, that the President of France, Mr Emanuel Makron, is coming to visit us today, which is a great honor for the people of Belgrade and, of course, the whole of Serbia. There are currently over 100 French companies in Serbia, which employ around 11,000 workers, and this visit will increase the potential. The biggest investors are French companies, which invested 710m euros in Serbia in 2018. Thanks to our president, Mr. Alexander Vukic, Serbia is on the path of economic and political transformation and this historic visit by President Makron, it is expected to sign 25 contractual agreements from different areas, which will certainly contribute to new investments and which speaks of stronger and greater support for France on the European path. We were able to create a stimulating environment thanks to economic prosperity and create new opportunities for everyone. This is accompanied by visits to our Serbia and other high-ranking officials and world leaders, such as Russian President Mr Putin, China President Mr Si Jinping, Chancellor Angela Merkel, Prime Minister of Japan, President of Israel, many leaders of Scandinavian countries, Belgian Prime Minister, Prime Minister of Italy, was also visited by the president of Italy and representatives of the entire region. These historic visits are the results of continuous work and reforms carried out over the past years. For all foreign investors, a financially stable and friendly environment is important, and for every commendation is what Serbia has done so far in the field of finance. Since the SNS has been in power, it has been noticeable how many senior officials from Europe and the world have come to our Serbia for an extremely short period of time. This way we want to remind our citizens that we are working in the interests of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, to think about the future of our children, to fight for the truth and to fight those who have left us with debts and an empty state register. The people see everything, it's no accident that it's defined for the SNS and our president, because we show results and respect the only truth. In my presentation, as a folk MP, here I will finish, I ask for silence, please, if it is not a problem, in my presentation, as a MP, I would like to highlight the unselfish support of the President of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Alexander Vukic, Prime Minister Ana Brnabic and all ministers. Long live Serbia, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-15-1.u58049	Thank you, MPs. The word now has MP Zoran Bojanic and after him, Milimir Vujadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-15-1.u58050	I thank the esteemed president. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, we have two bill proposals, which define something that we long ago drew, and which are in the spirit of what Aleksandar Vukic started seven years ago and what he consistently implements both this government and this assembly majority, that Serbia respects the commitments undertaken and that Serbia is taking great steps towards improvement and prosperity. Today, we have heard the presentations of some of our colleagues, who are afraid of the EU, perhaps Serbia will be an EU member, and may not. No one knows now, but we need to accept to take over everything good, what will bring prosperity, what will bring improvement to us, to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I think that these two bill proposals are also in this spirit and in this way and through these two laws we will also bring new investors, we will bring, although some are looking forward to no meaning at this moment about "Folkswagen", we will bring in another producer, because everyone recognizes Serbia, as one serious state, as a country that respects and takes over. Had it been luck, as counterpart Arsic said in his presentation, if we had signed this Convention a long time ago, before these tycoon and thieving privatisations, we probably wouldn't be going back to re-industrialisation for so many years, we wouldn't be opening factories now. Unfortunately, many of the factories we had were choked and extinguished by others. I won't be long because there are a lot of colleagues behind me and we're busy working hours. In voting day, in any case, support these legal proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-15-1.u58051	Thank you very much. The word is Milimir Vujadinovic, followed by MP Aleksandar Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-15-1.u58052	Thank you, President. Dear colleagues, distinguished ministers with associates, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, when we talk today about this law on moving deadlines when it comes to paying off old foreign currency savings, two things are imposed as crucial, at least in one of my views. This is primarily about keeping an eye on the needs of savings, but also on meeting, to say, some international obligations of the Republic of Serbia and keeping account of the international reputation and reputation of the Republic of Serbia. That, however, is somewhere on the trail of the general state policy, which even in 2014, was promoted by President Aleksandar Vukic, and since that period, man and his basic needs have been placed at the heart of state affairs, while returning the reputation of the Republic of Serbia to the world. Is there any greater confirmation of this, besides this law that you today explain to this distinguished home, today's visit to the French President, Mr. McCron? It is not the only one lately, remember that the Republic of Serbia has been visited by all the important representatives of major forces in the world, and coming to the Republic of Serbia now as equal conversants and equal partners, unlike that period until 2012, when we were in fact just the executioners of the duties of ambassadors and some of the lower officials of those same countries. In any case, I repeat again, it is good that you continue with this policy of restoring the international reputation of the Republic of Serbia and I think that is enough. Also, another reason, I will point out, reading the explanation is very easy to see that all problems, when it comes to the return of old foreign currency savings, are driven by the inability to obtain documentation before the authorities, above all in Croatia and BiH. Laik, reading this explanation, can determine that problems with the Republika Srpska either do not exist or are minimal. It is, in fact, the confirmation of a political claim that these relations with the Republika Srpska have probably never been as productive and as good before. These are all the reasons why, I say again, we will support in the day to vote this legislative proposal. It won't be any different when it comes to this law, the tax aid law, i.e. administrative assistance in tax matters with 127 countries in the world. I have listened carefully, Minister, to your opening statement and I have carefully read the reasoning of the law, it is clear that it is a fight against terrorism, it is a matter of preventing money laundering, of reducing some tax evasion, and if, ultimately, you will be fighting tax evasion. No one with a sound mind can be against it today, and I think it's quite clear what it's all about. But I have a dilemma on my own, and they impose it on me from the past days and the past months. Perhaps you, Mr. Minister, can help me and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to drive away ours and to resolve our curiosity, and the question is, will such a legislative proposal, Mr. Minister, contribute to the solution to the dilemma of how and how millions arrived in Serbia, such as Mr. Dragan Gilas, who, according to the latest information, were acquired in the Czech Republic? How did millions, Mr. Vuk Jeremic, arrive in Qatar and some other countries? With that in mind, we hope that this Convention will in some way contribute to such and such things in the future not happening, and yet I say that in the voting day we will certainly support these legislative proposals, because they are a reflection of the state's struggle to introduce order in general in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-15-1.u58053	Thank you. The word is from Ambassador Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-15-1.u58054	Thank you, Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Parliament. You are ministers, but also the authorised representative of the SNS, Mr Arsic, presented all the reasons why we should adopt the proposed legislative acts, which achieve the objectives and what is most important which are the benefits specifically for the citizens of Serbia that this law will produce. The fact that we have not heard or object to the proposed solutions in the debate so far suggests that we should adopt these draft laws and the SNS parliamentary group will certainly vote for these laws. Those who are not at this session today, in this debate, those who are otherwise not interested in nor the laws that are in the domain, let me say, public finances, but not the other topics which have been the subject of assembly discussions in recent months, they will, of course, continue at press conferences or through press releases or various performances, etc. They are trying to challenge the results so far of both the Serbian Government and you personally ministers and, of course, Alexander Vukic. They'll keep trying to claim that white is not white and black is not black. He will try to imagine that the average salary of 320 euros or less, as it was in their time, is actually more than 460 euros, as it is today. In that and that position, 320 is greater than 460. He's going to try to imagine that minus 3.1% of GDP is greater than the plus we're in today, plus 4.5%, when it comes to economic growth. And for them it's bigger, not less. And they'll convince us how true it is, how true it is. They will try to imagine that it is better to have zero built highways, as zero is much larger than 450 built miles of highways. In their Serbia, it is possible, zero, to be greater than 450. And all the other results achieved by both the Serbian government and Aleksandar Vukic, not to count now, but also the inflow of foreign direct investment and the reduction of public debt and tax collection that is on record and the reduction of unemployment, we even remember what percentages they were when they were leading the state, so 25, 26%, today I mean even below 12%, maybe 11%, and all the other results. Of course, ministers will continue to make up all kinds of fictions about you and the other members of the government and about Alexander Vukic, who will be generating various affairs, especially when they find themselves in an unexplainable situation, when they have no answers to their affairs, then they will continue to produce some affairs when it comes to government members, just as it is today when it comes to Interior Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic. Gilas, when he doesn't know how to provide appropriate answers to some very simple questions, which is -- how did you, my friend, manage to earn 25m euros in a decade, as much as I admit to owning, only in real estate, if we know that while you were allegedly rich working in the Czech Republic, you earned 74,000 euros there, and you just didn't spend any of that in the Czech Republic, he could bring 74,000 euros to Serbia, and how do you have 25m euros today? I don't see why it's a complex and complex and complicated question. It's a very simple question, you need a simple answer, but there's no answer. But that's why we have the factory of various affairs. The same thing when it comes to the authorial text of the president of Serbia that caused an incredible amount of anxiety, an incredible amount of hysteria in some media, I mean on TV N1, I mean the daily "Today". The daily "Today" actually stopped being a daily paper long ago, he turned into the DS political bulletin, or the Alliance for Serbia, call it whatever you want. Kuso and repato rose after Vucic's text, one text, and the haika they lead against Alexander Vukic is talking about the impotence and false elite against Vucic's truth that he gave in that text, the truth that they have been dividing the Serbian people into so-called for decades. the elite and the common people. To avoid debt, due to the time of the parliamentary group, there are many speakers left, I would like to point out that the SNS will vote in favour of the proposed legislative act in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-15-1.u58055	Thank you. The word is Marko Atlagic. Here you go, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-15-1.u58056	President-in-Office, Mr. Minister of Cooperation, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is good that this law is ahead of us on the regulation of the public debt of the Republic of Serbia on the basis of the unpaid foreign savings of citizens laid down by banks whose headquarters is located in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and their branches in the territories of the former republics of the SFRY. Let me immediately say that the change is more technical, since we've passed this law already last year, and it's about moving deadlines. In fact, on 21 June this year, the deadline for delivery of a solution by the Public Debt Administration expired. Since most of the savings were not able to obtain documentation, the deadline shifted until 23 December 2019, and the first tranche of savings should be received on 28 February 2020. However, that is why foreign savings are not paid in 10, but in eight wars, and I think that the state has acted correctly towards foreign savings. But, Mr. Minister, I'm pointing to one problem here. Since I was in charge of a group of savings from the former Republika Srpska, and it is the Yugoslav Split, a subsidiary of Knin, there are not many of them, since Croatia gave foreign currency savings from that Yugoslavia, but not to the Serbs, because it was short-term when they could not return to the Republic of Croatia. What's the problem now? At one small number, and these are fighters from the first battle line. How? By leaving their books or cards at home. The house burned down and the book was burned down. However, they have confirmations from the South Bank, i.e. heirs, legal successors of the South Bank or legal followers, and I think we should respect them here, so that they don't have the fate of former Balkan war fighters, the First and Second World War, so that they don't demotize eventually in future, don't God, wars of fighters etc. I think it's objective circumstances and it's supposed to take account. What I want to say today, which is that the former regime did not take care of the old foreign savings, even though we in this high house have encouraged even these problems several times. For this reason, the honourable presidents and ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I here today in front of the citizens of Serbia and in front of you am pressing charges against a joint criminal enterprise which has led to bankruptcy by Serbia's economic, industrial, infrastructure-distributing and bankrolling. I am raising the indictment today against Dragan Gilas, in the people called Điki Mafia; Vuk Jeremic, one of the leaders of the international gang of thieves and frauds; Janko Veselinović, in the people of the village of Djika, was stealing apartments, the very word of everyone talking about them; Boška Obradović, called Boško Rapovalje; Dušan Petrovic, called in the people of Dula Kravoubica, the one while the minister of agriculture ordered to slaughter 250,000 cows from the total fund of 500,000 as many as the Republic of Serbia had; Marinika Tepić, a dove flyer, the one known to the people of the town of Djak, the latter to the people, the latter to the other people, and because of the crime he committed, while he was a regional secretary for education and culture; Milojko Tepić, in the people called the mad, the people of Milojko, the formerlyko, the people of the town of Zago, the town of Zago, the formerly, the formerly, the people of Zago, the formerly, the people of the people of Zago. I am handing over the indictment, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, to you, in the next elections, to chase political history from which I hope for Serbia's happiness will never return. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-15-1.u58057	Since no word has been reported on the lists of parliamentary groups, I ask if anyone per article 96. Rules of Procedure, does he want a word? The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-15-1.u58058	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, I will try to be brief and I think it's high time we agreed on committees and MPs and the Ministry and Government to regulate the debt of farmers to PIO and health insurance. To get rid of at least the accumulated interest because that's how much debt they can't pay, and the other because of that debt they're out of our system. So due to the debt, the old debts now have less and less health insurance from the village, we have an increasing payment in PIO insurance. We're going to get some money, and we're going to get the ones who're going to pay the contribution again. As for aid on tax matters, I ask you to ask Malta, Holland, Luxembourg, for United Group and United Media, two interlinked companies, one registered in the Netherlands, the second in Luxembourg. In fact, you know that Telekom, who occupys 30% of the media market, is paying into the budget of the Republic of Serbia 150m euros. You also know, by 2015, the United Group probably doesn't pay anything. So, there's no profit at all, it falsifies losses and thus avoids tax obligations that weigh tens of millions of euros. All that we give to the previous one for savings, we can make up for everything by charging the taxes to the School that bought Falcon, I mean the burden of subscribers and taxpayers in Serbia. They have 900 thousand subscribers and money from subscriptions pump across fake cross-border channels that are registered fictitiously in Luxembourg, paying several euros per user for these false cross-border, pirated channels that are not registered here, are fictitiously registered in Luxembourg, not re-emissioning the programme, but broadcast it from Serbia. So that money leaks from the Republic of Serbia and you are certainly aware that the "BC partners" bought SBB, bought United Group for 2.6 billion. Which Western company, which is the investment fund, can pay the loser 2.6 billion? Only one who knows how to pump money can pay it, and Gilas, Solak, David Petres, former head of the CIA, knows what they're doing, and for this mutual help, I expect you to ask Luxembourg, ask Holland, do these cross-border channels even broadcast a program in Serbian and how much money is being fired from Serbia on fake pirate, cross-border channels, and then we'll know where the millions of Gilas and Solaku are coming from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-15-1.u58059	Thank you. According to Article 98(4), Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the Joint Chief's single search on the draft laws referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 of the agenda. I thank the Minister of Finance, Sinishi Malo and his associates for participating today in the debates. As the guest of the Republic of Serbia is today President of the Republic of France, Mr. McCron and all ministers have certain protocol and official obligations, we will continue to work, discuss the second set of laws, tomorrow at 10.00 p.m. Thank you.
